ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 195 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that there are 191 MPs present in the hall. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Miodrag Jaćimović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Stanko Kovacevic, and Stevan Lilić will be late. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement "Resist", the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and the representatives of USAID to this session. I welcome the guests present. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I convened the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2002 within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly, to bring the 2003 budget of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the deadlines set out in the Budgetary System Act. You were presented the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 3 December 2002. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, in particular 210 MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered, in writing, any objections to the minutes of the previous session. I am voting on the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 3 December 2002. For 157 against 22, the abstentions were not voted 39, out of the 218 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, held on 3 December 2002. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. We move to a decision on proposals for an urgent procedure. First, the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the National Assembly put the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2000, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2002, on the agenda. I propose that this bill be considered the first item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 164, there are no 23 abstentions, no 38 votes, of the total of 225 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget as the 1st item of the agenda. Secondly, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2002. I propose that this bill be considered a 3rd item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 163 against 61, the abstentions did not vote 2, of the total of 226 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 as the 3rd item of the agenda. Third, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put on the agenda a bill on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in profit and sales tax in 2003, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2002. (Glasses: What's that point in order? I put this proposal to the vote. For 162 against 60, the abstentions were not voted 4 out of the 226 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax in 2003. Fourthly, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly put on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2002. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 163 against 58, the abstentions were not voted by 6, of the 227 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. Fifth, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda a bill on telecommunications, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2002. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 109 against 110, abstention 2 did not vote 5, of the total of 226 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. The sixth, MP Ivan Andric, suggested that the National Assembly put on the agenda a proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of Sremski Karlovac, who submitted to the National Assembly on 6 December 2002. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 158, no one with abstentions voted 66 out of the 224 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure shall be included in the agenda of the meetings in accordance with their proposal, or acceptance, and shall be submitted by the committees responsible, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, to their reports or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of the emergency motions, I would like to ask the MPs to come forward on the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 161 versus 59, the abstentions were not voted 5, out of a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly of Most Votes established the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda and hand it over to the MPs. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a FINISH ACCOUNT OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2000. YOU have received the bill, with contributions and a report on the finding of financial and material business control and the legal and dedicated use of funds intended to finance public expenditures of ministries, republican authorities, organisations and funds from 1996 to 1999, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, is five hours, and that the time is allocated by parliamentary groups, a relatively large number of MPs that the parliamentary group has. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to prepare and hand over the list of registered speakers, according to this agenda item. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposalor's representative, finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24582	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, by opening this package of budget laws, I think it is appropriate to start with the final budget account in 2000. That law was in front of this house last year. At that point, however, most DOS and DSS MPs asked for the law to go to work, not because the law itself was incomplete, but because most MPs wanted to complete the budget inspection report for 2000, as was the case at that time. It was extended to several years before that and to initiate some procedures on the findings of the budget inspection. After that, the Ministry and the Government acted on that request from the National Assembly, and this report is complete, and today it is before you. I would just like to say, it seems to me that this final account and this discussion -- if last year and this year, through several laws, we have a lot of and less heated discussions on the revenue side, and the vote of the Law on the Budgetary System in February of this year by this esteemed home and this debate on this six-point six-point budget package -- this way, we will turn one very important side to the history of Serbia's public finances, make this whole business serious, lead to much better spending from the state register and much more responsibility for those who do so. Before I enter the core of this proposed law, I would like to point out a little more precisely how we got to this text that is before you and what it contains. It has a final budget account in 2000, as well as an additional budget inspection report for the years 1996 to 1999, which you requested. Also, during this discussion today, you will be presented with what you adopted last time the debate took place, and this report on the budgetary inspection for 2000. With this final account, the report of the budgetary inspection for the period from 1996 to 1999 and this text that you have already adopted and which will be redistributed to you, and the budget inspection reports for 2000, we will have a pretty clear picture of public finances from 1996 to 2000. In February 2001, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to carry out a budget inspection and to be introduced parallelly while preparing the final budget bill for 2000. There were good reasons for that. The first reason was because there were a lot of stories that there was unintended and illegal spending and it was important to come to those necessary facts, so that it could be better judged. That's why about 50 specialists were hired, almost all former SDKs, as we say, because in the ministry itself we found a situation that was extremely devastating. There were only four budgetary inspectors and these people had never had training, they had neither basic equipment, nor computers, nor vehicles, and even less had the support to work their crafts. If we look at what the plan was for these budgetary inspectors to work, then we see that they never went into control of any major budget users. Their work mainly consisted of controlling some municipalities, not entering some political motives, especially those that won the opposition after the 1996 elections. Thus, it was necessary to complete those lines and it was done with that conclusion. That team was working. Here I want to publicly thank Mr. Radmil Nikodivic, who was assistant director of the Federal Customs Administration when Mr. Curtis became director. He resigned five weeks later because he didn't want to cover all the things that the director wanted him to do. It's one of the most frequent people I've ever met in Serbia. I'd like to thank you publicly, since he's been working and helping for a year and a half, and the only reason why he's not assistant today for budget inspection is his age, he's 68 years old. Some law says you cannot be an assistant in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry about that, and I want to thank him publicly here in front of everyone for his tremendous effort and especially his great courage, because it took courage at various times when this inspection was carried out. Secondly, what I'd like to say is that when you see how this budget inspection is prepared, we have to say that we can't expect some results from it, as some well-established and well-trained, supportive budget inspections. What we're going to talk about today really shows that public finances absolutely didn't have a degree of transparency, there wasn't enough control, there wasn't enough discipline in the way it was spent from the state register. Today we're going to talk about the final bill for 2001, and that's where we're going to see that between 2000 and 2001, there hasn't been a sudden perfection, but huge progress has been made, and that's what we're going to talk about when the time comes and when it comes to the agenda, as the second point of the agenda. What I'd like to say is, in public finances, the best thing to do is to reflect the devastation of this society, the destruction that was of a financial nature, but I would also like to talk about the destruction that was of a moral nature. Let me start with what's financially ruined. That's why I'd like to start my presentation on the final account issues and see what happened in that state register in 2000, against what was budgeted. That would be the first part of my exposure. Then I'd like to give a few precisions about what the effects of this budget inspection are and finally, say a few words about the status of the procedures that have been initiated by this case, in those three parts. The first thing we have to figure out is that the budgets adopted by this assembly in the 1990s have been increasingly less and less credible images of our country's public finances. For what? For many reasons, but two are crucial. The first reason is because, over time, various special, special accounts were opened, sometimes by the decision of this home, but very often by the executive decision. So, executive power, the government would decide to make one special account, to cut the tax, fee, or any other tax, and to pour that money into one account that wasn't under the control of the Assembly, or was the subject of a budget discussion, or was the subject, as I just said, of budgetary inspections and at least some final account. In 2000, the amounts on these special accounts were as much as 16% of the total revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Another key reason why it was very difficult to control this budget was because a very rusty practice -- compensation -- was established. Compensation is often a necessary evil in non-prudential economies and in non-prudential public finances, when some entities to whom the state owes, and they owe the state, want to beat up in bilateral relations, as we say, those debts. If the old debts that the state has according to these companies are beaten for some of the old obligations that these companies have towards the state, to some extent, it is the recognition of the failure of the entire system and the lack of liquidity. However, when there is one situation where, in the 2003 budget, as many as 23% of the Republic's total revenues are settled through compensations, this means that the current commitments of businesses and citizens are not settled in cash, but this settles some of the debts that the state is often justified, but often, as we will see in the debate), absolutely unwarranted rules towards these companies, and so much less money has been made to settle everything that was drawn up in the law itself. It was not possible to pay with these papers or pensions, or child benefits, or anything necessary for the functioning of our state bodies. So this picture that we tried to complete in the final account, and that's why you have a lot of careful reports about these special accounts, is simply one devastating picture of public finances, which have been dissociated. The third thing, which is necessarily mentioned, is that even in cases where something was going through the account, it happened in the 1990s inflation, so on. purpose taxis and taxes and thus our public finances of 3% of rail sales tax were destroyed, 0.15% of what should be a financial transaction tax was a payment tax. In a series of budget users, they tried to separate themselves from that unique cash register, from which they all needed to settle for the same archaic, so there was a great inequality in the way some commitments were settled. Some who would be "boxed", as the people say, for some privileged positions and some dedicated fees, the purposes (and you see it in the final account) would be fully settled, while those who should live, and mostly those who receive pensions, those who need to receive social benefits, were never united enough, nor strong enough to receive these special taxes and their needs would always be respected in a far smaller amount. Hence, there is a profound injustice in such a way as to run public finances. And let's look at the same way that that budget was drawn up. At the moment he was voted at the end of December, we can see that there is no full amount planned for all that is necessary. Let's take a look at the assumptions first. They were extremely unrealistic. One growth in social product was projected by 14%, and it was 5.9%. And what was extremely devastating, because it was trying to cover up the reality of public finances that were in ruins and that were unable to settle what was laid down by law, it was written that inflation would be zero percent, and we know that it was 116% in 2000. In this way, it was tried to conceal what was reality, which is that these public finances initially did not foresee in any case in this law as much as it took to settle even 12 pensions, let alone children's allowances and much else, allegedly by law and by some social care, which were filled with mouths to those who were leading the country at that time; the funds were not simply provided. The last thing I'd like to mention is, some might say -- budget techniques, but that's extremely important. That year was the last year when practice, a very rusty, extended budget year applied. That way, the budget was shown as a balance, without deficits, but of course it wasn't true and for two reasons. The first reason is because in this budget, as you can see, it was reached in January the month of the revenue that was due for the financial year, at the expense of the 1999 budget. In this way, it was tried to cover up the deficit that existed in the state register, as some expenditures for December 1999 would be offset by incomes normally charged with the 2000 budget. So it was moving into a losing race and something that could never have been balanced, patched up and covered up what didn't want to be publicly and clearly covered up, that the budget wasn't in balance. Another way to hide that hole in the budget, which had no other cover than printing money, as it was finally seen, is by creating so-called. quasifiscal deficits. The whole story remains to be told: about the stock reserves, about the public enterprises, about a thousand ways in which the management of public finances tried to cover up a sad story and a picture of what was going on in the public register. For example, bonds are issued which need to be accepted by the EPS without ensuring that the state-guarantee company needs money to settle these bonds. Bonds for children's allowances are issued without the provision of a paragraph on the bulky side in order to settle these bonds; in this way head is placed in the sand and the truth is not told to this home and our people the situation in public finances. To conclude this: this final account is the last of this type, and I am convinced of that, thanks to the various laws that this esteemed home has also voted on other practices that are being established. This is the last budget, as this final account shows, which is incomplete, non-transparent, unreliable, and which in the beginning lies to those who need to live off the budget. With this practice, I sincerely hope we're at a crossroads, no matter who's in the government, no matter who's in the Assembly, no matter who's in the Ministry of Finance, I'm deeply convinced of it. That's why I want to believe, and I'm personally convinced that it's one of the last final accounts of this guy we see. It's about the first part of my presentation, where I wanted to show why the final account itself when it shows the elements and here we see that actually the budget when he voted in no way could be respected. And it's no surprise that when there's been a change and the transitional government has looked at what's going on in that register, it's suddenly found that it's 36 months late for paying off farm pensions, that it's two years late for paying off child benefits, that it's late for a variety of social benefits, and that that year it's hard for the pension to go on in time, because it just wasn't real, it wasn't fair, it wasn't transparent, it wasn't complete and it was built so that it couldn't be respected. However, if everything were to come down to it I would say that it could be a partial element of some practice, an element of the difficult moments our country was going through, especially in 1999; but on the other hand (and this is the second part of my exposure) the budgetary inspection, as I described it, showed an additional picture of these public finances. We're already talking about something here, if this first point was showing one financial breakdown, this second point will also show a moral breakdown in our country. What's this about? First of all, I would like to say that one such budget inspection cannot be taken as a budgetary inspection that gave the last and final picture of what was happening in the state register from 1996 to 2000. For what? First because of the resources we've had to carry out that budget inspection. That wasn't enough. Simply, the deadlines, the scope and the method that's called the jump choice, which tries to go where the biggest budget users are, and then tracks some possible abuses that have been detected, all the way to that ultimate element when evidence comes and what can form a reasonable doubt that there are abuses, in no case can be considered a budget revision. The first real audit of any budget will win the prized home for the 2001 budget. It is up to you to adopt the decision the Government has proposed and to choose an independent auditor to submit to you, not to the Government, a report on the way the 2001 budget was spent. If we look at the year 2000 and the year before, it's the subject of this united budget inspection, we realize that such a budget inspection is not equipped enough, it's not experienced enough, it's not valid enough to form a further procedure. It has encountered a potential basis for abuse and non-intentional spending of 1,076.000,000 German marks, if we speak in this currency that no longer exists, but which is still very present in our country. If we look at what the main items are, then we realize that almost all the species you can imagine are present in a non-intentional and illegal spending out of some budget register. I would just like to mention a few of those elements that came up with that total picture of, like, a billion German marks or 500,000 euros. We counted in that currency, because in dinars it totals 15.34 billion dinars, but given inflation and devaluation, we wanted to show in that currency what the amount of these funds is. Of these billions of Markanena's fixed funds are 322.7 million marks, non-purposely spent solidarity funds are 43 million marks, illegally used funds are 224.65 million marks, illegally implemented compensations, which I spoke about earlier, amount to 105.9 million marks. Unpaid revenues made by the authorities by doing their work - 206.4 million marks, unpaid taxes and contributions - 38.9 million marks, illegal disarmament and placement of funds in business banks - 56.6 million marks, illegal borrowing of the ministry in business banks - 74.4 million marks. If we look at various aspects of non-purpose and illegal spending, we see that the state register was spent not only without sufficient control, but was spent as if it were either a private or a party or a minister's register, and those laws that existed were not respected. I'd just like to point out that of these different visions, because some of them are still current, I want to set out a few of these aspects. The first thing that is extremely important and that is in absolutely all budget inspections, it was that there was not a single body that had neat books. There was nowhere to be recorded in time, there was no record of debt and liabilities, there was absolutely no record of property and inventory, no record of those things that should be returned to the budget. It means that there was no necessary discipline and law enforcement in any domain. Not to mention that many authorities would never adopt their financial plan, as they had to do, not to mention that many officials, including officials, took great freedoms to manage what was collected from our citizens. One example is how business banks were handled. In the 1990s and from that unfortunate day when it was announced to generations of our savings that what they've been saving for years is worth just as much paper on which their savings book was written, from that moment on, trust in our banks has been completely destroyed. Thus, savings in dinar amounts in banks were reduced to almost nothing. Our people immediately wanted to get money in cash, turn it into a solid currency, and there was no trust. Thus, almost the only funds, the only deposits in the dinars available, were public revenues. By the law, in this way, one number of business banks, and the other one did not, received a large amount of so-called deposits. A huge battle, nothing regulated, and even when it was regulated, nothing respected, where many authorities were giving and disarming their funds, often without any disarmament, in the light of the current deposit -- and indeed, without any interest, that money would lie on those accounts, so that these same authorities would then receive loans with absolutely market interest from these same business banks. When you look at it, it's not complicated at all. It's sucking up state money that in no way should serve to give potential to business banks, and then pay interest on that. It's not just bad governance of public finances, it's sucking up state money in favour of business banks. I have to say, it even happened that the budget was giving loans without interest to some banks. For example, the Užička banka. To this day that money is not returned, because that bank is bankrupt. Or, Karic banka, which later became the Astra Banka, which in the process returned, faster -- better, six million dinars that were borrowed without interest. When it came to control, they were returned. You have a large number of cases that some official has allocated funds to a bank, and then he has some privileges for his institution. It's on the investigation to determine if there were any other privileges in that domain. Another way I'd like to present to this esteemed home is how it was treated by some basic means. We also have an example that the Ministry of Education bought a passenger car, paid out of the budget, and that that car was never transferred to the property of the Republic. On the contrary, she would later be enrolled in a youth cooperative, a student standard. After that, in order for the irony to be as great as possible, the services of this cooperative would be charged to that ministry, to use those cars and that driver, and the cars were purchased by our country's funds. Not to mention, at the Ministry of Finance, there was a liter of fuel, a price bill without any comparison with possible mileage. Not to say that for many official travels, no documentation has ever been provided to confirm that these trips existed. Not to mention that it's an illegally funded journey abroad from some Sports Society "Military" and that you give foreign exchange logs to people who were in no way state officials. Not to mention, in many ways, what should be a normal day of work has come to many, there and there, smaller, here and there, more extensive, abuse. One more thing I'd like to mention, it's that there were some weird transactions. I'd like to give just one example here. This is how one villa in Tolstoy 4 became the private property of a retired Yugoslav Army general, who signed the Kumanski Agreement in just a few months. A few weeks later, he got what was then taken as property of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as a multi-room apartment, which was headed to about 200 square meters. After that, the Republic Property Directorate decided to do works on the facility, and it was not allowed to operate without a tender, some 17,5 million dinars, I think at that time there were several million marks, about two or three million marks. Works to improve the facility were received by the Colling firm, which, as everyone knows, was the former finance minister's firm. Not only was this paid out of Serbia's budget register, but it was then the property of the federal republic, but later, there were various annexes of these works that were not only paid, but they were overpaid, and that the difference had never returned. Of course, while the works were being performed, it was found that the facility did not have 200 and change squares, that it was not an apartment, but a villa of 700 squares. In this way there was privatisation of state property, there was non-intentional spending. To make the irony even bigger (and let that be one example of how, when desired, anything can be done), that money was taken from the funds allocated to the municipalities. So, instead of making an additional 17,5 million dinars that year into the necessary, urgent obligations and needs of our citizens in local self-government, one retired general had multimillion-dollar equipment for his villa and in December of that year he got that villa as a private property. The last example I'd like to give is an example that, I may say, surprised me personally. I expected there to be some abuses, but in one period, especially 1998/1999. year, there's been a direct funding of political parties from the state register, and it's on the jury account, it's just been hard to expect. Anyway, it was SPS financing. I'd like to give some examples. For example, we have on the side of the labour market, payment of funds in 1998/1999. the years to the city board of the SPS, as well as the "Club S"; we have the payment of the Republic Health Service, they, of course, were from the funds they were supposed to go to treat our citizens, buying apartments for leading people in that facility, and there will be only stories about it, with multimillion dollars. They also paid interest to the ICN Galenici, and the money that was to be paid was paid in advance. So there was no base to pay that interest. They also gave, at the moment when our health care was nudged in debt, in shortness, 8.1 million dinars of donation to the "S" group. Also, in this case, the Dedinje Clinical Centre, led by Mr. Bojic, has advertised on Radio "S", with an amount of 3.8 million dinars. I could take a long time. We've got dozens of examples. Here's another example: The Republic Public Revenue Administration, right after the bombing, rented a large business space in the CK - Ustaste building; that's where we see that it's a fictitiously funded political party, because the money paid to the SPS was paid for by one facility for which everyone, unfortunately, knew that it was bombed and that it was absolutely unusable. The same thing happened at the center of Kragujevac, and I'm not talking about how the Republic Public Revenue Administration has repeatedly paid political officials, who haven't spent a single day at work. As far as I'm concerned, for example. The environment ministry, they bought from the country's central Serbian Radical Party a large number of books that had absolutely nothing to do with environmentalism, at prices that were everything but market ones. The question is, why do you need an ecological theory of statistics, by a few thousand dinars per sample? Or why has the Ministry of Trade been paid to a jury account for some alleged services of the country's central Serbian Radical Party? The final example is that all this is heavy matter and that it reflects that there is one number of those who should lead the country in the interests of citizens, not in the interests of their parties and in their own personal interests, for their villa, for their apartment, for their standard of living. When the Board of Revenue, confiscate cigarettes or alcohol, why does it spend it on its own personal needs, rather than paying into the budget, for example, why does the science budget, what's going on as a juice, actually be a vine and used for party gatherings? Anyway, let's take one last example, and that's how 2.2 million dinars were found for So Frog, where one home was to be built for Japanese pensioners. When Serbian pensions were delayed, that money was paid, never returned, and, of course, the first brick of that retirement home was not set up. If it weren't for that serious matter, this would be a matter we could discuss for hours. In any case, I'm not suggesting that the situation in these finances is absolutely perfect now, but it's clear that it's broken down with this practice. So much for the second part of my exposure. I just want to say that the defeating image that comes out of all of this, and the further procedure will determine whether these amounts were the ones found by the budget inspection, but by procedure it had to turn on official duty; we are talking about billions of German marks, about the abuse from 1996 to 2000, and it reflects both morally, not only financially, the destruction of the state summit and the way our country was led. Everything except in the interest of our citizens, everything except in the interest of those who may be at the most difficult moments, in the 20th century for the Serbian people. At some point, some of them paid as much taxes, and that economy that was sanctioned; that's how the state business was done and how money was spent. In the last part, I would like to mention the question asked by many MPs and especially the Finance Committee, and last year the Assembly also asked that procedures be initiated to name the persons and to do something about it. The Finance Committee also asked for a report, which would be individual and which would show what the procedures were and how far they had arrived. I just want to say that the results of the budget inspection are the following -- 41 criminal charges against the 91 responsible person have been filed so far, 50 applications for business crimes against 207 responsible persons, 16 criminal charges against 26 responsible persons. It's a start. I think the further procedure will expand some of these items and I don't think that's going to be a final number. Some of these procedures will be suspended, two of them have already been suspended, because there was not enough evidence, but I expect that a large number of them will be extended. Before I give you a few details, I'd say last week there was a lot of speculation in the media -- who, how long? I just want to say that there was no vengeful spirit in the process of budgetary inspection; neither is she, nor am I personally in charge of calling anyone. We need to get used to budgetary inspection by its findings, at the moment when it comes (in accordance with its way of work and regulation) to elements that can lead to a reasonable suspicion that there was an offence, a crime or a criminal offence, by official duty, initiating the procedure. However, in the prosecutor's office, at the MUP and at the judiciary, it is up to the prosecution to take the case and to further establish whether these evidence is sufficient, whether it exists in that element and in these evidence enough to bring one verdict. That's why you don't see the names in this report, not because they're hiding, not because someone here is too heavy, but because the committee in charge has received one document, which for every criminal application and for all persons, which is why this investigation and this procedure has been initiated, and how far has the proceedings been brought in. The competent people on that committee have received these elements. I just want to say -- because there were even some bickerings, about this question, or at least it looked like, between the executive authority, the prosecution and the judiciary, that neither one of them should interfere in the affairs of another. Now he's in a further procedure to determine if there was any guilt. For this reason, the executive power, including the M.O.P., the prosecution and the judiciary, must do every part of it, professionally. The only thing I'm saying is that if you look at the work of a budget inspection, we can't help but be surprised why it took so long for the prosecutors to start working, that the judges start working, that the MUP starts working on these issues. It seems to me that these issues are very important, because this budgetary inspection, in my opinion, does not just have a direct effect of curbing some abuses, but has one little broader and greater meaning, and that is that for those who manage public finances it should be made clear that control of every moment is possible, even if it is certain, and that it is also a sufficient element for them to work by law and purpose. If it is judged by a large number, phone conversations, correspondence there is interest, a desire to know about this matter; it seems to me that this is also one of the elements that will lead all the budget users to from now on, not because it is both in power and in parliament, but because it is necessary to do so, budget money is sacred and is managed and better than it would be managed by some personal money, but not, of course, for personal purposes. That's why I'm trying to say that I'm not personally satisfied that neither of these proceedings has come up with a major investigation, there's not a single indictment, one of these cases is still in the prosecution. The truth is that one number of these cases was not sufficiently formed by that budget inspection, but they had to bake that trade. In any case, and as a citizen of this country, I want this not to be understood in any way, as a pressure on the prosecution, on the judiciary, because it is not, but only one appeal, that they (as we all are trying at this point) do everything in their power, in their jurisdiction to end these proceedings and to find out which of these 90 responsible persons in the truth wronged the law and that appropriate penalties under the law were imposed. That's where I'd like to conclude. This final account, which I am deeply convinced of, and this package, on the bulky side of the budget this time, opens a new era of our country's public finances, not because I am the Minister of Finance or because this is the government's call, but because this home is by voting the Budgetary System Act this year, because it provides for an extreme budget audit; because I don't believe anyone will dare next year, whoever was the finance minister, whoever was in the government, to deliver the final bill without budgetary inspection and because, in this way, it is seen that abuse and accidental spending of funds from the state register will not be tolerated. For all these reasons, I have the honour to suggest, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that you vote in favour of this final account and this report of the budgetary inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24583	I would like to thank the representative of the promoter, the finance minister and the economy. I'm asking if the committees are applying for a word. The Chairman of the Finance Committee or the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. We continue the debate by discussing representatives of parliamentary groups. The first to apply for the word of MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24584	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will begin my presentation in the framework of the final account debate, and I will begin with the praises of Minister Djelic. Each final account report should have at least 282 pages, as this report has for 2000. This is progress compared to all previous years, a thorough report, 282 pages. Obviously, a great effort has been made, a great effort, and every effort should be respected, even if it is pointless. You know, when an ant is worth something that looks like food, and it's not food, so it goes 100 or 200 meters, you appreciate an ant and strength and effort and effort, even if it's pointless. But then the question arises, why is the final bill for 2001 on only 53 sides? Why is the final account six times larger for 2000 than for 2001, although the government had much more money available for 2001? Why didn't you investigate in detail how money was spent here? There is no saying that Nebojsa Covic spent 500 million dinars, not a word. Why, then, did you not prove that you were objectively, securely approached, either by your grandmother or by your uncles, so you put everything on the table. I am very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that after those great halabucas where some former ministers from the Serbian Radical Party were called, all of them have now fallen out of this report. They're not here. There's something very specific about the minister's head. Maybe there's some in the secret report. They're somewhere, but there's no 282 pages in this report, except for the Ministry of Traffic. There are no other ministries where Serbian radicals were ministers. Since I'm particularly relaxed about this fact, I can continue to criticise this final account report. Minister Djelic is talking about parties financed from the budget. That has to be clear. The Serbian Radical Party has never funded itself. They are individual ministries, they bought books, but Minister Djelic had to specify that these books were the summated works of Professor Djelic. Lase Kostic, one of the greatest Serbian intellectuals of all time. And then (now you're going to hear, so what) first to see if the ministers who bought those books used all the money that was intended to represent the ministry? No, they're not. Maybe it's funny when someone reads, and there are people here who read. The SRS is full of people who read. Okay, this beautiful associate of yours, she doesn't need to read anything, she just needs a mirror in her life, but, Minister, you should at least read something in your life. They did not spend the ministers' money on lunches, dinners, other forms of representation, but each, as much as they were able to buy a number of sets of collected works by Laza Kostic. Some in the subscription, so the last part of the pieces came out and thanked them and said the ministries, not only radical, but also the ministries where the Socialists were; these ministries were listed, and then those books, as a team, were divided. All the bishops of the Serbian Orthodox Church received a set of collected works from Laza Kostic. The minister here told an incredible lie, says the book cost several thousand dinars. That's not true. One book cost a thousand dinars. A 1,000-page book in a hard connection! Let the minister now find a 1,000-page book in the bookstore below 3,000 dinars, if it's a new edition, it's gone. Furthermore, all the bishops of the Serbian Orthodox Church received a gift kit; he received Belgrade's mufti collected works of Laza Kostic for a gift, both the Belgrade archbishop, the Roman Catholic and former Perko and the current Hočevar, and there are records. Furthermore, they received a free and Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, its library, University Library - Belgrade, Library of Law School in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Pristina, Podgorica, Banja Luka, in Serbian Sarajevo, Institute of Contemporary History, Academy Director Vasilija Krestic, Slavenko Terzić, Director of the Historical Institute, Dragoljub Živojnović, renowned historian from the Faculty of Philosophy, Mihajlo Vojvodić, Radoš Ljušić, Academy Director Slavko Gavrilović, Dr Smilja Avramov, Prof. Mirko Zurovac, Professor Happy Sokic, library of the Serbian Mother, etc. The greatest living names of the Serbian science of humanitarian orientation and the library of our most significant institutions in the field of social science. There's a record. However, Ivkovic did not share books, but you found 100 books in the storeroom, you should criticise him for not sharing books, what the books in the storeroom will do; but those who have divided books, gave up representations, can't have any criticism here to suffer. The minister here is talking about criminal charges. Minister, why doesn't this report contain data against whom a individual criminal report has been filed and why? The minister is complaining that the prosecutions aren't responding. I can't have the D.A.'s office reacting to your political interests. How can the minister who gave up the team buy up a number of Laza Kostic's "Acquittal Parts" kits, share them with prominent intellectuals and institutions, and even have data and who he has shared, how can he criminally respond? Maybe it's your interest for all of us to go to prison, but ask us nicely and we'll go voluntarily, without judgment. Now, if Bozidar Djelic asks me to go to prison, I'm going to CZ right now. Let him ask me nicely. Milka, there's something else you can ask me for, you're not competent for prison. [[Sagar.]] It's about the objectivity and credibility of the Final Account Report. [[Laughter]] There's something else here that's very problematic. The Final Account Report for 2000 is adopted, and then an inspection report is added covering six years, i.e. From 1996 to 2000, so that's five years. Why since 1996? Because Nebojsa Covic, as he was expelled from the SPS in 1996, would bear his earlier responsibility, since then. Be careful, but New Democracy took part. She was in the government until 1998. Now I'm going to tell you one specific piece of information for the Ministry of Traffic, for example: for 1998, four fifths of all the budgets of the Ministry of Transport were spent until March of the month, until our entry into the government. That's the information you had. What you haven't clearly separated - the minister has been the one since then, and we attribute it to him; the minister has been the one since then, and we attribute it to him. This is pointless. In many restaurants, ministers changed several times during the time and from various parties. What are these criminal charges you're reporting through the media? Why didn't you file a report here on those criminal charges and let's see. I guess it took the National Assembly to find out before the media did. In the media, you fantasize, there's no procedure at all, nothing at all, funny. And, then, the minister laments that the procedure is not being conducted. Guilty courts, guilty prosecutors for not being this uninformed, uneducated, ignorant as a minister, and for not always being prepared to sue and judge political interests; there are also those still in the judiciary, who do so solely in political interests, but it is obvious that most are not prepared to do so. So, in my opinion, this report, even though it may be commendable, is actually revealing your true intentions, that the 2001 report is also on 300 pages... What? What kind of conversation is that, Minister? I'm the head of a parliamentary group here. You can't treat me like that. It's extremely rude and I won't tolerate it. Minister, you have a duty here to behave. It's mine to criticize you, to attack you, and it's yours to listen patiently and silently.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24585	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24586	No, I'm gonna be done with these ten minutes, so I'm gonna take your word for it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24587	Okay, thank you. Time's up. The speaker of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia Reform, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24588	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it is good that, despite the prolonging of the final budget account in 2000, at least today, we are also able to discuss the final budget bill for 2001, so that we will be able to compare in the most concrete way the relationship between people who are doing responsible jobs on topics and tasks that were characteristic of their predecessors. I think it's important that this final budget account is this detailed and that it corresponds to everyone -- and to those who think there's a lot of room for criticism, but also to those who feel unargumented by the suspect or accused. I think that's why it would be good to stick to the facts and try to talk from this distance, which is concrete, about all the issues, so that in the public finances system we can make it impossible to repeat those mistakes that are bad and which, finally, pay by the rule of citizens, not the parties. The parties can either win or lose the election, but the price, as a rule, of these mistakes that we point to and should talk about, if there are any in the 2001 final budget account, is paid by citizens. The finance minister mentioned several facts that we need to talk about without heat, looking for some concrete answers, unlike those who think it makes sense. See the final accounts for the period covered by this report. It's the period from 1996 to 2000. They are very shrewd, inconclusive, mostly reduced to something that is an administrative phrase, like -- planned costs; revenue achieved; difference; without any explanation, and therefore we come up with those unfortunate details, which cannot remain beyond our interests. Who decided to waste 2.5 million dinars in Žagućica to start building a home for Japanese pensioners in a situation where pensions were not paid to our pensioners. Maybe it was economically logical, but it wasn't successful. It was not debated by parliament, it was not discussed by the government, and it was obvious that something like that should not in itself be bypassed, but that it must be discussed openly - who is responsible for it. Is it just the minister in charge? So, are we going to do something here that was my predecessor's proposal, that responsibility is tied to parties, to individuals who are not in power today without talking about the system? Because it would be impossible, if it's a good system, to make the kind of mistakes we have today. Since the obvious intention was to bind responsibility exclusively to one party, i.e. The SPS, at least from the part that did power at that moment, I think we need to talk about collective responsibility, the collective consequences, because it's certainly a common damage. Do the ministries consider it necessary to buy out books that have been purchased and money that is really very clear to spend in such a way or could have been done in some other way; and whether it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Ecology or not. Is Mr. Seselj's responsibility because 30 million dinars have been spent in a completely illegal manner, which has been processed in a report that should be subject to the prosecution and not parliament. We're not judges, we're not prosecutors, and since someone's saying something like that is purely socialist responsibility, or julovese, it's not true. In applications submitted by the ministry and which should not be part of the report, because it is a matter of the judiciary, rather than a question of parliament, there are very clear lists of all the problematic situations and it may be easier for us all to do in all these cases, in the meantime, what has been done by someone else. There is no doubt that certain applications have been rejected and that suits everyone. If they're not justified, they should throw themselves away. If these questions are not asked then, of course, a new kind of problem -- are we protecting someone; are we negotiating with someone; are there the same principles for everyone. There are. We expect the judiciary to answer those questions that have been asked, questions that you have the right to ask as MPs from the opposition. You criticized, for example. Final account for 2001. So it's not true that the basic thesis presented by the finance minister here, considering the treatment of public finances between 1996 and 2000, has been disputed. There was financial chaos, and it was clearly totally immoral and political, which is certainly something to be condemned and publicised. The Solidarity Fund's funds are not being spent as defined in their purpose. Solidarity funds have been spent on political purposes. Party rooms have been renovated, swimming pools instead of broken houses; radio programs have been funded; advertised hospitals and there is no reason for us to support such a thing. Something like that should be condemned. Those who recognize it publicly say something like that on the basis of facts, not on the basis of political flossules spoken during the previous appearance of my fellow opposition MPs. I don't think we should quote the essence of criminal charges, but I don't think there's much logic and we can't support those facts that are public. And it is public knowledge, and it has been found that between 1996 and 2000, about 2.5 billion marks and 250m euros have been spent illegally and illegally. Is that the final amount? It's not. The bombing destroyed documentation that makes it impossible for us to form a final report. I don't think you, as MPs of the opposition, have benefited personally from that, at least not the vast majority. Those who are most often do not participate in the work of this congregation, and when they participate, it would be better for them to participate only by sitting in congregation benches. On the other hand, when we talk about some concrete examples, there is no way around those devastating facts that are linked to the most large financial abuses and malfeasances to the most sensitive social issues -- for the Ministry of Health, for the Republic Health Insurance Institute, for the ministry that has served the needs of the refugees and displaced population, for the solidarity funds, for the funds that are intended to be paid to families of dead or wounded police officers and soldiers in the war in 1999. So it's the rude shame, and it's those scars that will stay really deep in our society and that can only be treated with a very responsible and destructive attitude toward it all. So we ask those who are considered responsible for these questions. As far as the overall report is concerned, I will remind you that 282 pages are just examples of the biggest mistakes available and the spending of public funds, budgets. There's not everything, and if there was anything here, this report would count 2000 instead of 200 pages. There is not all the information here, and I don't think anyone should recognize the political benefit for themselves, because in the list of the most responsible officials of the authorities and responsible persons for the year 2000, there really is a representative of all the parties presently in the ranks of the opposition, their most responsible officials, and I think that what is so compromising in these reports, that it shouldn't be brought down to that level by the assembly debate. Those who feel it is immoral to make such a report can tell us what the Ministry of Environment Protection and the Adriatic football club has to do with Zrenjanin; what does the Ministry of Trade have to do with the Graphics Centre "Etiketa" - Bolec and the Central Father's Administration, what does Željko Simic have to do with all of this, what does Borislav Milac have to do with all the ministers who are in these criminal reports, who may not be present today, not as long as they were before, but deserve to open the issue of responsibility. We insist very responsibly on this, but not through the fight, but through the facts and the final court on this, they only give citizens and our judiciary. I wanted to tell you so much. I expect a real debate about the final bill for 2001, not this one about 2000, because I think it's all been said two years ago in the election. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24589	You don't have the right to a replica, according to article 97, you'd have the right to a replica, or if you were offensive... (Vojislav Seselj: He said I embezzled 30 million. ) I didn't hear. He just mentioned the previous speaker, I didn't hear. Besides, you've got 10 minutes, so you can use it. You don't have the right to a replica, I didn't hear. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24592	In accordance with Article 97 of I have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure, because Cedomir Jovanovic mentioned my name and said the criminal report was filed for 30 million dinars. That must be in the stenogram. That's what he said. Did I convince you that I was entitled to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24594	Now I'm just doing my time for replication. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24595	I agree, 25 seconds you have...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24596	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I have in front of me a report on the criminal reports of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which was submitted to the Assembly Committee. There are all kinds of nebuloses here. What Cedomir Jovanovic says, what does the football club have to do with it? The football club is in a village, a small village, and it was built on a swampy terrain. It was an interest for the swamp to be rehabilitated and to build a rural playground. As for the label, Bolech went directly to her for the printing of the book, because one ministry had pre-paid the money. It says on the book that the label was printed. The books were delivered in that amount. As far as I'm concerned, my name is nowhere to be found here. Absolutely not. It's on your list, I know, you've made a list of where my name comes first for liquidation, and that's why you removed my recent lying cops and kidnapped my armored jeep and disarmed my security. I know how much you hate me and how much you want to liquidate me. You can't attribute any crime to me and make it up. Here, let's see where that 30 million is, let Minister Djelic plead. What kind of 30 million is that? I didn't sign anything in government except government decisions; what you make up then. You are unable to make any criminal charges, to find anything compromising, and then go out for a pay phone and talk - filed criminal charges, so you tell the media - submitted, and after a while, after two years, you regret that the judicial authorities are unable to do anything about it and that your political interests are satisfied. That's the point. Come on, take it out, what's that? I'm not calling for immunity. While you are in power, I will never appeal to immunity, it would be my pleasure under your regime to be in prison. That would be the safest place for me, I guess I wouldn't have been shot there by these guys of yours who handle it with political bursts. There's nothing and the minister didn't find anything. You can make it all you want. There's nothing. If the government decided to move from one item to another, then the entire government voted for it, then the government cannot bear criminal responsibility, because there is no collective criminal responsibility. Only a minister can answer individually if something other than the government has been misused. If the government has decided, and especially under emergency circumstances, in an emergency situation, then the government can answer politically. No more of that nonsense, that doesn't mean anything to you anymore. There is simply no legal order of what you would like to achieve. There's no chance there. Since there's no possibility in the legal order... (President:Time. .... to carry out your political interests, take back the "audi, automatic rifle and solve everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24597	A second application for the word of the president of the DOS parliamentary group -- Serbia's Reform, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24598	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not all as forgetful as my predecessor thought. The fact that someone is talking about collective responsibility and doesn't want to talk about individual responsibility, because collective decisions don't exist without individual support, it's a matter of common sense. The SRS was a coalition partner of the SPS and JUL in the period during which the largest and most large financial embezzlements were made in our society, based on the information and facts we have. Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj signed a solution allowing the transfer of 30 million dinars from a special account of the solidarity contribution to the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, municipalities that have nothing to do with the Kolubar district. (Vojislav Seselj: Which municipalities? ) Mr Nikola Sainovic, as vice-president of the federal government, was blamed by the finance ministry for taking advantage of his official position and causing damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget for millions of dinars, by raising money on the basis of a decision to pay for humanitarian assistance to natural persons from Kosovo and Metohija, handed over Niko, who was scared of Republika Srpska, as president of the Republika Srpska's SRS. Mr. Slobodan Cerovic, as Minister of Tourism in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, damaged the tourism ministry illegally by transferring funds to the SRS. The inspection at the "Red Flag" office found that the funds from the Solidarity Fund were directed towards the reconstruction and reconstruction of the damaged facilities at the "Red Flag" office, which was re-routed to the name of the SRS donation. The decision was signed by the secretary of the SRS Executive Board two days before the decision was made, which is in the file that we have. I think the issue of shared responsibility opens up in situations where nothing has been done to prevent those major and most serious embezzlements that we are much more interested in than buying books or restoring some party premises, although it is for every conviction. We are interested in the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, we are interested in the forgetfulness of the then Prime Minister and his closest environment, which was required to prevent such a thing, as well as in the fact that hundreds of thousands of dollars, francs, euros, who knows what else. We are looking for this, and we will certainly drive it out, because it is our political interest, and we invite you to control us, fiercely, seriously, responsibly, the way we want to do by controlling what you left behind. We are not talking about moral responsibility, because the question must have been completely open and the question of moral norms is completely open. We can discuss whether it is moral or not to provide and first solve our personal problems with the position of the government that you are coming to as a person who exclusively advocates solving the problems of general society, protecting personal or party interests at the expense of and harming the interests of citizens of the entire country. These are open issues and we may receive concrete answers in this debate, but we, as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, have no reason to keep quiet, for example, information that I just gave you clear insight. We mention the responsible persons and indicate that it is not true that what happened in this society is solely responsible for the Socialists, Slobodan Milosevic or then Prime Minister. The responsibility was similar to that of those who, for the sake of personal or party benefit, agreed to do so, expecting that as obedient, they would be included in that bitter cake that we face today. Since you were so interested in those crumbs at the time, try it today. We don't want to keep it quiet, we're going to be very serious about it, open and reasoned, and we're never going to agree to do what you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24599	The basis for the replica? Is that another 30 million? You were just talking. The next 30 million dinars, the other 30 million. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic is talking about something that is not in the report. What 30 million and what municipalities? Why don't you say which municipalities and why don't you say it's about the Serbian government's decision to give some other municipalities, threatened, maimed, money for renovations. Tell me what the municipalities are. More than 40 million remain in that account at the end of 2000. Second, what does the Red Flag have to do with anything? Tomislav Nikolic was a member of the Red Flag Management Board, he never wanted to receive that cash he received from every board member, which you are now taking where you get. He never took a dinar from the flag and once, the director of the flag decided that the amount of 120m and some thousand dinars, so 4,000 marks in total, was then assigned to the Serbian Radical Party. What's the legal basis? What are you laughing at? What's so funny about that? See how many Hibers he receives in various administrative quarters. He receives 10,000 or 20,000 euros a month. Get him everything he's got. He is among you the most prominent in this membership on well-paid boards, so you see. Then why are you making things up? As for the Serbian Radical Party, she is proud to have been the publisher of the collected works of Laza Kostic. Cerovic bought 100 books for the team. You can see that no court is responding to that. The Minister's right to do that. If he has exceeded the annual funding for the team, then he can answer, and the minister will decide to buy very valuable books with his representative's resources, the most valuable books that have been published in the past 10 years and free of charge as a team of prominent figures, then it is commendable. You who have learned to waste yourself on state money, but we're going to ask your annual report to be 300 pages, so let's see what's in those 300 pages, see how you've had it, and how you can do it on a flat-rate basis and criticize it. Why didn't you put it all in the report? Why isn't there a flag in the report? Why isn't my name in the report? Let's see what decision that was. I only signed government decisions in government. The government decided by voting and if the government decided to declare several municipalities a certain amount of money, then it is its right. Finally, as far as party premises are concerned, the headquarters of the Serbian Radical Party in Valjevo has been torn down, as have many other buildings in Valjevo. It was torn down in the centre of the Valjev building of the Serbian Radical Party's headquarters. The Serbian Radical Party, like all other legal entities, has applied to get part of the state's money, to remove the consequences of the earthquake, and that's true. You obviously have nothing against Serbian radicals and now you're shooting for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24601	Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, spoke of the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24602	I would agree that we have nothing against Serbian radicals, neither I personally nor any of the individuals that are here; that is, to avoid confusion, that is why, given the media reaction, we must also respect privacy. These people have a family, and until something is established, it's very important that they don't just roll by people's names and reputations. What's the procedure? No one weighs there, of course, when the board of directors asks for one service, which is the sector for the budgetary inspection of the Ministry of Finance, to get an additional report and to seek some precision, we as executive authority have nothing to hide from the legislative authority and this esteemed home, but on the other hand at this home, on this committee, on the people to whom this report has been delivered is whether it is consistent with finding it in the media. Personally, I think it would be better, as some members of the board suggested, to wait for the judiciary and the judiciary to implement the whole procedure, so that based on this finding, when all things are established eventually, it will be published. That's why he's not here at the Ministry's initiative to share that report. As for the controversial things here, which we're talking about, as far as the Colubary County is concerned, the question arises this time, perhaps not legal and dedicated spending, but the wholeness of a government when hundreds of houses are destroyed, is it really a priority to fix one party house? We might be wondering if that's celery. The other thing we're asking as a question, and that's the answer, is that one thing that really came out for the first time, since for the first time one such budget inspection was made, that's what's illegal and what's unintended. We feel that there is a difference, that when and when there is a syasset in this report, we see that there have been some illegal activities and there is a clear violation of the law -- some people who were not budget users or in an illegal way spent some money. Then you have something that's not intended and this is exactly what it's all about. In this decision Mr. Seselj asked for, the government decided to take it from one source and spend it on something that was not intended under the law, and it was an accidental waste. The question arises: Is it unintendedly okay? Is casual spending something that can be tolerated? Of course. It is irrelevant, if you look at a graduation, a milder thing than illegal, but the problem is that if you leave it to the former or current one, but to any authority, after implementing the budget, in its own way, to reroute funds against the laws that regulate that matter, then it is in the minimum hand of misrepresentation of this home, because what is voted in the budget needs executive authority and to spend on that budget law, and not during the year to reroute funds to this and that way. It is certain that the circumstances were extremely difficult at the moment when this was happening, and I would just like to say that there is no vengeful initiative here at all. Understand that at the moment when the budget inspection does the job, it reports, by official duty according to what it found, it initiates a single procedure; and it is not at the level of the government, nor at my personal level, that things are clear, it was an intervention to be pursued, to have someone removed, but according to what the budget inspection found, and it can be done by all the inspectors who worked to confirm to you. It was done in a way that they concluded according to their professional definition and according to those things they found. There is a further procedure in the prosecution, in the judiciary (and therefore the government and I personally didn't want to roll with names just because one procedure was initiated) to determine what was the actual situation and whether the laws here were broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24603	National MP Vojislav Seselj, a replica of the presentation of Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24604	Now, apparently, we've established all the facts and I'm grateful to Minister Djelic for that. Minister, all you had to do was tell which municipalities we gave 30 million dinars. Was that Batochin, Ratche, where the floods were? Tell me, do you have that paper? Minister, the flood was, the government had to react urgently. Where did she get the money? From the point where it was the most. She had to do it. There's no criminal responsibility, and you're aware of it. There is political responsibility, but this government lost the election in 2000. What else do you want here? That's not why she lost, though, but what do you want here now, to determine political responsibility? Secondly, 42.4 million dinars were in the area on 31 December 2000. So there was money. The government gave some of the municipalities that were threatened, additionally, were not in the law, why not? I can't think of anything else right now. I don't have government files in front of me, but I know I've never signed anything dishonest and nothing that would be a crime. That's what I'm convinced of, and that's why you can't handle me. You can say whatever you want now. It was a municipality of Jagodina, a flood in Jagodina. What do you want? We gave money to the Jagodin municipality in August 1999, after the war, because of the floods; in 1999 there was no drought, as you say, in 1999 it rained all summer. You have no basis, that's the point. As for the means of solidarity, they were intended for all natural and legal persons who suffered earthquake damage. If someone abused a part of that money, then it's an individual responsibility - if someone took the money, and his house wasn't destroyed or someone took the money, so he was building a new house, etc. That's other stuff, and you need to clear it up. As far as the government is concerned, all things are infinitely clean. Where the government is behind something, I guarantee things are clean to the end. If criminal acts are committed in the area of jurisdiction, the minister has a name and last name, and the crime has a qualification in Criminal Law. The minister just said that for reasons of privacy he won't mention names now, but when he's with reporters, then for reasons of privacy he mentions names, so the newspaper is full of names and various criminal charges. Where's your criminal charges for me, Minister? Give it to me. ( Bozidar Djelic: In the prosecutor's office.) What is it, is this 30 million that was given for Jagodina or Batocina? Then you're surprised that no one responds to your criminal charges when they're nebulous.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24605	The speaker of the National Socialists Group, MP Branislav Ivkovic, reportedly, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24606	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in all respects of the previous speakers for this speaker, I can conclude that they have completely missed the subject. We adopted the agenda in which it writes - the draft budget bill for 2000, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On 6 December 2000, with the signing of Vice-President Joseph Kasa, the government of the Republic of Serbia provided this material containing the draft budget bill for 2000 and a report of a famous inspection for the period 1996-1999. First, the topic is the final budget account for 2000, and I want to say that I fully support the draft budget bill for 2000, especially at the position of the Ministry of Science and Technology, where I was a resolution minister, because it is precisely described what the ministries were doing in 2000. In particular, in the 2000 final account, the definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, unlike the current government, should be commended on social issues. You can notice in the final budget account for 2000, although it had a smaller realization than the plan, compared to the 2001 budget, that the salaries for educators and many social contributions were paid above the plan, although the realization was below plan. This speaks of the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the year of the war, thought extremely much in the area of social policy and social giving. On the contrary to Mr Djelic, the minister who has the habit of speaking five or ten times more than is foreseen for the presidents of the parliamentary groups, and does not now listen to the parliamentary groups, I would like to say this: it was a projection of 14% of the growth of the social product. I would like to point out that the growth of social product, Mr. Djelic, by September 2000 was almost 18.5%. The problem arose when the economy stopped in October, November and December 2000, and the total growth in 2000 was 5%. Unfortunately, we had one very ugly and logical reason why so much growth was, because we had a previous year that was forgotten, which is the year of NATO aggression; in 1999 much was destroyed, so it was 2000. the years all of this had to be fixed. As for the very Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, I absolutely support it. We will vote for the Budget Law for 2000. As far as the 1996-1999 inspection report is concerned, I can say that it is now clearly recognised why the reforms are late, because the entire government is obviously wasting its time and is engaged in the control of the work of the previous government. Of course, is there budget work controls, for example, for 2001, in the final account of the current government? There isn't. I guess the current government thinks the future government will control the work of the current government. Poor people if we've come to the point that governments are mostly in control of the work of previous governments or maybe we're all starting to think that, Mr. Djelic, this is all part of a story that the people are having fun. I support the attitude here -- whoever wronged, especially filled his personal pockets, he has to answer. That's probably the undivided position of all MPs in this room. It is not good to talk about privacy, Mr Djelic, and that on 13 April 2001, all the newspapers that exist in this country, from the source of your ministry, have issued a criminal complaint against the then president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, a criminal application which was obviously totally unsustainable and not supported where it was being discussed. The final budget bill for 2001 provides, in fact, many answers as to why problems are put first in connection with potential criminal actions in the former government. In your final account for 2001, Mr. Djelic, we can notice that it has been charged, implemented almost 99.84%, and you must be given the recognition that you have really introduced increased financial discipline. This is what is good in the work of this government and you personally, that financial discipline is strengthened. But you can see the following: even though you have charged almost 100%, in the final account of the 2001 budget, that year, you were in the position of your ministry's social programs instead of three billion dinars, as planned, to realize only 450 million. That's six times less than the plan. At student standard, same six times less than the plan. So in the traffic position, instead of 7.5 billion, you spent 9.5 billion. We are now wondering why you are looking for amendments to the Budgetary System Act and why you are looking for a budget for 2001. Perhaps because the Law on the Budgetary System, Mr Djelic, predicted that this assembly here forms external control of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So far, we have not received a proposal from you from the team's composition, nor have we decided in the Assembly who will externally control the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 and 2002, and then come to one logical conclusion -- surely the undivided position of all of us here, in parliament, that everyone in any part and field of action and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in the economy, and in life at all, have done any criminal activity, especially in the Government, filling their own pockets, should respond. But you can't get the impression that it's deliberately favoring the story, to cloud some other things, and to see, for example, things happen. that the budgetary inspection in 2001 was only entertained by municipalities, and was not entertained by the government at all, that you had rewarded the inspectors in particular, because the only position where the salaries were transferred is the Republic Public Revenue Administration, in 2001, at a time when you allocated only 450 million for social programs instead of three billion, even though you realised 100% of the budget payment, because you really improved the financial discipline in the country. I don't think everything that's been said here is going well, and I think this parliament should be left with an investigation of the diverses in the previous period, because you should be aware that in the next period, someone fat will have fun with those who have dealt with it. I also feel sorry for those inspectors, each of us remembers their names and can't forget it, but you, too, and those who deal with it, that it's not a long time before someone controls what they've been doing at a time when they wanted to be good diverses, maybe they've missed the desire to pin it on you, to justify some political biography, and judges, and investigative judges, and inspectors, etc. I mean, on behalf of the people's Socialists, I suggest that this assembly adopt as proposed the Budget Act for 2000, because this budget law, as proposed, gives a realistic picture of work in the first post-NATO aggression year, in the year when the growth of social product was really close to 18% by September, when in impossible conditions much has been done, and of course to conclude - whoever is engaged in criminal activities, especially in his own pocket, should be responsible, and that we turn more to what is happening today in business and where we are going. For example, today or tomorrow, we will discuss the 2003 budget, and you, Mr. Djelic, are predicting 49 billion imbalances. A moment ago, you resented that the 2000 budget wasn't designed properly, and it was all 35 billion. You're missing 49 billion, these are huge items. Sometimes you have to be careful when you resent it, because you're going into the same trap yourself. You object that the budget for 2000 was unreally planned. How can it be realistically planned, when before that was the year of aggression, but yet it was a total of 35 billion, and you, who resent it, are proposing for the 2003 budget rebalance of 49 billion. That's a lot of money. Where you're going to drain that dry dreno, which you're going to drain with tax regulations from this people, because our business, Mr. Djelic, has stopped. I know it's not easy for you, because, basically, your work depends a lot on the work of the NBJ; it's a special story; the NBJ has, by disposing of this country's funds, about two billion dollars, somewhere outside, caused a factical crisis of fresh capital, raised interest on loans and contributed greatly to what's going on in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24607	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24608	Just a few precisions, and of course I don't want things to be put up in a personal way, but I would just like to say, firstly, when what I mentioned in the opening statement was divided, which is a report that complements the report of the budgetary inspection, and that's what was delivered last year with the final account for 2000, it is re-delivered to you, since many Members of the Committee specifically asked to receive that report. So there's nothing new about this, according to the way it was established in June of last year. As far as the exposure itself is concerned, I would like to say that in this particular case, the investigation did not start from a dead end, because in this case, it was called for parliamentary immunity. And secondly, as regards Mr. Ivkovic, if we look at the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, we must nevertheless conclude that the budget inspection report found that some 680,193 dinars were paid directly from the jury of the ministry, to the jury account of the SPS, that a Serbian radical party was paid 183,880 dinars, apparently for books. So you were a reader, but it looks like you didn't unpack those books, because maybe they weren't interesting enough, I don't know. In any case, you, as the Ministry, have paid off the secrecy. The FONAS Foundation, founded by the Municipal Committee of the SPS Vračar, directly received 570,000 dinars from the ministry, and indirectly through other giro accounts, other legal entities, because then there was a trail of money, and that legal person would receive money, and then be paid to the jury by FONAS. That would be another 1,675,000 dinars. There were payments of 409.000 dinars, and there was no legal basis for it, or 1.500,000, which was paid for the goods without proof that the goods were taken over or that the service was done. It was also paid by natural persons in an account opened by business banks of 600,000 dinars, without any contract on the work being made. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24609	There is a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic, a replica to the presentation of the minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24610	Dear Mr. Minister, you've told this speaker a pure lie, and that's why you're making me think that maybe you're doing it in those situations that I'm not informed about. Namely, esteeming Banet Ivkovic's privacy and respecting his family, his children, and his mother, now deceased, one of you, perhaps personally, made an effort to make a clean lie in all newspapers on 13 April 2001. That pure lie you've repeated here, and that's why I've been stripped of my immunity. I didn't even call for parliamentary immunity. I even came across an interesting situation, that your very good inspectors, which you've paid well, forgot to deliver the Ministry of Science and Technology's financial plan, because instead of the entire 39 pages, they only delivered the lurid part, the first two sides, and on page 37, 38 and 39, there's everything. However, I appeal to you, as a man, that this people here, and also the people watching this transmission, release the investigative activities. There is a judicial system in Serbia. We have deep faith that all these people sitting in Serbia's judicial system, and in the prosecution, and in the investigative authorities, and in the judiciary, are still thinking that maybe as soon as possible, in six months or a year, someone will control what they've been doing today, and that it's not good to be a pimp today, because tomorrow maybe they can't go beyond Ripnje or Rušnje, and maybe someone can go to Paris, but still stay in the country. So, I don't think it's good... I'm a regular professor of the university, a builder, I don't do law, you're an economist, you probably don't know the first thing about law, and neither do I, to let people deal with this business. But it is not good that the government's work is based solely on the fact that all the inspections that the government has, plus the paid 50 people on the side, are spending their strength to analyze what was done between 1996 and 2000 and that no one controls 2001 and 2002. You've proposed the Budgetary System Act. You predicted the possibility of external control by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This congregation has never established that external control, but we'd better be dealing with creation, not degradation and mutual proof. It's an appeal from the National Socialists. By the way, about the agenda, you've made a huge mistake. This report you have shared is not on the agenda, as Mr. Joseph Kasa delivered, as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Budget and the Final Account for 2000 and submitted a report on the inspection control from 1996 to 1999. Therefore, unfortunately, this report is stale and is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24611	The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24612	I'd just like to say that the nature of this work is in no way some political commission. I just want to say, since you mentioned that nothing happened, which is why it didn't happen, and also to mention that there's a sentence that's very important, and I can't help but react to it. At no time did anyone ever say to those people who did this hard work - go on this, do this, do that, chase that. It's never been done. On the other hand, the reality of their work is that on many occasions someone threatened them and said exactly what we just heard at the pay phone -- I'll remember your name, so you'll see if you dare to check something out that I did, I'll get back at you tomorrow. I can't help but react to that, it's time to let the inspection services not work by threat or order, just to do their job. I have to react the second time someone says they'll remember the name of an officer who's only doing his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24613	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24614	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, this entire debate in these past two and a half hours shows what the essence of today's story and these agenda points is. There's no talking here at all about the final budget bill for 2000, this is about this second one, the report, the way the funds are used. Namely, this is confirmed first by the minister, and then by other DOS representatives, because if you wanted to discuss the final budget bill for 2000, it's a simple thing, because you have here 262 pages of material, you have 254 items, so you can see very simply what these funds are spent for. This story has a different background and this different background shows that no funds are touched either. It's true, lies, half-truths, and the goal justifies the means. Last week, when this agenda fell, the minister heard -- I don't think the final bill for 1998 was adopted. Well, Mr. Minister, you could have looked at the May 1999 Official List and it says there - the 1998 Final Account. It's a shame for the minister not to know that the final bill was adopted. If this story didn't have another background, it wouldn't have come up in public. It says here, you shouldn't roll with names. Who published the report? Minister, this came out of your ministry, appeared in the daily newspaper at the same time; 48, 90, who knows how many people, do you know what it means to them, to their families, without a court, without anything? That's your report. The second thing is how he found himself in public information funds. In fact, the whole story has been going on since the beginning. So in 2001, when we had this point on the agenda, it was taken down, and now we see why -- based on the government's conclusion, to explore it indefinitely. To explore; here, remember, when people in 2001, 15 months ago, did not get the opportunity to say anything about this report, but therefore both in May and June 2001, the funds of public information were filled with what is the content of this document, without the ministry, without judicial authorities, without anyone. So, the point is to slander people, to give one verdict in advance. It's not, of course, an accident. The same thing happened in the adoption of the Extraprofit Act. The strongest argument was - what the previous government did, with condemnation of people and the mention of people. Remember the November elections in 2001 -- the report appeared again. Why, did the congregation have time to decide? Of course he did, but he didn't want to. Well, even now, if it hadn't been for these presidential choices, this material wouldn't have turned up. You know what the point is. We need to talk about this material, not what the government is doing. Talking about what the government is doing is very difficult, because there's nothing to say. How can the minister explain that according to the Extraprofit Act, which has been so loudly announced, 121 million marks have been realized; billions of marks have been discussed, even now the Supreme Court's decision, and we will see what it is. How to talk about those promised $6.5 billion where they've dried up, why they've dried out donations from abroad, why there's no respect for the law, why there's media darkness, why there's no respect for the laws, why our socialists are stealing five mandates? What do we need it for? This belongs to us because we were given by the citizens of Serbia. But, of course, there's no answer to that, but -- let's make a report, and we'll talk about it. We're not gonna talk about the final bill. I expect, in accordance with this government policy, that perhaps for some of the next elections, we will have a report on the way the funds have been spent since 1988. Not bad: 1988, so let's close this period, because whenever you talk, you've been mentioning it since 1988, so it's not bad for the Assembly to make a statement. When it comes to the final budget bill itself for 2000, I must say that it is written, as it is seen, on over 280 and some pages, that it has been allocated to 254 items, that the budget for that year was 32 billion, with special accounts of about 50 billion, and only the deficit for this year is 46 billion dinars, that the two governments implemented that budget, it is forgotten to say. It is the Government of People's Unity, headed by Mr. Marjanovic, as well as the transitional government headed by Mr. Minic, a government that included a significant number of DOS ministers, some of whom are ministers today. The draft final budget account for that year supported and proposed adoption and the government headed by Mr Djindjic and the report was adopted on the parent board as well. The Committee also accepted the proposal for this final account law and it exists in the documentation. What else does the final bill for 2000 show us? That the budget was implemented in many specific years: first of all, it is the first postwar year, years after NATO's aggression on our country, when the restoration and construction of destroyed and damaged objects was continued, the year in which the country was to start production in ruined enterprises, repair, or rehabilitate the infrastructure, fulfill, in addition to all that, and budget commitments, ensure functioning and education and healthcare and other public services, ensure pension payments and so forth. It is also the year when October 5th, the coup in the country, when crisis headquarters were formed and almost destroyed on the wave of production, but also the pre-emptive elections were held. A difficult year - both in economic and political terms. The government of the People's Unity has done as far as possible to achieve the targets set in early 2000. She's done a lot of things, anyway, this report is the best indicator of what the government has done. When it comes to this exercise, which is, in fact, the essence of the debate on this agenda point, I would say the following about this report. First, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has already adopted the Law on the Final Account of the Serbian budget for 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996, so no report on the use of budgets that raises the issue, and what has been the subject of assembly debate and decision-making, nor can it accept qualifications on budget spending as non-purpose and illegal. The DOS report obviously has the power of the law to dissuade already passed laws. Secondly, the National Assembly is not considering a report on the financial operations of the funds -- pension, health, employment -- and this follows a logical question from where these data came from in that report. The boards of directors of health funds, pension and employment adopted financial reports, and the Serbian government gave them its consent under the law. This report now calls this retroactively into question. State authorities and funds have implemented government policy, and this cannot be questioned, as the government is self-managing, and the authorities have realised government policy confirms the fact that the Serbian government has verified all the body's financial reports. Third, budget funds have been used in line with the needs of budget beneficiaries in certain environments. The users of funds from different accounts helped each other and borrowed funds so that problems in the interests of citizens could be resolved. If one of the end-users did something against the law, adopted budget funds, gained property benefits, such individuals had nothing to do with and had nothing to do with the Government of People's Unity and the SPS. Such faces we would not defend, and they should be the subject of the work of the state authorities involved, so let the truth be established. Fourthly, the report's intention is to show the public that the large funds are unintended and unlawfully spent. The DOS, since it commissioned this report, is considered by unintended and illegal spending of budget funds -- lending to the Pension Insurance Fund to pay off pensions, lending to the country's recovery director after NATO aggression in 1999, borrowing the Directorate for Ways of the Republic of Serbia for Road Rehabilitation, borrowing the funds of the Stock Reserve Directorate, lending to businesses destroyed during NATO aggression, transferring funds from one budget account to another in order to pay off the needs of schools and other public institutions. The funds were also used for social institutions, for the most vulnerable persons, for humanitarian activities. The funds were used to stimulate production. The funds were given to the Yugoslav Army. Fifthly, correctness works, and especially works for the public, for this part of the agenda, the Assembly should also invite people who were headed by the ministries who were mentioned in this report that no one knows how it got to the public, and at least the minister. You should've called them and heard what they said about it. Some of them never got the chance to say anything about what was put on their minds. Of course, they are neither then nor today are they invited not to tell their own story, so that the other side may be heard, as the accuracy of the claims seems. The sixth, in terms of facts, is directly directed against people and the SPS. Even if it did not enter into the content of extreme claims (for us socialists they are arbitrary and malicious) the fact is that they refer only to the SPS. Of course, the mission is primary - against the SPS. Seven, the report was obviously written by people who were biased, who had no need for knowledge, who knew nothing about the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since the first 10 minutes are up, I will not use the remaining time, but I will gladly, in the rest of the work, show and prove the correctness of these claims, inaccuracy, malice, and show that one government has the same two arches -- one when it comes to the SPS, and the other when it comes to DOS, and you will see concrete examples of how funds are spent from the budget, and of course we will see what will be the final result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24615	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go. The word is made by the People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24616	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, fellow MPs, I must remind you that we asked last year for a report on the way the budget was used in 2000, and we were looking for this precisely because these funds were spent in vain because there were abuses, because there were obvious violations of the law in the spending of budget funds. Some now say that if the Assembly adopts a budget law or a budget law then the government has the right to violate it however it pleases. So, the Assembly says -- okay, we accept this kind of budget, and we accept that the funds are used for those purposes, but then the government will use that for what it wants. Therefore, the Assembly adopts legislation on how funds will be used and the government cannot use the entire budget on its own. So much for those who now think the government is right and that the government itself was simply competent to assess. And so much for the legal responsibility of every member of the government who thus violated the law that this congregation passed, or another congregation. Some say that we should now be dealing with the future without turning backwards and dealing with what was in the past. I call on the parliamentary majority not to vote for the Final Account Act. So, we accept the department's report on all abuses, malfeasances, etc. which has been determined, but I call on us not to vote on the Final Account Act until criminal responsibility is established for all those who have used this budget in this way, because we are not obliged to amnesty from responsibility and to pursue continuity by accepting such a final account. The third intention here is completely obvious, and it is that instead of talking about 2 billion German marks -- the means used in an illegal manner, they are now extracting individual cases here and trying to show that these petty individual cases and can justify why they were so spent; so perhaps the Bucharest was able to print, because many of the Ministers needed more than the collected works of Lukic, but it is that these funds were not purposely spent and that this was a violation of the law. So there's something that's legal, and there's something that's illegal. So the Democratic Alternative will not accept this law, because the report is not a point we adopt, but only the Final Account Act, and I call on the parliamentary majority not to accept this law. We're not really bound by marifettes, thieves and previous manipulations, that is, to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24617	National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, is reporting second as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree with the exposure of Hope Kolundjia. I have to commend her. I especially agree with her advocate for fighting thieving. Together, Hope, the two of us are going to fight the thief, and first we're going to jail for Nebojsa Covic, because there's the most evidence for him. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where Minister Djelic, in his report, has only potentiated one ministry, where the Serbian Radical is concerned. Because I think any party can represent their own interests, I'll only hold on to it. A criminal report has been filed against Ratko Marcetic, the minister of traffic in the past term. There's been a lawsuit. Acting in accordance with the law, second municipal court judge Ivon Lalovic, on the basis of the demands of prosecutor Neboja Obradovic, hired court expert Milan Mandic, a graduate economist, a permanent expert in the economic-financial area, as a suspect. That's who the court hired. The artist was given a skillful task, and he says: "The solution of this court is to determine the performance of evidence of art in the circumstances -- to determine on what basis the payment was made towards the companies and other legal persons listed in the application, namely the Ottajbin Administration of the SRS, 100,000 dinars; TV "Palma Plus" 62,200 dinars; "Borov borelli" 41,000; the company "Perica" from Jagodina 24,000 and PSV "Motorola" 15,900 dinars. That is why criminal charges were filed against Ratko Marcetic, the former traffic minister. It is further said: "The ceremony to be carried out in the accounting of the Republic of Serbia, at the Ministry of Transport. " (That's the task that got the expert. ) The process and the course of the art "After the download of the file I have studied it and found that not all the evidence necessary for the proper execution of the craftsmanship is provided in the files. I scheduled the art of 2 December 2002 at the Ministry of Transport and in the Serbian Radical Party, a finding of a permanent artist. By inserting evidence in the files, I found that the files included evidence of payments to the Ministry's account. Payments are all under the Payments Act. "That's what the court expert says. "To determine whether the minister is authorised to conclude contracts and other obligations paid to the ministry's burden, I asked the ministry to give me an act on the basis of which the minister performs a function in a material sense. There is no special act, but the issue has been regulated by the State Administration Act ("F. "that and that" list, along with a number of amendments to the Ministry Act. Under these laws, the minister is doing all the jobs for the ministry, providing funds, deploying, controlling spending and implementing laws and decisions. In the ministry, the minister is independent of making decisions on spending funds under the business plan." In the opinion of experts, the minister has no restrictions on making decisions within the available budget resources. "I have skillfully trained each spending listed in a request to conduct an investigation. First, the cost of paying the SRS, out of 100,000 dinars - by artificializing in the SRS, I found that the money was registered in the SRS bookkeeping. The money is intended to help issue the book of the collected works of Laza M. Kostic. The book has been published, the expert has made an insight into the book." There may be a mistake here - in books. "This book was funded by five other ministries of the Republic of Serbia. The book was published in 2000. There's an emissary in the SRS. 36/2000, which handed over 100 pieces of books to the Ministry of Traffic on the basis of an amount of 100,000 dinars. "The expert believes that it was an action to help issue this book, so in addition to five other ministries, the Ministry of Transport also executed the payment. Point two... And there was no bombing in 2000. Milka, you don't even know when there was a bombing, how do you know, you and the bazooka to hit, you wouldn't know what it is. Second point: "The cost of 67,200 dinars according to TV Palma plus is an ordinary cost that is recorded as material costs. "In the opinion of the expert, this is a material cost, which according to the State Administration Act, the minister has the right to pay. "It is evident from witness statements and evidence that there is no written contract, but it is undeniable that the money has been transferred to the Palm Plus account and that, according to the witness's statement, the job of the service was done for the ministry's account. I believe the minister is authorized to sign the payment and for this cost." Third point: "Borovo Borelli" paid 41,329 dinars for protection shoes to employees in one part of the ministry. The representative of the Borovo-Borellija contributed to the account, the invoice and the dispatchery along with the files. In addition, Borovo offered to make 40 pairs of shoes used as a protective tool in the Captain's port, Karadjordjeva No. 6. These are special boots for port captains; do you know what a port captain is? Fourth, payment to the company "Perica" from Svetozarev amounting to 24,420 dinars (in small intestines goes minister) for marketing services. "From the testimony of witnesses to whom the money was paid, it is claimed that the service was done. The expert has no proof of that. The conclusion of the invoice is a contract and is valid for booking in accounting. "The invoice is a contract, Minister. Since the minister hasn't graduated from college, we have an uneducated and uneducated minister. His diploma is nowhere to be verified, nostrified, where is he, via connection to Gaše Knezevic? As far as I know, it's not; Minister, a degree in the sun, let's see. For the account paid to the PSV Motorola company, a mobile phone was downloaded. When there's a severance, and it's paid for in advance, the booking is done by dispatch. That's what the court expert says. "The ministry has a responsible employee in charge of carrying out a business of immaterial financial operations, so the failure of the worker who did not ask for an invoice to be booked is a failure." Furthermore, in the expert's view "paid amounts cannot have the character of damage to the ministry, because they have been admitted to counter-value in goods or services used by the ministry. In the State Administration Act, there are defined costs that can be financed from the budget available to the ministry. All paid invoices shall be included in the prescribed costs referred to in Articles 85 to 89. The law. On the basis of the documentation seen in the files and the evidence carried out, I give the court the following opinion: 1. The evidence provided in the files provides the basis for the payments made in the decision to carry out the investigation to be subject to the costs listed in Articles 85 to 98. Law on the state administration of the Republic of Serbia. 2. The minister has no restrictions on the level and basis for paying the costs up to the amount allocated to the allocation of funds in the ministry budget. 3. It is indisputable that there is a failure to complete the documentation that monitors the purchase of goods and the payment of services from budget funds, and for that is the responsibility of the accounting service for the Ministry's account. Belgrade, December 3, 2002. Annex: Minutes, dispatcher and coster". Minister Djelic is now surprised that the courts are not acting on his orders. What court could now confirm that the minister is right, not Ratko Marcetic, who, for what reason, is now being prosecuted by Minister Djelic. Here, persecute an innocent man, neither guilty nor indemnity, for a certain vengefulness. There was nothing you could do that was a crime. This is your final report. What you've been writing before, I don't care at all, it's not accompanied by the call of this session and the agenda. This is the material for this agenda point. What you wrote earlier can hang a cat on a tail, because you keep referring to some of your reports that aren't there, some of your reports that aren't there. Here's everything you've got. Here's to the Ministry of Traffic, that you're absolutely wrong about anything. Why don't you remove the courts and judge for yourselves? Shoot us now and you'll have no more problems. That's the best way. Here's an idea. Is that what there are, Minister, in some books there? There is. That wasn't the first time. That's what Hitler and Stalin did, and why shouldn't you? Do you think you're better? You're not. This is proof that you're committing crimes...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24619	People's MP, if you remember in the Rules of Procedure, there is a provision on the treatment of one another. The government ministers are included.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24620	Is that in the Rules of Procedure? Then why didn't you warn Hope Kolundji of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Komic? She was talking about some thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24621	Mrs. Hope Kolundji did not address any of you, and whoever recognised it did not protest.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24622	He recognized Nebojsa Covic in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24623	Ten minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24624	I'm finishing up, just this little time you've taken away from me -- well, therefore, this is all pointless what you've been doing. You have absolutely no proof, just stamping yourself out in public. Your hatred, your cynicism, your impatience destroys you alone. We opposition people are simply blooming from a valid hatred, Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24625	The word has the president of the parliamentary group, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24626	So it's not the one who's qualified for the truth, it's the one who recognizes it. Secondly, one who is so often and too loudly pointing at all sides screams - hold the thief, for his own good, wants to draw attention first of all from himself. Secondly, there is obvious dissatisfaction with the intention that existed, to sell Kosovo and Metohija after the bombing, this government is trying to fix and stop And that's why Nebojsa Covic is the target of those who are most disturbed by it. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24627	The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24628	First of all, I'd like to say that there is no shred of hatred in this process and in what this service has done, and as far as I'm concerned. He just wants to determine what the facts are. What was mentioned on the speaker shows that further action should determine what the facts are. Officially, the service must initiate the procedure, and it is up to the prosecution and the judiciary to establish facts and to do so. If we look at this particular case, of course we have one accounting skill here, whether what we think exists or really exists. It's been found to exist. The second question is whether it is according to the financial plan and the public is to judge whether it is the priority of a traffic minister to pay without a contract for a television in Jagodina or to buy some books issued by his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24629	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the debate after the application for a word, in the principle debate on the Law on the Final Account of the budget for 2000. The first to be reported is MP Dragan S. Tomic, followed by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Is MP Dragan S. Tomic in the O.R.? No, I don't. Then I ask the MP Gordan Pop-Lazic to use his right to speak, followed by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I look back at the Minister's exposés, I would like to remind you that in 2000, the economic policy for the year following the NATO Pact's aggression would be based on retaining the participation of public spending in the social product at a maximum of 49.5%, and it was necessary for all public expenditures to be reduced to this level. This was one thrift budget and sought to maintain a strong budgetary limit, i.e. no budget rebalances were planned to create an economic environment for production and export growth. The budget for 2000 was relatively lower by about 10% of the 1999 budget. It should have been trendy so that it would continue in the coming years. The Law on public revenue and public expenditure, Article 89, found that in the case of unbalanced income and expenditure, where public revenue obligations belonging to the budget cannot be implemented in the manner provided for in that law, the implementation of budget expenditure may be compensated for the revenue burden of the budget, with the approval of the authority responsible for the tasks of the budget. This is what the minister attacked by saying in his exposé that it was illegal to pay compensation and to close debt between economic operators and debtors of the budget and state towards budget users, even multipled in multiple circles, but the law allowed it. In his exposé, the minister said that budget control was carried out by, among other things, the financial police and the former, as he said, SDKs, pensioners, some aunts and aunts of the finance minister, and I want to draw attention to the fact that they are not competent authorities. The law makes it clear who can exercise budgetary control: only budgetary inspectors, and no other experts can, some experts, be brought from the street or from any institution to exercise budgetary control. Then you wonder why the prosecution, the judicial authorities or the business courts won't work on applications for business crimes or criminal charges. People can't work when a request for an economic offense is sent from an unauthorized person. The person who applied to the Court of Commerce is not legitimate for this, is not a budgetary inspector. It is known what financial police can do under the laws they operate and cannot interfere with the budget. Furthermore, the minister here said that the subject of a budget inspection had been devastated by financial nature and devastated moral nature. This, frankly, surprised me very much, since I know that this has shattered moral nature in the sole jurisdiction of the DOS Central Committee, not budget inspections. As for the law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, you remember that a special fee for business transactions of 0.15% was introduced, which was also mentioned by the minister. The income achieved in 2000 on this basis was 1.590,000,000 and remained in that account at the end of 2000, 42,000,000. Unfortunately, the earthquake was impossible to predict, and neither was the flood, and therefore the government had to resort to the adoption of a regulation like this. In addition, that regulation on a special fee for cigarettes, on a special fee for motor gasoline, on a special fee for beer has been adopted. The funds used to rebuild the country amounting to a billion and a half. The remaining funds in this account were around 33.7 million dinars at the end of the year. The government finds here in its report that there has been an update in the cost of maternity benefits, in payment on the basis of the right to material supplement, the rights to help equip newborns, the rights to child allowance and the cost of staying in preschool institutions. The government, with a budget like this in 2000, when we know what the economy was like right after the aggression, managed to do everything that had to be found in the report on the final budget bill for 2000, but the government also speaks very highly of the 2000 budget. I will only quote one sentence at the end of this report, where it is said - it is noted that the classical non-purpose spending of funds implies those cases where the funds of one budgetary position were spent on another purpose, and that no other illegalities were done, that the funds were not unduly transferred to third parties, where the actions were damaged by the state, and those legal persons achieved property benefit in an illegal manner. Thus, all that earlier in the afternoon debate, the minister went out for a pay phone, invented some crimes, mentioned some former ministers, fell into the water; in the very draft of the law, there is this sentence that I have now read, and I think that with all praise, this report can be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24631	The word has a folk MP Dragan Jovanovic, followed by MP Stevan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft law on the Executive Account for 2000, with a budget inspection report, some kind of inspection for the period from 1996 to 1999. I'm not repeating this because of the MPs. I repeat this because of Serbian citizens who probably have been rubbing their eyes all morning without believing their eyes that they were working on the law from 1996 to 1999. They are probably surprised that the reform government, which constantly trumpets to be reform, puts the Serbian Parliament's 2000 law on the agenda, with a view to the period from 1996 to 1999. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a political scandal, the peak of hypocrisy and political cynicism. Serbian citizens expected (check with your relatives at home) that the government, which enters the third year of its rule for the other day, at today's session before the adoption of the 2003 budget, submitted a report to the National Assembly on what it was doing in the previous two years, to give an answer to the ongoing problem, to what is plagued by Serbian citizens today, for example to tell citizens why a huge part of the population is on the verge of hunger, according to the findings of your statistical agencies. Why hundreds of companies are closed down to sell out cheaper. Why students strike hunger. Because they're big scholarships they can't pay. Why are agricultural prices, especially raspberries and blackberries, below critical levels? Why did you distract the people for two years with each other's squabbles and squabbles that had nothing to do with them? Why didn't you file a report by the Committee of Auditors, who spent a month and a half of their national money, on the listening to the government and the rest of the puppets you presented here? So you didn't file a report from the Survey Committee. Instead of all that citizens expect, and it is natural for them to expect their government to answer questions about what it has been doing for the past two years, you're putting on the agenda of the 1996 budget. Who, ladies and gentlemen, is interested in what happened in 1996? Does anyone care what happened in 1996? Laws on budget implementation have been adopted between 1996 and 1999. Therefore, the story told by the minister about the non-intentional spending of the budget is for small children. By adopting the Law on Budget Implementation, all spills from the ministry to the ministry, all government decisions, get legitimacy. If there were individual abuses with end-users, it's a job for the court. No SPS MP here will ever defend anyone who took the money and put it in his pocket. What's this about? Why did you put 1996 - 1999? You want to distract the people. Look at the latest statistics, look at the public opinion survey -- 89% of Serbian citizens think DOS politicians are distracting them. The goal of putting this on the agenda is not so much of a revenge against some parties, which is largely the main goal of distracting the people. You can see that very well. Look at the 2000 budget. That's the budget of the year preceding the bombing. These 17-Gs of yours found, wrote a book that said there was $35 billion in damages that year. Do you expect, ladies and gentlemen, to carry out a budget by position in the year when the country was destroyed and suffered $35 billion in damage? I'd like you to print this out, share it with the citizens of Serbia, see how our Mr. Elliot Ness and his inspectors have found the hard criminals. We had this John Markovic in JUL, who was constantly finding some "asses", spiders. This one just came in and found a lot of big criminals. He found in the Ministry of Traffic that they shared children's packages, they shared a warm meal at the Ministry of Agriculture, the sports ministry gave Kosovo and Metohija assistance to the bombed. The labour market office doesn't mention a man who went to the judge eight times because he helped the memorial to mark the day of the Alexine bombing. That's the kind of criminal you mentioned. To those you mentioned a little more seriously, you've preserved immunity, and now you're brainwashing the citizens here with some great things. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no way out of this job. I expect, instead of putting on the agenda the mafia affairs Mr. Seselj has repeatedly mentioned and explained them in one 300-page material involving the Serbian government, to put the 1946 budget for the next session. The citizens are already used to it. I'd like to give you some advice -- it's no use looking in the back. If it had any use for looking back, God would have made his eyes dark. So, get to work, if there's anything else you can do, drop the dead end and distract the people. I just said: the people read that story; 89% of the citizens think politicians are distracting them. Take the paper from the day before yesterday, it's your paper, it's not ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24633	The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24634	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it's a bit of a joke to talk about something, and the people say that - let's go away from seeing witches, let's make something that can be useful in our lives. I don't know what this witch-wrestle is for. I don't know what watching in 1996 is for. For example, I'd rather have met Milk in 1996 than in 2001. We looked better, sure. I don't know what's interesting to see at the end of 2002, to talk about 2000, so we're talking about some earlier years and there's criminal acts. It's someone else's doing, not the National Assembly. If this is just one point for us to pass the day, we've been through too many days without it. I don't know what I'm going to do with this report. If that report was real and honest when we had him out there in the first half of last year for the first time we had to watch, when it made sense to talk about it, then the minister pulled him better. I don't know why, he didn't explain it. To talk about the 2000 budget at the end of 2002 seems funny and so interesting that the largest number of colleagues and doesn't sit here because they don't know what should be heard in that story. I don't know what the point is, because if this was happening in 2000, did we consider some kind of budget rebalance here in 2001 for 2001? When it comes in 2001, we will also be able to ask the minister why some things happened, and they were not in front of the congregation. Or maybe in the Serbian Parliament what counts for the place doesn't count, so if you have to rebalance the budget in the municipality, maybe it doesn't have to be in the Republic. It is certain that there is no need to talk about 1996 in 2002, because when we get to some elections, they will be when they will be, Maybe that would be best, no choice, and then you last forever, except theoretically, you can't. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] Probably, when this goes by, if we play catch-up again, if in some next election campaign someone talks like you in the previous election -- there's no rematchism, there's no this, there's no one, and then there's something more like Shiptar blood revenge than rematch, rematchism is a kind word for some things that have been done. I don't mind, I don't recognize myself in any of those stories. As someone who's in the National Socialist MP group, I don't think this is going to work for the government or the minister, and it's probably going to come back as a boomerang in another story today, tomorrow, these days, as a boomerang, but what anyone's looking for, that's what he gets.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24635	This concludes the morning part of the session. The work continues at 15.00 hours. The first registered speaker in the afternoon session is MP Branislav Blazic. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work in the afternoon session. Please continue to work to determine if we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for work and continue to apply for a word in the principle debate on the Final Budget Act for 2000. There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where the Ministry of Environmental Protection was mentioned, in the context of some connection between the Adriatic Football Club. It is said Zrenjanin, which is not true, but it is about "the Adriatic" - Sanad; and to explain, Sanader is one village of about 1,000 inhabitants in the municipality of Choka, a village where there are two cafes and literally there is nothing. There is now a question of moral responsibility, the social justification of all those thoughts and actions of those people who stand here to help the village and help young people stay in the country. Here is the problem of about 34,000 dinars, whose village was helped to clean up the field and to provide shirts, balls, that in the last football league and those kids have the right to play football, not to go to cafes, not to take alcohol, not to use drugs. It is very important now to distinguish between that moral and political responsibility, whether it is someone who says that it is not intended at all competent to compare whether one environment can be healthy if we do not have healthy children in it. Whether this interaction between humans and the environment can exist at all without what is fundamental to these people in that area, which is dealing with some sport. Either we are sinners who wanted to help this village, or are sinners those who invest in profitable sport, so they make big stadiums in Obrenovac, Smedereva, etc.; is 34,000 invested in a village and in young people, to end up staying there, something that is sinful and unintended? So here is the question of the morale of those who treat it this way, especially what they are first to talk about protecting villages and staying young in the country. I am very proud of those 34,000, which the government has succeeded in doing so in that village. If it were luck, we would have done it in all the villages in that environment, because all those villages absolutely deserve it. What's important again here and what suggests thinking is -- what are the reasons then to raise the question that 34,000 were given to one village; whether they did it out of ignorance or out of ignorance, which I can accept, or whether it's about hatred, rematch, the desire to discredit political opponents, according to Stalin's -- we have no proof that you're guilty, but we'll do everything to make you remember it. Or it's a tiny soul, something that's been worn in childhood complexes, and then these complexes are so strong, they can be passed on to some people. It's not a problem with an ordinary man, but the problem is with some people who are in positions and who are in a position to heal some of their complexes by trying to satanicize some other people. What's mentioned here, and it's important to point out, it's about those famous books that have been printed, Professor Dr. Laza Kostic, and the 100,000 that have been given and purchased those books, it's said whether it's statistics, or not it has anything to do with it. Here I have a picture of 200 people giving books to Vladika Banatski, Mr. Hristom, 10 books of Laza Kostic, precisely because they can't give the Vladika any book about the propagation of rainworms, or something from the environment, when he avenges an ecological tap. Either it's someone's fault that we gave it to Vladika, or we were supposed to buy some calendars, or we were gonna spend that money on lunches, because it's all worth one three good lunches. So when we think about it that way and we see the examples that you're pointing to, then we come into a position to really think about how honest this report is and how much is in the function of some truth and desire that some of the things that have happened might be revealed? I don't want to comment at all and get into it, because it's not my area and I don't want to comment at all whether or not it was, but now I have the right to doubt, counting on these two examples, and I certainly find it morally and socially responsible, that a lot of things have been written and that many people have been called and, in such a way, anathemised, and that it shouldn't have, which shows that we are still very far from tolerance and democracy, that many people are still closer to that communist system and communist beating, that when they have no evidence and arguments resort to any kind of pressure on people, they resort to the pressures of the judiciary, the prosecution, at all, to achieve their political goals.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24638	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24639	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, has repeatedly put the government and its ruling majority on the agenda of this assembly home and then withdrawn the Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2000 from the Assembly's agenda. They estimated it was the moment when they put it right, so when that time came they came to the conclusion that it wasn't, and so they pulled it back. He passed this law a year ago and through the committees and got the consent to go before the MPs, but here he is only after two years since the end of the financial year 2000. How this law came before us only at the end of 2002, when there is almost no point in discussing it if we do not want to, in practice, joke in this congregation home, only the legislator of this law knows it. I am sure that there is a political motive in the background, and there are problems that arise in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Because why would there be any change in the Serbian government these days, if not? By considering the Law on the Final Account for 2000 and by determining how it says "great, numerous irregularities in it", it seems to me that the government of Mr Djindjic wants to declare the wrong government of Mirko Marjanovic for everything the current DOS government has not done for this people since it came to power. The main attack on the previous government is precisely because the government did not hold to the figures recorded in the law and in the budget for 2000, which is the year after the bombing. In a report on budget control for 2000, 35 inspectors, on the government's orders and on its account, as a authorising officer, without consulting and calling former competent ministers, said such an assessment was simply incomprehensible, if it were true, that it had been two years and none of these ministers were behind the lock. However, these inspectors, not even through their teeth, wanted to get through this report that they were all so-called. non-intentional spending on certain items in the budget sometimes untimely, but covered by official government decisions and that ministers did not make decisions alone and autonomously. It was inconclusive that report on the implementation of the 2000 budget, and when the government realized that the report could not make the government of Mirko Marjanovic the worst way to blacken the government, it came to the sense that it had done some work since 1996, to support that it was an unnatural, looting, such and such a government, in order to portray it as unnatural. This material has been delivered to the MPs and I am asking you, Madam Chairman, if possible, not to take this time away from me, and it is a report on the finding of financial and material business control and the illegal and non-intentional use of funds intended for the financing of public expenditures of ministries, republican authorities and organisations and funds between 1996 and 1999. I hope, my Leskovci, you've remembered this 100 percent. We were informed by the government that 38 inspectors hired for this job and told us everything and everything, only in one word did she not mention how much money the taxpayers of Serbia paid for this control of four budgets. I suppose these 38 inspectors didn't do this hard work for the glory or the good eyes of the minister, i.e. For free. By reading this report, I must tell you, my dear Leskovcians, that I am under the impression that as soon as the government gets into a little bigger problems and difficulties, it will form a team of hundreds of inspectors, and their only task will be to examine very precisely the work of all communist and socialist governments since 1945 or at least that government that finds material in the archives of Belgrade or the Republic, I am not sure where these materials are. With the illegalities he finds in this short 57-year period, the current government will hopefully be able to convince you, my textiles from "Letex", "Wolf" and "Stiga", that if you believe that in 1999 and 2000 you worked, that you received some kind of church, during the very unnatural authorities, and that now that your factories are literally with locks, you live better. It seems to you, thought and told by the government, my fellow citizens who you are without a job today, that you were better off in 2000 when you worked and produced bar staffs for the military, for the police, for the railways, for those powerful bodies that work in state organizations. You're better off today when the locks are at your factories, that's for sure what the government thinks. You know, fellow MPs, we who come from southern Serbia and who we're uneducated, how right after the second round of last presidential elections characterized us on one of the TVs one of my fellow MPs (who I don't see right now in the O.R., which was this morning), just because we didn't mass vote for Mr. Labus, we really don't understand some things, so I'm going to ask you to clarify them for me. The fact that you think of us in the south that we are uneducated, I say to you - mine and our southern peasant is smarter and smarter and brighter than anyone who has doctored not at Belgrade University but also at Sorbonne, and he knows much more. Laugh, gentlemen, laugh, but I'm telling you, the peasant is what I tell you. Point 15 on page 9 of this report for the period 1996-1999 states that the budget in most cases was executed beyond the purposes and amounts provided for by law in the budget, and this falls under significant forms of illegality. And when the 2001 final budget bill (to mention only that first item in part of the expenditure and not to be tortured, to make it easier to manage, an analytical konto 911-000), the amount of 15 billion 398 and a few thousand dinars for the salaries of state authorities and organisations, and the government, by its solution, increases that amount for salaries to 16 billion 204,000 dinars and pays for the salaries of its state bodies 15 billion and 878 million, is normal. It is not outside the law, it is not a jesting of certain items in the budget, it is not beyond the purposes and amounts provided for in that law. We, uneducated from the south, don't quite understand it, so please, let me see what we're doing wrong. When this government pays under the law 480 million, it's a meaningless thing and it doesn't fall into illegality. It's the best in the world, it's perfect, it's the smartest thing, it's the first time in the history of this country, according to Minister Djelic. It is not illegal for the government to change the law and instead of adopting 15, it decides to distribute 16 billion dinars for the salaries of its organs and organisations, and when the Government of Mirko Marjanovic did so in completely insignificant items, using those funds to help the people, then it is a great illegality. To you, my Leskovci, my countrymen, however, I am telling you that the pay item of the state authorities and organisations in that year 2000 was only 7.5 billion; therefore, it is half of these funds that the government has increased. You see, on that basis, my dears, who is right here and who is telling the truth. We, gentlemen of the DOS, would be grateful to you that in 2001 you spent an unintended amount of money building one bridge of those fifteen million marks you gave Mrs. Kandic, Sonji Biserko, and this year you predict almost 30 million marks for that, if you had made one bridge, we socialists would applaud you. So for me, what is happening today is practically a joke that is happening in the congregation. My countrymen, let me tell you by mistake: "The government and the DOS, the government and the DOS, are still getting attached to the idea that we are not breaking anything. And when they say one thing, we will believe them. They did not know of ours, wherein there is good rakiah, and there is a laziness," and the congregation certainly is no place for such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24640	The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24641	Just a few precisions, first of all, this report is in front of you not because the government has decided, but because of what you have decided. Most DOS and DSS MPs who asked for this supplemental report to be found in front of this respected home. Another thing, as far as the costs of this budget inspection are concerned, these people only received their normal salary; it means, instead of continuing their work in the PDO or RJP, the financial police, they worked on the team, they had the necessary powers to work with those four republican inspectors. It's all very nice, it's all very juicy in the south, and I'm asking if it's okay, Leskovci, that they took $36 million from you, and instead of going to the hospital, someone spent it, so it was in some secret account in Switzerland, so now we found it, and that's why they're going to answer. I'm asking the Leskovchans is it okay, at a time when it wasn't even for cytostatics, that some hospitals make 8.5 billion donations for some socialists rather than for some foundations? I don't think so, Leskovci. It's juicy, but it's sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24642	The People's Messenger Vladimir Garčević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic. I ask the People's Messengers for order and peace in the hall, that an apostle who has a word be heard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24644	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, dear fellow MPs, I expected that after two years we would consider something else, and the report that you, Minister, are talking about is not on the agenda. Read it, this is on the agenda. Keep the material in your hands. I've got a few issues. I think it would be correct if you gave in an explanation what conditions were done, what was done in the previous period, what was good and what wasn't. If you, Minister, transfer funds from one account to another, and you don't put yourself in your pocket, I will support it, and I will always vote for it, and I won't look at it as criminal or material offense. Why? Here he needed his place to find everything that had gone into the pockets of others, if it had gone and where it had gone. That part is interesting for the Serbian people, for the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, you call all the ministries; whether it is a greater sin to establish a FONAS that has a professional service, which is a quality of protection against drugs and so on, or to prevent it and a greater mistake to establish a JAZAS, which teaches children how to strip, so they are all taken off in Sremska Mitrovica (and not only there), all naked at 12 o'clock in the evening, and you think that these funds are justly spent. I'm telling you they're not. So it's not all that's written here and what's supposed to be standing. Does he have any bills... Please, please, you all voted there to keep Minister Bojic's immunity, not to remove his immunity. It wasn't you, but someone did. On the other hand, I believe that this period has passed and whoever takes it for himself will answer. There's no dispute about whether it's the government or the opposition. But there is a dispute over the fact that in 2000 10,000 apartments started to be built without being finished even today. There's a dispute in the fact that in 2000 bridges were built, but after that we didn't see it. It is that the ministry has not taken care of its education salaries enough, and I can blame it on the ministry. But, please, by the total involvement of the ministry in the last year, Mrs. Kace Lazovic, to improve the situation, there was little and there could be no full expression. However, I would like to see how many schools you have made today when we consider this report further. As far as salary is concerned, it's okay, because they're regular, but I can tell you that it's built and worked in these conditions that are very difficult. Next, if she had to go or not every compensation, well, you know what, when there's not enough money, then people manage as best they can at a given time. I think you're getting along because you're going into budget dubious, so if it comes true, it'll either come true through taxes or it'll be something else. But what's characteristic is that the previous government didn't sell 49% of PTT for nothing, which is done today, and I'm going to tell you that in certain agencies that appear on the market there are the names of many ministers, although I haven't seen yours, which will buy, for example. Sugars in Sremska Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24645	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24646	The MP noted another way in which, not in 2001, but in years before, it preserved social peace in one way or another, that is, how this regime was maintained. You mentioned the sale of Telekom Srbija and that is very indicative, although of course it is not the subject of this budget inspection; the part-round inspection includes public enterprises, but simply the team did not get to it by looking at the ministry. I don't think you're very instructed to talk about Telekom Srbija today when Italian justice hears various witnesses or when we find various businessmen who themselves admit Italian justice that they took 16 million marks on two occasions, which are in secret Swiss accounts, because in no case can it be considered a good operation for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24647	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24648	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since October 2000, when the coup, revolution, violence (whatever you turn), the burning of television and the Federal Assembly, DOS has taken power, has started a political hack and a haranga against all those who think differently, all those who have opposed them, so that someone might not think that in the next period of power, the regime does not oppose, without giving them a different word, does not express a different opinion, and in particular does not make it any more difficult. I have to say that the report that we got on almost 300 pages is exhausted, extensive, but it's interesting that for 2001 we didn't get such a report. It seems much more important to prepare such a report for 2000, as a means of political reckoning with those who do not think the same as the regime's political parties, rather than to do so for 2001. When it comes to the final account for 2000, the year is the second or third time this is on the agenda. Each time it has been used as a political tool to deal with political opponents. Every time the newspaper spent dozens of days and weeks writing the worst possible things they could about opposition parties, their representatives, their presidents, and at least they wanted to write about what was really going on. In the end, we also experienced that individual officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (officers, not even officials) were attacking prosecutors and judges for not leading to a certain act of their criminal application. For the sake of the public, criminal charges don't mean anything. Criminal charges can be filed by anyone. Everyone is authorized to file that application. But let's see where the judgments are against who and when they will come without individual officials insisting on it, and I mentioned not even the officials. It speaks much more of power, of regime, than of anything else. Much more, because the government, the regime, thus showing that they want to have full, absolute control of the judiciary, to keep the prosecution as an independent function, independent even of the judiciary, that they want and that they can subjugate all those, even in the media sphere, who will at any time do this dirty work. I'll give you an example. Just three or five days ago, he appeared in the daily newspaper title, just ahead of the presidential elections (on which again the biggest growth was shown by Dr Vojislav Seselj, a Serbian opposition party candidate), they say -- a criminal application. What's a criminal report? Today we saw - the transfer of money, or the government, made a decision to go to the flooded areas of Jagodina, Rače and Batocina. But there was no explanation, no explanation. They didn't want to say exactly what it's about, but it's only important -- attack a man, tell everyone the worst about anyone, especially who you think is different, about who allowed that luxury to think differently at the time of your "democracy," well, that one has to be put on a pillar of shame. Of course, there are those, I would not say abuse, but the most difficult things that must be sanctioned, especially when it comes to keeping money and taking interest from business banks and so on, but there are judicial authorities. When a judicial verdict comes, it can be said, not here to wave criminal charges as a judicial verdict. There are hundreds of criminal charges against many people, and they have nothing to do with those criminal charges. That's what it's all about -- let's distract the public a little bit, now we're going to tell them what these are, so they don't talk about what kind of highway job Chume got from the Surcin mafia, how some other jobs were getting and who and what it is today in Serbia. As is said, it is unintendedly spent by being given to this and that factory, social peace has been preserved, and today social peace is being preserved by selling sugars for three euros or for one euro, as many as three euros, I have gone too far. Everything will go bankrupt until there are three euros to be given for it; I did not buy it for three euros, bought Miodrag Kostic, a known New Sad criminal. I don't know about the others, and for him I know he bought one for sure, for the others I don't know who bought...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24649	People's MP, I would ask you to return to the topic, and if you have an attitude that only verdicts can be spoken of, not applications, then don't express your views on other people. Of course I won't count on you that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24650	I'm just asking you not to count on me this time, so you don't count on the SRS parliamentary group. So, I wanted to say one thing. We were here in the Assembly at the beginning of work since January 2001, we had one, I would say, a difficult period not only of disagreement but of fierce political reckonings. It's always better in the Assembly than on Serbian streets. After that, it seems to me that we have entered a more peaceful period, a more normal period of relations, I would say collegiate, political opponents, but without as much bile as before. What you're trying to do and what individual officials and individual officials are doing is not going to be a good thing, because this conflict is going to happen again. You're not going to scare us with any criminal charges or threats or anything else. We're getting ready, and that's it, that even in the next election we get more votes, we're getting ready to win, and then we're gonna make final accounts. I'd just like to ask you, we've now received a statement from the Kolubara employees about the strike announced by 11, for tomorrow, so it would be good for someone to tell citizens and the people of Serbia about this, why they live every day more difficult; only on TV are they represented by some fairy society, how much better, much better, and the people of bread no longer eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24651	The People's Messenger Radojko Petric has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24652	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, given the very difficult economic, social and political situation in Serbia, would be normal for us to consider today an important law that gives hope to improve the situation. That's what citizens expect from this congregation. Since this is the first item of the agenda, it was an even greater obligation for the Assembly to discuss a really crucial issue. However, we are discussing the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, we are discussing 2000 at the end of 2002, and I am not saying that the final budget account for 2001 should have been adopted long ago. The DOS has repeatedly stressed that it is working hard and successfully on institutional reforms. Is this the issue of the final budget account for 2000 in the function of completing the institutional reform process? The answer is definitely negative. Because of such a way of working, citizens lose confidence in parliament. Normally, they lose confidence in members of parliament as their representatives. With the loss of confidence in parliament, citizens lose confidence in the process of change and reform. This is best seen in the case of poor voter turnout. Since mid-March 2001, when we received a proposal for a final account, i.e. In 21 months, as we've heard, we've been going back to that same question over and over again. I'm not really sure after all whether this debate is going to end this time, or if we're going to debate again, because there's going to be an interruption, and then a postponement, etc., as there has already been here today, advocacy for that approach. It doesn't take much wisdom for every citizen to realize that the goal of this multiple return to the same subject is that DOS compromises as much as possible and shows in the ugly light of the SPS and the previous government, while hiding its failures. In previous discussions and in public, DOS representatives have repeatedly stressed that huge illegal and non-intentional spending of funds has been made in the budget. It is noted that several criminal charges have been filed on the basis of inspection records, as well as applications for commercial offences and offences. No one's asking for real offenders to be free of responsibility. However, the facts say that it is less - more formal rather than essential failures. And the fact that there are no fundamental failures tells us that almost two years later, there are no reports that any of these persons are being punished. It is known that filing charges do not mean that criminal acts, commercial crimes, and violations were actually committed. On the basis of suspicions and desires, punishments are not pronounced. The existence of a criminal offence, of a commercial offence and of a criminal offence is determined only by the court and by the criminal authority, according to the procedure carried out and on the basis of evidence. Outside these institutions, no one has the right to judge and judge in advance. Individuals seem to forget the constitutional principle that no one is guilty until a judicial verdict has established it. As an example of the delivery of flat-rate and false data, Djelic can serve today's statement on the non-refundability of Užička Banka's loan. He said that bank went bankrupt. It's a complete lie. It's a healthy financial organization that is, by all indications, the strongest bank in the Zlatibor County. She made the merger two years ago and teamed up with the Vojvodina Bank, also with a first-class bank. It would be correct for Minister Djelic to come out for this pay phone and correct his statement. As the budget spending in 2000 is seen in more detail, there have been no fundamental gaps. The budget was mainly implemented in accordance with the public consumption policy established when it was adopted. There was normal short-term borrowing due to an unbalanced inflow of funds. The then republican government rightly identified priorities, providing funds in excess of initially envisaged but extremely important issues for the whole of the Republic. This is the case with student and student standards, agrarian production, production in certain enterprises and the like. Is it a sin that the government has provided for a student standard of 793 million dinars instead of initially projected 345 million? Is it a sin that these funds have been used to equip and renovate several dorms and protect student standards through a favourable accommodation price for 17,000 students and a favourable price for the diet of 47,000 students? Should we stress what that meant for students and their poor families? I remind you that now the diet in the dorms costs five and a half times, and the accommodation six times, in an underage two years. And not to mention multiple increases in tuition and that the government is introducing a system that only children of wealthy parents can be educated. Is it a sin that the then government, in 2000, increased the student standard by 100 million to 201 million? Is it a sin to provide an additional 454 million dinars for a subsidy in agrarian, producing oil, sugar beets and mineral fertilisers? Is it a sin that in order to start production in the flag and in other companies it provided 2.282 million dinars instead of 680 million planned? The current government does not support the successes achieved by the government at the time, in well-designed approaches to the collection and use of funds for very important and stimulating intentions for Serbia's development. They forget to achieve results in the resolution of the consequences of NATO destruction. I remind you of the restoration of 42 road bridges, 15 railway bridges, the restoration of hundreds of houses, schools, hospitals and homes of culture. What did this government restore and build? She has suspended the construction of 10,000 apartments for young and professional staff. It has stopped the activation of construction, the economic branches that drag and other branches into activation and further development. The next item of the agenda is the final budget account for 2001, for which the current government is responsible. We will see that there have been formal gaps in the last year, and an increase, i.e. a decrease in spending in individual positions compared to the adopted budget. It's not the end of the world now. Let's be principled, let's treat the government in 2000 as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24653	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24654	In accordance with Article 88. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly clearly define that the National Assembly decides, in particular, on any proposal to amend and supplement the proposed agenda, and that the National Assembly decides on the agenda as a whole. We have received a consolidated text of the agenda, which clearly states that the first item of the agenda is the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the document submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 6 December 2002, Deputy Prime Minister Joseph Kassa signed a proposal for the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget. There is also the material of the budget inspection, a report on the work of the financial inspection sector for 2000 and, unfortunately, a report was submitted for the period 1996-1999. I really don't see why, from the finance minister to the next, the debaters for this speaker are dealing with that 2000 report, which is not at all the subject of discussion, because it's not on the agenda at all. I also don't think it should be on the agenda or the material Mr. Kasa delivered for the period 1996-1999, as the agenda item is the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2000. In this sense, the fact must be clearly pointed out: yes, it was a projected social product of 14%, it was only 5% in 2000, but by September 2000 the social product was 18.5%, and the last three months were not produced at all and the decline was 5%. A previous speaker is right for this speaker that in 2000, however, the government of the Republic of Serbia fulfilled significant parts related to social activity and social giving, although it was the first postwar year. I would ask that we limit ourselves to the agenda, because I believe that Article 88 has been broken. Rules of Procedure. We've decided what's on the agenda and we're not the investigative judicial authorities here, we're the Assembly that's considering the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24655	Since I'm obliged to give you an explanation, I believe there is no violation of article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the first item of the agenda is the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2000, and the report of the budgetary inspection is a contribution to the first item of the agenda; it means it is not the item of the agenda and since the contribution of the MPs has the authority to discuss the contribution as well. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24656	Ladies and gentlemen, the easiest thing to do is to get the minister involved in politics and even the judiciary, and then get him out of the O.R. when it turns out that what he's doing is unnecessary and actually doing at his own expense. You delivered the material here, you dared, you dared to discuss the period from 1996 to 1999, even though the final accounts for that year were adopted in the National Assembly and the Government, which were resolved by the adoption of the final budget accounts. You're putting under the bat of all previous congregations. The assembly only exists since you took over most of it, but, don't forget, this isn't revolutionary in 2000, in which perhaps before the end of the year you could hang us in the streets. This is the year 2002, the end, you showed how much you are worth and what you can do and what this report itself is made up of public blackmails given by the minister, when we did not adopt the agenda in general at the last session, the minister told pensioners that he would not receive pensions because the Assembly refused to put the 2003 budget on the agenda. Everyone here in the O.R. knows they're lying and that pensions wouldn't be questioned. Even if we don't adopt the budget until the end of March, you have the right to temporary funding, and you all know it well. Furthermore, the minister has blackmailed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you know it very well. Until a few hours ago, there was no money at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The minister said -- there is no money until lawmakers decide to adopt the 2003 budget. Who is this minister to blackmail the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Whose money does that minister share? You sent us a 300-sided budget report of 32 billion people's money, and now you're proposing a budget of 261 billion dinars. We have a 50-page final account worth 234 billion dinars. We're telling a story, telling fairy tales for little kids about a budget inspection. You brought in, you say, people from Customs to carry out budget control. Where are those people? Where did their expertise in conducting a budget inspection? Podikovka's shoes are worth 100 marks, he's a co-owner of a private store. The easiest thing to do here is to bring out and tell passwords and demagogues how the government distributed funds. We will come to this, if you stay for a month or two in power, that we are responsible here and for the funds invested in defending the country against aggression, but it only speaks of you and it only ruins you the number of votes you win in the election. Look at how it lasts and how it spreads your agony, permeates the entire DOS, all its structures, everything that's come from DOS has gone through some rot, some smell, because you've come to the wings of the revolution, and now you can't bring voters out in enough numbers into the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24657	People's MP, I'm warning you on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24658	Why don't you tell us here if you were able to carry out a budget inspection in Serbia's MUP, whether it was untouchable and now before this inspection, on the 2001 bill. Did you question Covic where he spent his money? Has the MUP provided you with a detailed report, and the MUP and you, as well as we do, brings most of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then you would see, my dear gentlemen, how much money each of you individually costs voters in Serbia. We've been at your wallpaper for two years, and you've been investigating what we've been doing while we've been in power, and you've been looking forward to finding something that we could be convicted of. Don't take any more criminal charges. Serbia's constitution is clear and loud. Article 95 begins with words - courts protect freedoms and rights of citizens... Milka Marinkovic: Not a thief. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24659	Just get back on the subject and no one will bother you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24660	Did you hear the intruder I got at the pay phone here?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24661	Of course, and I often hear you throw you out of the parliamentary bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24662	So there are thieves in this government now. Since it was in the past, there is also in this power of thieves. I can prove it, give me a little bit more time to get the papers out of the drawer and I'll immediately prove to you who the thieves are in power, and let Milk out to tell you who the thieves were while we were in power. Article 96 courts are independent and independent in their work, and you are constantly pressuring judges for no charges. That's because we haven't done the lustration. You don't have a single charge against someone from the former government. Is it not clear to you that there is no material here, that you have nothing to call for? You can shake journalists, shake their pants from you and publish everything you give them, but you can't, you've trampled their dignity as hard as you can, and they're not going any further. Now they, finally, and after that pressure and after yours, decided to do their job as best for the citizens. If you're saying there's no pressure on the judges, why are you talking about the reports you filed? Why are you giving the press the names of the people you filed charges against? Thousands of applications today can be filed against each and every one of you. Is that going to be published? Or, say, for the crimes you've committed or done in these two years. Is that gonna be any of the press releases? Or, I know the time is at an end, and what are you waiting for now that the power has changed? What do you think if you hired 40 budgetary inspectors, why don't we hire 140? Because I am more professional than Ceda Jovanovic and the Minister for this matter today, I will certainly be one of those, and I will, Mr. Cedo, with special pleasure to investigate for the crimes you have committed since you are head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24663	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24664	Mrs. Micic, a respected presidency, there is an unwritten bad rule, but very functionally: if you want to catch someone in stealing, hire a thief, because he knows best how to do it. If you want to control us, we're at your disposal. Every day, every hour of the work we do, we stand at your disposal. Please file a criminal report. This is where the SRS MPs were brought out because of the untrueness and insult of parliament, not me personally, but all the radicals of Serbia, Republika Srpska, Montenegro day and night will be able to find us nothing. Trying to do our job, we didn't get to the end of what's left of you. Mr. Nikolic, as far as you're concerned, believe me, it's embarrassing for me to speak in front of Parliament and in front of the citizens watching us about what you left behind. For that reason, after all the criticisms I've brought to your account, I will publicly commend you, because you are one of the few who were obliged to pay the extraprofit tax, which he did. You should be appreciated for that and I respect you for at least one part of which you have shown that you respect the laws of this country, confirming that we who brought them were right when we recognized the extraprofessors among you, after a decade in which our country with the people was humiliated and destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24665	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The next person to be declared is MP Zivanko Radovanchev. The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 12 minutes, and three speakers are registered for word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24666	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2000 is on the agenda. For the sake of the public, this is not the implementation of the government budget of the Socialist Party of Serbia, but the implementation of the budget, with one quarter of that time, DOS. It was during that last quarter of the budget that the chief commander for the implementation of this budget was none other than the vice-president of the then transitional government Nebojsa Covic, so I am amazed that the Democratic Alternative will not vote in favour of the final account. If he doesn't have to, neither will we, why should we vote, although we support the final bill, because he is an indicator of how to make a report on budget implementation in one year. Not only because it has 260 pages, but because every ministry report has as many items, clearly and precisely, where the money is spent, how many entire budgets, for example, for 2001. It shows how to work transparently. So it's transparent to announce where the funds are spent, and that's only 32 billion, and here for three times that, for 120 billion. Seven times more now, but here in the report, not what's on the 50 pages, but there's no exact data on where that money was spent, except for the general item, other than the general acclaims that money was spent on globally: for sport 100 million, for this 200, for which sports clubs, for which sports organisations, for which other funding domains in any other ministry we're talking about? It all says very precisely here. This is the value of this budget, how other budgets should be discussed in 2001 and 2002, if we want 'transparent', as you say, to say where the money is spent and to account for everything spent on Serbian citizens. Of course, you can say it's not 32 but 50, with funds, but also 50, it's far more. The question arises -- they are the same citizens, only 700,000 fewer workers. These same citizens, with 700,000 fewer workers next year with this budget that we'll talk about a little later, need to explain how they endured it, those 7-8 times more spending or what they had to pay for, and yet there's no explanation where that money was spent. This has as many explanations as you want, where money has been spent and how this government has succeeded, a year after NATO bombing, to ensure the functioning of life, the government of national unity, and the transitional government, to be very precise. How does this work in a transitional government, for example? I succeeded as a youth minister and sport minister to provide a million dinars for that hall in Vrsac "Milenium", and, for example, in the transitional government, Covic, as co-chair of the government, managed to secure 20 million. I think that's good. It's just a matter of influence. You see, he managed to secure funding through the Ministry, so that this hall could be over, which is a big deal. It simply shows - this is non-purpose, and this is intended, probably. When it comes to how to fly or not roll with names, two years with this report, they roll names and just from the man who said here today several times that he shouldn't roll with names. What's her name? My name was dominant here, and that makes sense. I'm the secretary general of the opposition party. It's logical for her to be on the agenda. Watch out for what has been done for at least a year and a half at least 50 times in the list of "Today", but also in "News", where the main influence is, says: "A longer decision has been made to give 10 million for humanitarian aid to Serbs in July and August 1999, so that they have something to eat, so that terrorists do not starve." This is a criminal offence, which the PIV made a decision, and in Article 6 of the Interim Executive Council of the province's government, which only had the authority to dispose of the current budget reserve, it says that the PIV decision is spending the current budget reserve. Of course, it fell. Read now in the report that it fell, that the prosecutor refused, so that my name was not returned again, then a second lawsuit must be brought, which is that PIV has decided to give the NGO 3.5 million dinars - the Peace and Tolerance Centre, in order to buy 10 bakers, three in Pomoravlje, three in the Kosovo County, three in Kosovo, one in Strpec, so that those in Kosovo Mitrovica don't go to the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica to buy bread, or those in Plemetina don't go to Vučitrn and those in Strpce would not go to Urosevic. Now it's a crime, which we have decided to give to the NGO in this budget of 3.5 million, and in this budget, this government predicts giving 650 million to NGOs. Unfortunately, it's not spent money on the humanitarian law fund, it's spent on 10 bakers. It's a non-violence by name. I can't and I won't ask here how some minister decided to pay for billboards, or commercials on television or here, over there. I believe he has it in his financial plan. How someone in a hospital financed it and on which radio-television was advertised, ask him. Where he thinks he's gonna make the most of it. I'm not asking if the "Akcept Media" or someone else's, "Alma Quatro" or somewhere else is going to pay for the billboards. That is the matter of him who decides, so ask him. It's that roll of names and that principle in this budget. If it were principled, this report on the 2000 budget would have been adopted a year and a half ago, because it's simply your work, because you're one-third, and you took part in that one-third. Therefore, it was not the intention, it was the intention of discussing this final account actually covering the final account for 2001 and possibly the 2003 budget. That is the essence of this debate today, and that is the essence of what essentially happened in 2000 in this budget that is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24667	The word is from the People's Messenger Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24668	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I have thought for a long time first of all whether to take part in the principle debate in a serious way, when it comes to this topic. This tall home has defined me, and it binds me above all to seriousness. The time when we are discussing the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, with nearly two years of delay compared to the time when this was to be discussed, and after a year since this point was removed from the agenda of the 2001 assembly session, most specifically speaks of the current government's intentions on the subject. I don't even know why this item was removed from the session agenda a year ago. In the meantime, especially in times of crisis between DOS members, or in the pre-election period, this topic has been used for day-to-day policy purposes in a trendy and dirty way. The current power for two years, in exchange for unfulfilled pre-election promises, offered the people (and today) the answer that the improvement could not and could not happen, since the previous government, directors of public enterprises, then ministers and officials in the governments of the Republic of Serbia stole everything, even more than they could expect before coming to power. The way, insolence and insolence that almost two years of current power has exploited the issue of irregularities and crime in the financial year 2000 and earlier has been a precedent that has not been recorded so far. When I have already used such difficult qualifications at the expense of the current authority, let me explain them, even if it was used in that explanation by its own negative experience. I can understand any kind of political struggle and conflict, which basically offers a message to citizens, i.e. voters, that the other political option does not carry out its promises, does not pay enough attention to citizens' interests, as the opposite political option has the wrong programme, etc. In these and such political conflicts, which I consider normal, there is a line below which you cannot go. This line is a line beneath which it attaches itself to the integrity and human dignity and the reputation of each individual. This reputation lies in the area where I come from, largely through the reputation of the family inherits, preserves, confirms, builds, and gives descendants an inheritance. Does anyone have the right to go so low in such a political struggle? This current government, brought by electoral victory, has become reckless, pointing to the reputation and dignity of us who have been in the institutions of the system for a longer or shorter time, and using lies and pressures on police officers, the prosecution and the media want us to be portrayed as criminals, who stole and kidnapped from the state. At the very end, I will be quite personal and, on my case, confirm all previous allegations of evaluation. I spent three months in the transitional government during 2000 and in 2001. I learned from the public information funds that a criminal report was filed against me. The business control process of the Ministry of Agriculture was carried out in 2000 and a record was drawn up, which was supposed to satisfy, probably, the employer, without being informed of it at all or was given the chance to make remarks on the record that was drawn up. According to this report, I am guilty of honoring the agreement reached at the college and the transitional Government of the Republic of Serbia, to pay every employee in the Ministry of Agriculture 4,000 grand bought in the C-market at the end of 2000 for improving the material position of employees at the end of 2000. It's easier to say, an investigation has been opened for payment of bonuses for a warm meal to workers in the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm also responsible for receiving 4,000 dinars in payment of these bonuses for a warm meal, and control found that, 41 people who were not employed at the Ministry of Agriculture received 4,000 dinars. I do not dispute the allegations, since I had no chance or need to check, but it is the minister's funny responsibility, as if the minister is a cashier who shares his hot meal stamps in 29 districts and in Belgrade officials in the agriculture ministry. These are my sins, which are why for almost two years, when it's of interest to the current government, I'm not leaving the MUP, and I'm not getting off the pages of the press and the electronic media. I'm not just saying this for you in the O.R., but more for the auditorium that's following this transmission, especially for the people of Zrenjanin municipality and all those who know me and my family. Unlike most of my colleagues who are engaged in this report on the final budget bill for 2000, I am, because of the fact that I am also an MP, yet in a privileged position to tell the truth in person. That is why it would be correct for today's session, because of the truth, to be present with all those mentioned in this report, if this government cares about the truth at all. And at the very end, do not interfere with the mind that mounted criminal processes, as well as the attack on face and honesty and dignity, are never forgotten. Remember first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24669	With this discussion, MP Zivanko Radovanchev took advantage of the SPS parliamentary group's time. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask - is one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not use this right under Article 89 apply. Rules of Procedure? He has the word MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24670	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the National Assembly, as I said in the first part of the presentation on this agenda, is not on the agenda a draft budget bill for 2000. There's talk here of a report, political evaluations being given. The proposaler's intention is clear -- at this difficult time, when reality cannot be explained, let's hit on the Socialists. For now, it is our only weapon to explain to the citizens of Serbia how bad lives are being lived. Of course, this story is not a long story, but two years have passed since 5 October and Serbian citizens see perfectly well how the DOS government is working, i.e. It's not working. That's what these election results show, and that's where it's over. But for the sake of truth, and colleagues who have mentioned it, I must say that there are also concrete examples in this material that absolutely demonstrate the political intention that the SPS and the people who were in the Government of the People's Unity and at the head of the ministries qualify without any valid evidence. As the government did, or the government ordered this report, and as the perpetrators did, one parallel with the 2001 Final Account Proposal best shows. There is a crystal clear view of the true purpose. In fact, the fact is that this job was done by people who were not competent for the job, who came from the state level, worked in the SDK, and had little to do with the budget of the Republic of Serbia; and, apparently, the task that was to be done. Here's the evidence, the same things are completely contradictory, depending on whether they're SPS or DOS. A report on the control of the implementation of the government budget for 2001, on page 42, said that funds were used during 2001, the funds of the current budget reserve, used within the amount of the government's planned solutions; in several cases, the funds of the current budget reserve were used in excess of the amount foreseen by the government's decision; that the government's decision of February 2002, and that the implementation of the 2001 budget, there was no extended budget year, since the law laid down amounts to cover more payments on the assets of the current budget reserve than the existing solution. The government's solution is neither certified nor signed, nor published in the official messenger, as if it doesn't exist. Therefore, the findings are drawn up, followed by an assessment of the inspection: no irregularities in the non-purpose use of the budget have been identified with regard to accounting documentation and records of the use of funds. Also, the assessment: the control of the use of fixed budget funds has not identified irregularities. That's how it works for 2001. Here's how things are when it comes to 2000, about the same fact. There are qualifications completely different. In the context of the examples of so-called illegalities and irregularities established under point 8 it is stated that the funds of the current budget reserve have been used in a large number of cases and that no decision has previously been made in accordance with the regulations and that the total unlawfully spent funds of the current budget reserve amounted to 992 million dinars. The correctness, professionality and impartiality of the controls, that they existed and did not, demanded that the funds were transferred, that at the time of the transfer there was no government decision, which is valid for both 2000 and 2001, and for one and the other, the government subsequently made appropriate decisions to approve the use of these funds. Even when it comes to 2001, after the end of the calendar year, in February 2002, the solution was not approved, it was not signed, it was not published. Nevertheless, it is estimated that there was no accidental use of the funds of the current budget reserve. When it comes to 2000, then the inspection estimates that it is illegal spending of funds. The control was not seen, because of course she did not want to see, nor to find out, that for 2000 there were two conclusions of the government of the Republic of Serbia, from October and December of the month, and a solution from 29.12.2000 on the use of these funds, a solution that was duly approved and signed. The control has been silent and has hidden that there are conclusions, decisions, government solutions, and the orders and inspections know why, but we socialists too -- out of fear that everything will be filed by criminal and other applications, after this and similar knowledge of the authorities, to collapse like card towers. This example shows that the same facts for 2000 and 2001 are qualified differently: for 2001 as orderly business, everything is fine, and for 2000, in the same factual situation that is even better founded - as crime, as illegal spending of funds. I have a lot of material here that provides concrete answers to the questions that have been asked. For the sake of time, I will mention only a few; and one of the reports mentioned, at the Ministry of Labour, that a certain amount of funds above the price was paid in social protection institutions. It should be said that the founder of social protection institutions (and these are homes for old people, homes for retarded persons) is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the prices of accommodation in these institutions are kept at very low levels, because there were no funds and were not properly paid. You know why, you just don't want to say it. The cost of accommodation is not timely, neither from the Ministry, which is a mistake, nor from health insurance for health care; in these institutions there is a large number of refugees for which no one has borne any costs; the jobs in these institutions are very difficult; there are fixed persons, retarded persons; the profits have always been the lowest in the Republic. Social protection funds have never been used more than 80% of the budget-planned funds during this period; at the end of each year, only minimum costs are covered in institutions so that they will not be extinguished. I have here a letter from the North collective to whom it is put to the soul that they have sold, that they have made a contract with the Ministry of Finance harmful to the state; very taxing people state that "North" has signed an agreement, that everything has been done in accordance with the law, that this contract has been subject to expert analysis and that no one is damaged, except that it is placed on their souls, that they have granted their representative object for small money. It is put on their souls now, at a time when privatisation is carried out and social and state-owned assets are sold for virtually a wake-up call, and someone has found themselves smart to complain to them and to file criminal charges for it. When it comes to people who have done this job, it is often said with indignity -- four people in a budget inspection. I have here data relating to 1996, where it is said that this budgetary inspection of four people has been carried out by 133 users, that it has been found that 8.7 million dinars have been spent, 2.61 million dinars have been returned after the budget inspection order, and in 18 cases, solutions have been made to return money, and five responsible persons have been charged with criminal charges. It's just as an indication that she was absolutely budgetary inspection and she was doing her job during that period. Now, the question arises -- how four people can do the job, in 2000, and you saw it in this final budget account for 2000, the number of entities they controlled, and in 2001 (and we'll talk about it at the next point) when there were 50 of them, the number of entities they controlled is smaller. Why? Because they have received a specific task -- for these people, for these institutions, find anything at all that can be the subject of criminal charges. However, I think the pearl over the pearls is a case related to the stockpiles when criminal charges are filed against the responsible persons for the purposeless use of the funds, based on flour delivered to the bakers, and at the same time the agreement was signed by the group G17 and the bakers, and the delivery of flour has been under way since October 2000, so after that coup on October 5th and until the end of February 2001. During this period, we have a practical situation of delivering 207,000 pounds of flour, worth 1,544,944,000. And now, well, since they have filed criminal charges against a man, since the court, or these other authorities, are doing their jobs, the public is all out, the man is guilty and what are we going to do - the government of the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation of an NGO, the group of G17 (now I hear there will be a political party, and otherwise no one knows what they are) and nice, at the cabinet session (here is the solution that stands here, and the signature of the Deputy Prime Minister, Momčal Perisic) under point 3 makes a decision for intervention orders of flour in that amount and that amount, and the value is 1.544.000, that on the basis of the loan agreement is annexed to the delivery of flour without compensation. I'm very interested in where these 1,544,000 funds will be presented, in which part of this report for 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24671	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24672	Since there is a lot of this, and we have what is spent on, I am telling you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group - if the draft agenda is the draft budget bill for 2000, we will support this proposal. If it's about the report, about how the funds are used, we won't support it, because it's tendant, it's unacceptable to us, it's actually a basis for hunting people, which is unacceptable for the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24673	The Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, called for the word. The minister can pick up whenever he wants, and you'd only like to talk, just listen to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24674	I'd like to say, it's obvious through this debate that every time you try to replace the thesis and it's taken the tiniest thing to cover up the biggest one, and then it's hidden behind some subtice collectives so it doesn't talk about the fact that some ministries have been transferred to a jury account of the SPS, and then there's talk of some bons, that there's no talking about the millions in RZO dollars, and to this day we don't see where that equipment is and what's going on. There is talk of the smallest things that are official, since she has considered all the documents she has come up with, trying to devalue this whole effort; there is no talk of how one villa of 720 square meters was privatized, there is no talk of how donations were given to clear political organisations, whether funds, or any associations, or radios. All in all, I want to say - in what has been done, and I think it is seen, there was no political urge or any source; this team was independent in its operation, she did her job and she started the procedure of official duty, and if it wasn't for someone from the government, from the Ministry; she ordered it not to, like this, because it would have been an interference in what was defined as a task that you in this home, as regards 1996-1999, determined. That's why, of course, when we look at this matter, there's a degree in everything. Some things are much bigger, some are much smaller. I'm sure further proceedings will allow, and without any names of people who have worked, to come to justice. And the fact that there was no flour and bread in October, it was more the responsibility of those who left the land in the state in which we found it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24675	Replica. MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24676	As MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and my fellow MPs, we understand Mr Djelic. There's nothing going on, everything he's touched gives bad results. What he was saying, it's not coming true. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. [[Sagar.]] Remember those stories in 2001 about extraprofit funds, billions of dollars, all that. What exactly do you want? What do you want? Our soul? What do you want? Political responsibility during the time we were in power we paid for the election and don't give us that story... Yeah, right, so what do you want? Don't keep going with that story - responsibility, responsibility. As soon as you find a shade of evidence that something isn't true, that it's malicious, that it's false, you say immediately - an individual case. These aren't individual cases. These are the people you have accused, whose names are in public, for which the court has found nothing, and they are already dressed; and there is no "North," it says black on white, what that collective thinks of that contract and doesn't think it's damaged at all. Don't replace the thesis. I said and I stay on it -- when it comes to the NGO G-17, the government assumes the obligations of NGOs. On what grounds? On the basis of which the Government assumes obligations, political commitments made by an NGO to make the delivery of flour concrete, 1 / 1 544,000, and you're talking to me now - an individual case. What kind of case?- I'm sorry. Say it simply - we want you to be guilty. Well, the other thing is we won't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24677	Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? Here you are, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24678	Dear fellow MPs, this item of the agenda is called the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget. I've been listening to a lot of discussions today, and I feel like everyone's missed out on the subject. The theme is this: the final budget bill for 2000 showed the following facts - in 1999 as a year of NATO bombing, numerous economic facilities destroyed, schools, institutions, education and health, he had numerous victims in 1999, material and physical, he had a destroyed travel business, oil industry and infrastructure. This final account contains facts that speak of the following. First, an absolute revitalisation of the road economy and the construction of bridges in Serbia was carried out to establish road routes. Several dozen bridges were built in Serbia, hundreds of primary schools destroyed in NATO bombing were built, thousands of apartments were built that were assigned to families... This doesn't seem to matter. It's important. who were assigned to families of the dead and wounded, families whose housing facilities were destroyed. The apartments were primarily assigned to families employed by the MUP and the Yugoslav military, as well as families from Aleksinac, Nis and other towns in Serbia where numerous housing facilities were lost and people had nowhere to live. The reconstruction of many economic operators has been made, funds have been given for the restoration of the oil industry, the travel economy and all the other segments I've been talking about. It's the theme of this final budget bill for 2000. Here it stands -- the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There aren't any reports around here, which is mostly used as an interviewer. This final account affirms and restores many basic, fundamental values. He had a total amount of funding from 34 billion to 35 billion dinars, and today only a budget deficit proposed for 2003 by over 49 billion dinars is greater than the total budget used in the areas I was talking about here. They are the result of NATO bombing, the difficult conditions of sanctions we had in the previous period, with an attempt to preserve the economy of this country and preserve perspective and construction. That's what brought us NATO bombing. Today we return to that subject in a completely different way. Many international organisations, this country and G-17 plus found that the direct damage to the state was over $32 billion, not to mention the indirect that was being shown further. Today it is said that we must give up these demands if we are to enter Europe. The question is, which way and who has the right to observe it. When it comes to the final account bill itself, it contains all these facts that have been sublimed, and one general position and the government's attempt at that time was to step out of the situation since 1996 with NATO bombing in 1999. That's what that budget contains. No one's intention is to defend anyone, but we need to talk about these facts. Why did the government not go out with the fact and say how many apartments were made in Serbia in that year, how many bridges were reconstructed and new ones were built, how many travel businesses were restored and how many businesses were recovered, preserved, restored production in these economic operators? You know that during NATO aggression, many collectives and working organizations moved equipment to other locations. The facilities were destroyed, and later the equipment was returned to newly built and renovated facilities. Then, numerous boiler rooms were destroyed, which were heating cities, thermal power plants, many electrical facilities, large trafostations. All those assets and the horrors of this final account are here. These are the essential facts. This is a cheap buy-off after two years and because of these choices that were made this week, this story doesn't need anyone else, and especially not the government... No, no, I'm talking about what everyone should be thinking about, what it's all about in the final account. That detail nobody's going to mention, they're all dealing with trying to find cheap trivial political points. The report should contain this, so if there was anything then it can also be discussed, but essentially the final bill for 2000 carried this policy. It was the policy of the then government of the Republic of Serbia. It's been working on these details. Here is the mention of unintentional and illegal spending, and the sum of these funds has gone to those areas. There are numerous examples after that of accidental spending. So there's a billion-and-something number, but individual examples that try to take out some core and say that everything was thieving in the previous period -- it's just funny to think about this final account for 2000. I can tell you an indicative detail that bothers me, too. It is mentioned that the Republic Administration of Revenue in that period (a certain centre of the Republic Public Revenue Administration) and the financial police gave cigarettes to the military. Who is he going to give cigarettes to in 1999 than the army? They didn't burn, like last year, I don't know how many million dollars that value was, to collect cheap political points. For days they burned cigarettes in TE "Nikola Tesla", so much so that it couldn't be done. If that was a motive, then there's been new evasion for this country, because it's known how cigarettes are handled. They had to be listed and exported to the market and sold, and that was income for the Republic of Serbia's budget. So I think there's a non-intentional spending, or a cheap collection of political points, which costs this country a lot, tens of millions of dollars, and not what cigarettes were given to soldiers during that period. You know what a soldier needed during that period, and one of those things was definitely a cigarette. Whoever did this did a good job. Day and night, people sat in trenches and didn't move from their places. You had to, and I don't know how many people were involved in all this, and I am, and I'm not ashamed of it, and I don't mind being with those people. These are two absolutely different behavioral indicators. Here in that report, and now I'm going to mention it, it mentions as some fact that someone has committed abuse. He couldn't have done the abuse at all, because he seized and took those cigarettes. Since it's also part of the cost of war, they were assigned where they were supposed to be found. Today we burn them to tell an empty story, how we fight in a certain way. And I welcome that success when those cigarettes were seized, and I certainly don't welcome why they're on fire. So, two arches are here. I don't think this people need anyone's cheap political points, but there's black and white. The final bill for 2000 has 99% white in it, fair to this people, and an attempt to save what was saved back then could...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24679	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24680	I'm done. And to give a few examples of them and make a general story about the 2000 budget is ridiculous, absolutely unnecessary and this is today a completely missed discussion on this topic. The point is here, these are the facts of the 2000 budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24681	You've already told us that, People's Parliament, I ask you to do...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24682	I'm done. These are the facts and that's the budget content for 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24683	Thank you. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, I ask, does the proposal's representative, finance minister and economy want the word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in full. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE FINISH ACCOUNT OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2001. YOU received the draft law with a report on the implementation of the 2001 budget of the Republic of Serbia, a report on the work of the budget inspection of the Ministry of Finance and Economy in 2001, and an addition to the report of the Law on the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, with an explanation of expenditure by budget allocations and an addition of the report on the control of the implementation of the 2001 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the opinion was given by MP Slavoljub Matic. Before opening a principle search, I would like to remind you that the total time for debate is five hours and I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of registered speakers at this point in the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24684	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that, in accordance with Article 90, the time for debate is not five hours, but 10 hours. I also think that Minister Djelic will not mind, given that this is an important item of the agenda and that there is plenty of time to be devoted to discussing the final account and spending more than 200 billion dinars in an adequate manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24685	All right, I'll put your motion to a vote. Please determine if we have a decision-making quorum. I'm asking Members of Parliament to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Dejan Michael's proposal to discuss this item of the agenda for 10 hours. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting on this proposal that the debate lasts for 10 hours. For 74, against 62, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of MP Dejan Michaels to extend the debate on this agenda. Once again, I ask the parliamentary groups to hand over the lists of registered speakers on this agenda point. In particular, I would ask you to round up on the lists whether the parliamentary group is in favour or against the proposal, so that we can create a series of presentations of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Economy and Finance want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24686	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the coincidences of the parliamentary calendar have ordered that today, in one day, we begin the debate and the final account for 2001. This is because, above all, the final bill for 2000, but the hand to heart, and this final account for 2001, were somewhat delayed. Better late than never. What would I like to say? In fact, the debate over this 2001 final account for me is, as I mentioned at the beginning in the discussion of this whole package, a very good chance of turning one important leaf in the history of Serbia's public finances and that on the other hand we have the opportunity to take a closer look at what happened in the state register. Personally, and in the name of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am very pleased that I am able to account before you today, in front of this respected home. There's no secret to what happened in 2001 and I expect a very constructive discussion about it. I'd just like to point out, before I get into the core of things, that this final account has two novelties. The first is that it contains a report on the 2001 budget inspection. I would like to point out that no legal provision obliges the executive authority, the government or the finance ministry to submit a budget inspection report with this final account, but the government, my ministry and I personally wanted this report to be in front of you today. And not only that, you will see in that report, it is one first proof that this body within the Ministry of Finance and Economy has its own dose of autonomy, has its own dose of criticism and you will see that it is in no way any body that has been handled; as it has not been handled around these findings from 1996 to 2000, it was not in 2001 either. I also don't know that in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia (though always a man must be careful about these findings), it was often that the executive authority had brought some results, some of the controls that concern him, and that she had no legal obligation to do so, but let it serve us in honor. I am prepared to answer all the questions that may arise from this budget inspection, which shows that everything is not perfect, that of course there are no such abuses and illegal matters, but that much can be improved in the budget technique itself. The second novelty in this final account is that it will be sent (and sure), one independent budget inspection that this esteemed home will impose and request from an independent auditory house, and it will not only be budget control, but will be budget audits, meaning one systematic check of what was going on in the budget register. The decision was made by the government of the Republic of Serbia several weeks ago. It's up to you to adopt that decision, to choose that auditor. The election will be yours and that auditor's report will be yours. He'll come to this house, to his committees, to this session, and he won't come to the government. That, believe me, I'm sure whoever's in the government, whoever's in parliament, will turn one important page and in every way ensure that whoever's in the government knows that every year, an independent auditor will look at what's going on, along with this budget inspection that proves every month more and more of his independence. It is very good for the spirit of parliamentaryism, it is very good for the future of democracy, for the control of the legislative authority over executive power. I can say in person that I am very proud that such changes happen at the moment that I am a member of this government. In this debate and various questions, which this final account has caused, it simply shows that the final account is being taken more seriously in this home. I am sure that the years that come will bring more and more questions and I personally expect that in the years that come this point will cause great discussions, and that is very good. I repeat, whoever's in parliament and whoever's in executive power. Now I'd like to expose about two key points. The first point concerns the implementation of the budget itself, what happened, and the second point - on these budgetary inspection findings and the following steps that were taken, as well as on some additional issues that this home had. Around the first point, I would first like to point out that in 2001 it started with the first quarter, which was implemented according to the temporary funding measures. The transitional government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to propose this temporary financing until the new government of the Republic of Serbia is voted on, which took place on January 25th 2001. In late March, you voted in the 2001 budget. He of course took up the entire budget matter for 2001, including these first three months, but we must note that the implementation of the budget in the first three months was not in the same dynamics and by the same law, as in the remaining three quarters of this year. The second thing we have to mention is that during the year there have been very significant changes both on the income and on the distribution side. I'd like to mention them before I enter a few digits that are in front of you today. As far as the revenue side is concerned, we also decided before the government of the Republic of Serbia started working on the talks with the commissioners and the transitional government decided to phase out these special accounts for the 2001 budget, and by the end of December a number of them had been shut down, so the first progress has already been made on the revenue side. Another progress was made when you voted in late March on a set of tax laws that introduced much more order on the income side. At that time, some twenty regulations, a decision by the executive authority or some fiscal forms which had been unsettled and unsettled were repealed. Many dedicated fees were then abolished, as well as numerous fees, fees, which were in some regulations. That way, starting on April 1st of that year, we had a single united tax system, which no longer had a whole of any bills, had no dedicated income tax, and that's now a reflection that you have in this final account, you have all this time in one place. Is everything in one place? It's not. What's supposed to be in this final account on the income side, and it's not entirely? The esteemed MPs are their own revenues from the budget users. The 2002 budget made real progress at that moment, but in 2001 it was well known that there were these own revenues, but so many things had already been changed that we were technically unable to record fully these federal authorities' own revenues. If we look at the base of what happened on the income side, then we notice that for the first time in 12 years, the tax system has given more than expected. In figures, this means that the nominal incomes were 17% higher than the ones planned, which means -- given that inflation, which was planned with 30%, was higher by about 10.6% than planned -- that in real terms, we had revenues that were 5% higher than planned. In other words, the revenues were 125 billion instead of 107.6 billion dinars. This means that when the tax system, when things came together and put themselves in one place, it started to work more efficiently. Some will say it's because of much higher rates. The answer is no. We haven't increased our rates, but what happened on the receiving side is the beginning of a decadent fight against smuggling, and the greatest success here is recorded in the repression of oil smuggling. Without success in that fight, we wouldn't have this kind of income in our sleep. We also had a decadent fight against cigarette smuggling, and these were the first steps of success on that road, and that also ensured that these revenues were on the level. So, on the receiving side, because of these systemic changes and because of the fight against smuggling, some better discipline in the form of public taxes, I can say that for the first time in the last 12 years there are public revenues, and that they are not "guilty" some new taxes or more rates, the budget has received what is planned and even 5% more; this is one success in implementing our economic reforms and especially tax reforms. If we look at the funds that were planned to cover this time for the first time in the budget deficit, we find that the picture of reality was less favourable for budget implementation, and for two key reasons. First, the privatisation revenues originally drawn on about 70m euros did not materialise, because according to the provisions of the Privatisation Act, we have here, due to the implementation of a public transparent tender relationship, some deadlines that had to be respected. This was caused by several weeks of "lates", according to the original plan, the first inflows since privatisation. These first inflows of privatisation entered (it was the sale of three cements) in April 2002, not in December 2001, as originally planned. The second element that was more unfavourable than what was envisaged is the inflow from international financial institutions, especially from one World Bank loan that should support structural adjustment through budget support, so-called. SAC-1. That's the technical name of that loan. The loan also arrived in the state register, but in February 2002. So it's a two-month difference. However, the loan was originally planned for November and it took place two and a half months later than was planned, not because of some problems, but because technically it was necessary to carry out various preparatory actions in order for everything to be legionitis. Because of that and because the projected donations, although, as you can see, slightly larger than three billion dinars, that is one success of our government, but also expected inflows were somewhat larger. All in all, when you combine those two key reasons and this third one by much less amounts, it turns out that that budget deficit that was planned will not be executed. That's where I want to draw your attention to a huge difference in public finance management, which has ecldently shown itself in the implementation of the 2001 budget. Taxes were actually something bigger. The funds for covering the deficits were significantly smaller than those that were budgeted. The answer to our government was not to print money, but to spend less. So if you look at the spending side, you'll see that the expenditures that have been made by 127.3 billion dinars instead of 129.4 billion dinars, as originally budgeted. As we can see, it's 2% lower nominally, but it's the same 11% realistically lower than what's planned. The implementation of this budget shows what is responsible and what, believe me, was not easy to do; when it turns out that the funds for covering the deficit will not be present at the same level, instead of resorting to printing money to cover up some problems, we have decided, and this final account reflects that a number of items will not only be reduced in real terms, but be reduced even in nominal terms. That's why we got into a new era of public finances where there's no more money to spend than there is, that what's a financial gobber and what's there is, that it doesn't resort to a variety of quasi-fiscal deficits. Of course, you will notice that this final account shows where subsidies for various enterprises, including public enterprises, including EPS are. So, instead of printing money and giving the EPS for a remont, which causes inflation, it separates in the available funds one hundred million, this time more than one billion dinars, so that the remont can be provided in the right way. It was one loan from the Republic of Serbia's budget of three billion dinars; money that was not printed, money that was separate, money that the EPS had already returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget in 50%. You will also notice that for the first time since World War II, the purchase of wheat has been made from real sources. It's a loan and tax money given to the stock reserves to buy out the wheat. They did it in time, no inflation, no devaluation, for the first time since World War II from real sources. That's the first time our peasants have not received unsuspected amounts. What's less important, they got that money in three wars, in three months, in a day, the moment they filed the necessary paperwork. It also means, and I'm sure in the debate we'll have a lot of stories about all this, that a number of very important items couldn't have been completed until the end. It's not good, but it's much better than printing money and sharing false hopes and fulfilling promises by devoting our national currency or by causing inflation. It seems to me that this budget has been carried out very responsibly, in the sense that, according to the means available, a number of our people's demand, our economy and, of course, a budget that could meet urgent needs, because it should be more and more. Simply, in order to have at the same time a moderate burden on the economy and citizens, it could not be given more than this. I'd like to point out only a few elements of what's been done. That's where you'll find, esteemed MPs, that according to the original budget, the kind you've adopted, there's been some difference. I'd like to point out the differences. You'll see that the position that's bigger than the one that's planned, and that's far the biggest, is a subsidy for the PIO fund. Seven billion more had to be provided for mandatory retirement insurance to get our pensioners 12 pensions on time, without inflation. So, through real money. That item shows very clearly what we're talking about. In 2001, despite the great difficulties, our pensioners would get (as they got) 12 pensions, without the money being printed for these pensions, an additional seven billion dinars were provided in this budget, so that we could pay off those pensions in time, without delay and without printing money. Also, additional funds were needed, according to the original plan, for the ZTP. I can say that this year, we'll see that when we get to the third point of the agenda, it happened again. Simply, after 12 years of collapse, that public enterprise that year, unfortunately, is not able to cover its own salary fund through its own incomes this year either. Not to mention the necessary remonts so the railroad can function normally. As a result, unlike some dedicated tax that existed before and which led to a number of abuses, funds were provided clearly from the budget this time. As a result, the traffic item is slightly larger, so that the ZTP can function smoothly. It is also similar that a number of items have not been made in nominal terms on what has been budgeted. It concerns, first of all, the pay. So what's set out in the salaries was done by 2.4 billion less in the public service domain. Also, if you look at the government's material costs, not just the government, but the government's administration, that position was made by 1.5 billion less than what was planned. And the Transition Fund was made for some 700 million dinars less than originally planned. This is because one number of these programmes began to work, but was not ready to finance that year, but was then financed in the first or second quarter of 2002. Also, slightly less funds were given to the agrarian, because one number of premiums was not ready. I'm not talking about the milk premium here. I'm talking about the tobacco premium, because one number of preparation shops wasn't ready for payment at that point, so it couldn't, according to the law, be paid. That's where I'd like to conclude this first part of this exposure and say that this budget, by its scope, is much more extensive and expresses the reality of our public finances by all the special accounts being shut down during that year. Also, this budget was made for the first time in 15 years in real terms, with slightly higher revenues than planned, which is evidence, given that no new tax has been introduced, even some have been abolished, such as that electricity tax, which was supposed to bring in a billion and three hundred of those years, thanks to the tax administration, provided for the first time the funds and even more than what was in the budget. However, in terms of time-shares and timings of various events, the resources that were necessary and planned to cover the deficits were delayed, some in two and some in three months. Given that we have set out and that we will endure on this particular philosophy that problems cannot be covered up and that they are solved through the printing of money, what was involved in all that was available and the items with some priority have been settled. These priorities were, of course, the payment of pensions, the payment of all social benefits and the provision of normal functioning of our country. Accordingly, several very difficult decisions such as -- what are budget items that could not be implemented to the end? Of course, in some perspective, our budget must be such that all items are implemented in the amount in which they are intended. But it's going to take, I mean, another year or two, until the situation in our country is fully stabilised, and until we're able to predict very precisely what's going to happen. So, macroeconomicly, you'll notice that inflation was by some percent higher than what was planned, but the difference wasn't 0.116, it was 30 to 40. If we talk about economic growth, if the 2000 budget envisioned 14% of the growth, and 5.9% were made in 2001, 5% of the growth was projected, and 5.5% of the growth was made, so we had real assumptions and this budget was realistically implemented. What I would like to say about this second part -- it is an extraordinary honor for me to assume for the first time in this House the finance minister is standing before you and that there is one budgetary inspection, following this budget's execution. And what it shows -- it shows, of course, that abuses in terms of those we've seen in recent years are no longer present, because they are systemically solved in one part, because special accounts have been abolished, and because of that budget inspection. I am convinced: a large number of those who are budget beneficiaries have taken both the budgeting and the budgeting more seriously. But I couldn't possibly allow some kind of demagogy, which should now say that yesterday was hell and that today is paradise. The reality is that in many ways our budget technique in 2001 was supposed to be better and that's true. I want to give you a few examples that came out of that budget inspection. One example is that at the end of the year, some redistributions occur. The third item of the agenda of this session, the budget rebalance this year, shows that thanks to your vote of the Budgetary System Act, this is no longer possible. This rusty habit has been avoided and for every more significant change, in any item, executive power, the government must come before this home that in a legally arranged, good, transparent manner, this home votes budget rebalance. Another thing I'd like to say -- if we look at the very resources of the budget inspection itself, it's certain that in the last year and two years, I'm not personally satisfied with the strengthening of that service and how much it should have been with inspectors, training, the number of people. I can say that one of the big brakes was not only available funds, not only salaries that could be paid for such a responsible place, but also the availability of necessary personnel. We see here that institutional reform is something that lasts, something that can't just legally change. However, the takeover of a number of PDO personnel today, which will officially become members of the budgetary inspection on 1 January, the provision of donor training funds, the provision of the necessary conditions for work for budgetary inspectors, in line with the new systemisation of the Ministry of Finance and Economy adopted three weeks ago by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is one service that will number some 50 budgetary inspectors, who will be present not only in Belgrade, but also in Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, and which I am sure will have a double role in the future, not only after-controls, but, which is also important, an advisory role, so as to help all budget users to work all purposes and by law. That's where I'd like to conclude my exposure to this final account. He does not have the same scope as this before, because according to the tradition of our parliament for the first term, laws are given, which are to be implemented by various ministries. We didn't do it again here, you'll see it in the final account for 2000, a good part of it concerns the notice of those laws that are being implemented and not so much division. We also have the opportunity to get additional information here. In a discussion of various parliamentary groups, the DSS parliamentary group, the DOS parliamentary group -- Serbia's reforms and other parliamentary groups -- asked for further information on this final account. And of course, our government, our Ministry, has no secrets for parliament, the only brake can be deadlines and resources available. I just want to point out that in the Ministry of Finance, to this day, unfortunately, the team that plans and executes the budget and prepares the final account makes up about 12 people. So these are the available forces that have to do this job. That's not enough. In the new systematization of the ministry, when we reach some new rooms (simply, there is no room for more people in the building in Germany 22), we will strengthen the team. In any case, we have tried to answer all the questions raised by DSS parliamentary groups, DOS reform of Serbia and other parliamentary groups. I'd just like to comment on some of the more important questions that have been asked here. I would also like to say that this same service, while this final account debate for 2000, has provided an additional report that answers a number of questions, which have been raised in debate, committees and bilateral talks. We will deliver this report to you as much as today, or tomorrow morning at the latest, so that you will see that one of our own efforts has been made, so that the executive authority will first provide additional information to one final account, which represents the Assembly. I would like to ask my colleague Goran Pitic, if I may, according to the Rules of Procedure, to present what is happening in the domain of donations. Further information has been requested in the domain of donations, but I would leave my colleague Pitić to explain that part. As far as the authorities' own incomes are concerned, I just want to say that these own revenues were not covered to the extent necessary in 2001. It was, simply, technically not possible to do in the first wave, the priority was - all the ends caught on the income side, on the dispensary side to ensure sufficient transparency, not to create quasi-fiscal deficits and start that job to catch all the elements of spending. On the first of October 2001, a very important thing happened to people who might have gone a little further than that budget technique - on that day, the Ministry of Finance and Economy abolished so-called. Passory accounts or accounts of 637, for those who worked in SDK, who led in one wave to much greater insight into what is being spent and in the very own income of indirect and budgetary users. What's in the middle and what happened in the last quarter of that year? The implementation of the budget in Serbia can be compared, if you allow me that picture, with a clot -- the budget according to the resources available separates one part of the resources available and the larger "groups" are transferred directly to the budget user, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and some other budget users. After that, these budget users are making less "crusts" and sending money to the addresses of indirect budget users, and here you have great inefficiency in the system. In this budget "crust" you have the next problem -- money can lie in the account of one direct budget user and be overneeded by someone else. Or, it is possible to have available funds from its own income, without some direct budget user being able to obtain the necessary funds from the budget. Of course, if we look at today, in December 2002, a so-called vault reform that should lead to money being given and paid only when a payment order is available, it will take some time, that is the sixth item of the agenda of this session. In any case, on 1 October 2001, one major advance was made in transparency and the expenditure party was made by abolishing these passing accounts 637. Also, one question was, what happened to the approved loans and what happened to the claims? I can say that all of 2001 and 2002 we discovered more and more budget commitments. Simply, a large number of obligations have not been entered into, a large number of guarantees that are often in an illegal manner and process, procedure, given to certain business banks and other suppliers. Because there was no central record of all this in 2001 and 2002, we are now finishing this job, we have recorded who he owes the budget to and from whom he asks the budget. It's a painful process that's not easy and in the budget control report you see what's recorded at the moment when the budget control was working. Finally, with regard to the question of concessions to budget users, I can only say that this has been regulated by existing laws and that this reform that took place on 1 October 2001, the 2002 budget, has allowed us to have much greater insight into what our own incomes are, what is happening in that register. What's the perspective? That's where I'd like to conclude -- this final account, I think, allows me, for the first time, for this esteemed home to have the necessary information and in time, to debate how it was spent. Surely there are many questions there, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am prepared, as well as my colleagues, to answer any questions you may have. You have this right, the answer and transparency is our duty, but I just want to say that this and transparency in our public finances isn't just something that is passed by decree, these are the profound changes that last. This final account is an important step in improving and seeing in the budget register by the legislative authorities. It is certainly not the end; I would like to inform you that on December 1st, the day before, the procedure has begun, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act that you voted, to prepare the final account for 2002, so that it will be before you at the latest, the Government should adopt it at the end of May of the following year; and it is our legal obligation to submit a full report within that time period. You've got a final account ahead of you. We tried to deliver all the information and for the first time you have, without having any legal obligation, to carry out budget inspections in that domain. And not only that, this is not the end of the 2001 budget story; this home for the first time in the history of Serbian public finances has the possibility, and I expect it to take advantage of that possibility, to take advantage of an independent auditor, who will again look at the government's national register in 2001, and so you can get another independent report on how it was spent in the state register and on what. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24687	I thank the motionary, finance minister, Mr. Djelic. I'm asking if the committees want a word. No, I don't. Does the MP who singled out the opinion, MP Slavoljub Matic, want a word? Here you go. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24688	My fellow MPs, I gave my opinion seven days ago expecting to put pressure on the rest of the ministries to supplement this report as well. the final account of its financial business reports. I do not dispute the hard work that the finance ministry officials have made, and in particular Minister Djelic, and we believe that this is certainly progress in relation to previous final accounts, but we also believe that it is huge funds, that they were committed and other resolutions to show in a similar way and that their supplementary reports at least resemble what the Ministry of Finance did. Certainly when we open the debate in the principle of DSS MPs to mention all the missing parts, but only the item of the agrarian budget -- look at the additional report -- of 3 billion and 900 million, it is only said that in a legitimate way it has been spent. Is this really a budget debate? I have to tell you, I'm sure we of the DSS wouldn't even be asking for supplemental reports now to be approached in a regular manner during the year by the restoring ministries. On several occasions, DSS MPs sought reports from the ministries; unfortunately, never in this home -- neither here at sessions nor on committees -- we received real reports from the ministries; not disputed, there were exceptions, but we did not get financial business to what we were looking for. This is an opportunity to restore in some way the dignity of this home, that ministers have an obligation and that regularly, especially when it comes to the final account, deliver their reports. Depending on the quality of their explanations, the DSS will vote for or against.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24689	Speaking to the minister of economic relations with abroad, Mr. Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24690	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of the demands of individual MPs, and regarding part of the report on the implementation of the 2001 budget on donations, which was split yesterday on the Committee on Finance and will be the subject of debate, I will take this opportunity to introduce you to some details concerning donations for 2001. Generally, you will see that the report in general, when it comes to donation issues, entered the Republic of Serbia in 2001 for what we have about 530m euros, as shown in the budget implementation, means 3,600,000 dinars, which is the budget flow of donations, and the rest that was in what was non- budgetary character, which was either in terms of goods or in terms of everything that had entered both energy and the social sector, all that was out of budget flow. I have to say that the current concerning defining the priorities of the Serbian government, which we went towards donors, was such a nature that in 2001 we had one species, I would say, an exception to the country's behaviour as ours, means a post-conflict country that is the recipient of donations, which is that we didn't just accept the World Bank's suggestion and other international financial organisations, which is what our country needs to get in the way of donations. We went out with a document called the reform plan of the Republic of Serbia and at the Brussels conference in 2001, June, we came out with defined priorities what it is that the Republic of Serbia needs, what it is from donations that we want to enter and how to finance our priorities. In 2001, after 2000, the small period since October 2000, when most of the donations were humanitarian, means for energy needs, for health care, for social needs, so in 2001, we had three priorities. The first was the revitalisation of infrastructure, the second was in some ways an attempt to restore the economy in some segments and the third was the social sector. When you look at the figures you have in the report (in particular, you will have them tomorrow morning, but had them by the Finance Committee), of which 500 and almost 30m euros, one quarter went to the social sector, one quarter in energy, the rest went to health, agriculture, private sector development and in preparation for 2002, where the priority was, dominantly, to revitalisation of the economy, to the development of the private sector, to the restructuring of banks and to some segments. The question for the report was what happened in 2001, i.e. The request by the MPs was not a report on the donations in the package but in the 2001 report. I'll give you just one piece of information, and that's exactly what's in the report, although I don't know if you've all got it, but it's been given to the Finance Committee. As for the money, since I hear that many are interested in where the money is, the budget inspection found that there were 3,366,391,000 dinars in the budget channels revenue. In the report, you will find how donations are implemented and monitored, how donation funds are transferred through the Government of Serbia's budget, and you will find - collection and exchange of donation information, which is an additional report, as well as a review of donations. I must say that for what has been recorded today through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it means all the donations that have entered through it, there has been no objection. There was only one, and I'm going to explain to him, regarding the use of donations, whether it was by donors by end-users. For your information, donations are a contract. So donations are a contract that implies that there are contracting parties, defining who is the recipient of the donation, who is the donor, how the funds are used, how the funds are transferred and the control of the realisation of the donation. When it comes to a dinar donation, about how the funds are transferred, they are simply paid into account -- donation income. Then the passing account is transferred directly to the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. When it comes to donations to foreign currency, then foreign exchange funds are transferred, and that was in 2001, and in 2002 it was transferred to the National Bank, meaning it goes through the conversion of foreign funds into dinar assets, then the funds go back to the contribution-based proceeds when they go to the Republic of Serbia's budget. In line with this in the budget you have a division of 14 positions 77. It's a position in the Ministry of Economic Relations Department with the abroad, where funds are being expressed... I'm sorry, you asked for an update on the report, which is exactly what I'm talking about, which you don't have in your basic report. So, the budget split of 14 positions 77 and on this basis 1,715,259.000 was paid through an account -- donation income, which was directly transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition, the Republic of Serbia has received direct budgetary assistance, and on this basis, on the basis of contracts ratified by MPs in the Federal Assembly, the Republic of Serbia received 1.501.390 dinars. On the basis of grants for the removal of floods in the Republic of Serbia, 124,742,000 and 25 million were paid at the expense of the Serbian budget, when you add all of this up, you will get the amount that the budget inspection has established, and that is the amount of 3.366,391,922,2 dinars. Each grant contract provides for a way of monitoring, the control of the use of donation funds and the donor itself is being supervised and has a unit to monitor the implementation of the grant, which is otherwise envisaged. Up until now, approximately 800 projects have been defined in the Ministry's records either by contracts via the Government of the Republic of Serbia or have been identified through local administrations or other bodies that were recipients of the donation. The only objection that has gone to date on donations has come from the judiciary union, and the issue is that so far, $5.9m has come through the government for the needs of the judiciary. There are all identified details of this $5.9m donation. In any case, this report, which was given to the Finance Committee and which will be divided tomorrow morning, shows that the budget inspection defined the amount of donations in 2001 which this report fully confirms.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-12-10-0.u24691	I thank Mr. Pitic. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Miodrag Jaćimović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Stanko Kovacevic, VlatkoSekulović, Natasa Milojevic, Istvan Išpanovic, Bijaci Anton, Predrag Stojanović, Vasilija Pavićevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Jelena Milenkovic; the delay was announced by Mirko Rosic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the National Movement of the Resistance, representatives of the National Democratic Institute, representatives of the University Professors' Association and representatives of the USAID. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001 I would like to remind you, the motioner or representative had a word, the MP who issued the opinion also had a word. The representatives of the committees have given up the debate. I ask, does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up for a word on this agenda point? Yeah. ) Please, the word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
