ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21686	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, obviously Parliament is in crisis. The crisis came from the DOS internal conflict, and it is seen in the fact that parliament cannot provide the necessary majority. If it provides, then it provides hard, in a magical way in several cases. What we Serbian radicals are proposing, in order for this crisis to calm down and prevent, is that you still have to show at least so much tolerance, not because of us opposition MPs, but because of the public of Serbia, that this assembly is doing what is called the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Gentlemen, you've started working the wrong way, the wrong way you think you're going to get past this crisis, by applying force, by issuing a warrant to the police, to the security service, to get the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party out of this room out of this room, you think you'll be able to do it while you're at it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21687	A suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21688	You won't be able to, gentlemen. Another way you can apply, and it will not surprise us, is by introducing a new rule, because there are no precedents with you anymore, which is that the Assembly can vote, that the work of the assembly can be participated by phone, by phone, by computer, by plane, by bus, by hospital, because the number of MPs present depends on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21689	Is that your suggestion, Mr. Mircic?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21690	Just slow down, don't be nervous, your hysteria led to the Parliament crisis yesterday, you're not aware. You are new, fresh, when it comes to the internship in this congregation. This hysteria of yours also causes unrest in Serbia. What you're thinking...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21691	Mr. Mircic, for the violation of Article 99, and on the basis of Article 103, I give my first warning. Please put in a proposal, for which you have received your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21692	I absolutely can't hear you, and I never understood you, as most of Serbia can't hear you and understand you. Gentlemen, you can overcome this crisis by throwing out all MPs, especially Serbian Radical Party MPs, of course, as you know, by force, by issuing orders to use that force by police. We don't blame those people who do that job. We know what they think, we know how they feel while your government is on Serbia's political scene. You can solve this crisis, gentlemen, by blackmailing some MPs with your recognizable methods... (President: Time. You haven't put in a proposal, and it's been a long time)... You can put pressure on it. The proposal, gentlemen, for the Serbian Radicals, is to move forward, to continue, more precisely, by disseminating MPs from this assembly, by force, as you can and know; as you propagate the democratic means that are being viewed in the face of being physically expelled from this assembly; or by force, by bringing in MPs from other MPs who are within the DOS. This force has its own lifetime. Don't think that force won't come back on your head. Secondly, you have a perfectly normal solution, which is to return to this point of the agenda debate, to argue in principle. Don't rush. [[Sagar.]] What are you nervous about?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21693	Mr. Mircic, I'm warning you twice that you've exceeded your time. It's the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21694	You claim to have 131 MPs. That's a stable majority of you. You can only take away my word the moment you, with your tried methods, interrupt the Assembly, introduce security, introduce the police to throw me out. There's nothing else you can do, Mrs. Micic. And you, as a lady, have shown these manners from the very beginning, that this is your best lady's manners, by throwing the police out...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21695	Do you, Mr. Mircic, violate the Rules of Procedure by not talking about the proposal and by going over the clock in two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21696	The Rules of Procedure can no longer be violated in this sitting, because you violated it at this point in the agenda - you did not give a debate in principle. You threw out the MPs who answered for the word. Yesterday, the deputy head of the parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic was expelled, physically and brutally, from this assembly, so you used it to make propaganda, to deceive Serbia. How can you most in violation of this Rules of Procedure warn someone?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21697	Mr. Mircic, six minutes. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21698	You can't warn. Okay, this speech of mine will take as long as I want, not you taking away my word. [[GROANING]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21699	Mr. Mircic, I give you a second warning... (Milorad Mircic: The fact that you make the warning, only you do your job, you are a real professional... )......................................................................................................... for overdrive time of three minutes. You used twice as much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21700	Just don't kid yourself, and you'll get away with it at one point when the store inside DOS shows interest in sitting there, and you'll be kicked out of this assembly. And you, gentlemen, sitting down, though in a small number, honest and honest people, smart people, inside DOS, take care; you know what this violence is about. Save it, while there's still a moment, at least a little of that dignity, because now it's a coalition partner you want to eliminate. The real question is, who's next?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21701	Mr. Mircic, after three warnings, for time's over, because you're not sticking to the subject, I'm taking your word and asking you to get off the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21702	When you come to us, the opposition MPs, this cruelly, I can think that those of you inside the DOS will think of you. You can warn me as much as you want. I told you...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21703	I'm shutting down the microphone to the speaker, who won't get off the phone. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivkovic and Bora Stanimirovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For six, against 119, two abstentions, 49 of the 176 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. People's MPs Djura Lazic and Toma Busetic jointly proposed an amendment to Article 17 and a new member of the 17a was added after article 17. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic. I ask the People's MP Milorad Mircic to step away from the pay phone to get word from MP Tom Busetic. Please allow the work of the parliament and the MP who received the word. Mr Mircicu Mr. Bushettic, would you accept the right to use the word over this microphone? [[Zagor, MP Mircic remains behind the pay phone]] No, I don't. [[Sagar.]] Since MP Milorad Mircic refuses to step away from the pay phone and has already been taken from him, I suggest that the National Assembly bring a measure of the distance of MP Milorad Mircic. For 121 against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has reached a decision on the extent of the distance of MP Milorad Mircic. I'm asking MP Milorad Mircic to leave the room so we can continue our work. (Employee Mircic remains behind the pay phone. If not, I'm setting a break and calling security to carry out my duty. I apologize to MP Toma Bushetić for being denied the right to use the word, so we will correct it in the follow-up session. I'm asking all the MPs to step out of the O.R. so the security department can do its job. (Employer Mircic leaves the pay phone.) ) Since MP Mircic has moved away from the pay phone, we continue our work. I'm asking the MP to leave the O.R. [[Sagar.]] So, you continue the injury, you stay in the O.R. All right, 10 minute break. I ask the MPs to step out of the O.R. [[After break - 12.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the remainder of the session, please set up a quorum and insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has the People's MP Toma Bushetic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law on ministries. I apologize again for the previous incident.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21705	Dear fellow MPs, the SPS has proposed that the Ministry of Education and Sports be separated so that we have a special ministry of education and a special ministry of youth and sport. The reasons are multiple. First, perhaps in this way, the Ministry of Education would begin to deal with real and serious problems, not just by ending history and constantly raising tuition. On the other hand, I point out the need for the Ministry of Sports and Youth to exist, given our sports results. If this ministry did not exist in any other country, Serbia would have had to have the Ministry of Sports from the Pittite towards our athletes. Only our basketball players, water polo players, volleyball players and handball players were shoulder to shoulder with the largest countries in the world, with America, Russia. So that's enough reason for us to have the Department of Sports and Youth. But it is obvious that the parliamentary majority has no understanding of our very constructive proposals, as it would most likely not have an understanding of our many proposals regarding this law. For example, our proposal was that the Ministry of Economy should be abolished, because there is simply no economy in this country. Our proposal was for the Department of Commerce to be singled out as a special ministry, because in one day alone, it managed to liquidate the department stores and leave 5,000 people out of work. When it comes to the Ministry of Labour and Employment, our proposal was to change the name, to be the Ministry of Labour and Fire, because since the arrival of DOS to power, as of 5 October, about 300,000 people have been out of work, as well as in the work of the Ministry of Energy and Mining. This mining section should be shut down, because our most significant mines, such as Bor and Majdanpek, are on the air, and Trepca is occupied. They were all good suggestions, but given that the debate in the principle of this very important law lasted half a minute, we couldn't point to you, and maybe you would accept something.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21706	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21707	We have come to another reform law, as far as I can see, here in the Serbian Parliament yesterday and today trying to adopt and predict the return of certain ministries which, for also reform reasons, were abolished a few months or a year ago. Well, when you finally realized that this previous ministry law was good and that it was good that there was a special ministry of local self-government and especially the Ministry of Ecology, then it would be wise to finally realize that the law was good in that part that predicted that there was a ministry of youth and sport, especially today that we don't even have a federal level at the sports ministry. Today, when there is the possibility of this new law being envisaged and introduced by the Ministry of Sports, it is not predicted, but rather retained by the Ministry of Education and Sports. We suggest that the Youth and Sports Ministry return. Besides, if there's a certain drug action going on, if it's said to be questioned, I guess that's what the Youth and Sports Ministry should do, and take care of the youth, unless it's some marketing or economic move to get a certain profit out of it. If not, then it is good to form a youth ministry and sport that will deal with the real issues of NGOs, especially when one of the following laws, which is the law on the formation of NGOs, leads to a completely different position for these NGOs. I think that taking care of these NGOs must take over, as well as leading all of this, the ministry as a special institution, the youth ministry, especially when it comes to sports. It is unacceptable that in Serbia, which is one of the republics, the state, which has so many sports workers and experts, unfortunately, as we can see, in the last year these sports results have not been as they were before. But, well, to be good and to be better, it is necessary, and for these reasons, to introduce the Ministry of Sports. I think we agree on that. The third reason why the sports ministry should be introduced is also the fact that almost no sports facility has been done in the last year and a half with the help of the Serbian state. In order to ensure this within the ministry, an institution within the government of the Republic of Serbia should be provided, meaning within the ministry dealing with the construction of sports facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21708	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 31, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. ( Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the post: Business proposal. You do not have the right to a proposal under the Rules of Procedure. There's only a possibility that you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 97. You have no right to, find me a provision by which you have the right to propose. You didn't get the word. ( Dragoljub Stamenkovic stands behind the pay phone and speaks, but the microphone is off. ) Mr. Stamenkovic, you have not received your word and I ask you to act in accordance with Article 99 who says, "No one should approach the speaker until the president of the National Assembly allows it." ( Dragoljub Stamenkovic continues to stand behind the pay phone and speak. ) Mr. Stamenkovic, you have not received your word, I give you a reminder on the basis of Article 103. The emissary still talks at the pay phone. Mr. Stamenkovic, please step away from the pay phone. You didn't get the word. The emissary still talks at the pay phone. Mr. Stamenkovic, I give you a second warning. The emissary still talks at the pay phone. ) Mr. Stamenkovic, after two warnings, I give you the measure of confiscation of words, according to Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please step away from the pay phone. The emissary still talks at the pay phone. ) Mr. Stamenkovic, once again, I ask you to step away from the pay phone, as you have been taken away from the word you have not received. I am putting the motion to the National Assembly to make a decision on the distance measure for MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. For 116, against two, the abstentions were not voted 31, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision on the distance measure for MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word came from the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Markovic. After that, you have the right to speak as an amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of this assembly since the beginning, that is, since the office of the President of the Assembly, has regularly violated the Rules of Procedure. I'm advertising a breach of Article 81. It says that the beginning of the work of the Assembly is at 10.00 p.m. The President of the Assembly has never been on time, and on average it is (I am putting forward a proposal that I am going to make, and I am advertising Article 81) She's been late for an hour and a half. He says the assembly session costs 10,000 marks. The assembly session costs, gentlemen, 30,000 marks, because there are 150 and some MPs coming from the interior, their travel expenses log is on average around 3,500 dinars. Furthermore, the president of the Assembly is the first among the equal, and yesterday she took the word to an authorised representative of the Soviet Union who has the authority to speak about all the points of the agenda, because at the beginning of this session we gave such authority. The president of the assembly wants to be a cadiya in this assembly. I suggest that this session lasts 15 minutes, because we have 15 points left. According to you, every item of the agenda, or yesterday, lasts one minute. I've never seen that in any country in Europe. And you are constantly calling for the work of parliaments in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[elevator in the O.R.]] We just wanted to discuss culturally yesterday and say how we feel about the proposed ministerial posts. We wanted to tell the future Minister for Local Self-Government that there are major problems in Serbia's cities, that citizens are losing their jobs, that Serbs from Cosmeta in large numbers remain without their apartments, or where they were tenants, that peasants, ladies and gentlemen, do not know what is the protection price of agricultural products, so that pensioners in certain cities have lost the help of the Red Cross. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all we wanted to point to. We wanted to tell the future health minister (and we wouldn't vote, because the essence wouldn't change those three ministers) to get the boxes out of hospitals and schools, because our educators, doctors, ladies and gentlemen. We want to shift the public's attention and that Serbian citizens are dealing with these problems. The SS is asking for the president's shift, because this is inadmissible. Furthermore, the president of the assembly, ladies and gentlemen, says this assembly has mirrored Serbia. This is not Serbia's mirror. Serbia is much nicer and better, but remember... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that the last election wasn't the right election. It was a referendum, ladies and gentlemen. Serbian citizens will go to the elections, and I say, as polls that are available to us, and not those that you have been ordered, say that you will not have more than 35% of the votes when all of the DOS vote. I ask you to respect this proposal, because the MPs of the Soviet Union just wanted to criticise and improve this law. You didn't accept that. There's no reason not to waste time, but to cost Serbia 15,000 marks a day and everything else, and there's no...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21710	I'm warning you, time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21711	If you'll let me use the three minutes I have.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21712	You need to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21713	I can't talk about the amendment, because yesterday you took the word from the president of the Soviet Union, Mrs. Micic. Please tell Serbia why you did it, because the authority was handed over in time. I repeat again, we are looking for your shift, because you no longer need to be the mirror of Serbia, because Serbia has a much nicer mirror than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21714	Okay. I have to answer to the MP, I am obliged to give an answer to the MP. First, for your information, the president of the National Assembly is every day in the 9-hour assembly, so 10 years ago I was here in the O.R. yesterday and today. There were no Soviet MPs who otherwise boasted that they were coming here at ten o'clock. They also don't come in full numbers when they brag about doing it. Another thing - authority for Mr. Pelevic. I'll be tolerated, so I'll take it. Otherwise, your authority is not handed over to the office and there is no, say, the press, as the authority of the SPS parliamentary group. I could have said that this authority doesn't exist. Secondly, it's not my responsibility. The secretary of the National Assembly is responsible for such a mistake, and he will carry out the necessary conventions. And for the purpose of tolerance, although it's not right, and there's no proof that you handed this over, it's known that this is done, here, as a parliamentary group of SPS, hand over the office, and then I apologize to Mr Pelevic and today he will get, if he wants to speak, he can get the word, even though it's lacking this authority. So I'm still going to meet you. The word is Mr. Zoran Angelkovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure; but you are an authorised representative, only the president of the parliamentary group can speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21715	I hope the president's been able to figure out what the point is. Article 105. The Rules of Procedure make it clear: "The MP who has been given the measure of distance from the session is required to immediately step away from the hall in which the session is held." Ma'am, why are you getting upset (he's talking to someone in the O.R.), we want to work successfully, to respect the Rules of Procedure. You have no reason to be upset, we will slowly, all over the business. In the following position, he said, "If the MP refuses to step away from the National Assembly session, the National Assembly president will order the service authorized to maintain order in the building of the National Assembly to remove the MP from the session (and continue) and set a break until the measure of distance is carried out." Considering that the president... I know that, my friend, I didn't make a mistake (he spoke to the MP in the O.R.), and it didn't bother you when you were president of a 65-year-old youth, and then I knew that you didn't mind, but at that time I could allow that right, because the statute said that he could do more than 27-year-olds (when I was president of the youth); but there's no such right here as the President of the Assembly, but he has the obligation to provide conditions for the work of the Assembly and to remove Mr. Stamenkovic from the O.R. I'm asking the President of the Assembly to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21716	Unfortunately, irresponsible MPs also violate many other duties, such as, say, the duty of Article 217. - to participate in the work of the National Assembly, even in providing quorum. As for MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, he is not electronically recorded and therefore, as if he is not in the O.R., I don't know why it bothers you. I ask the Security Service to, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 5, carry out a measure of distance from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic and set a break. [[(Zagor in the O.R.) The MPs, from the place, why the break?]] Do any of the other authorised participants report on the amendment to article 17 submitted by MP Dragan Markovic? He has a word, as an authorised representative, MP Borislav Pelevic. You have no right to a replica, on what grounds? I didn't insult you at all, I just said that authority was lacking and that I could not accept it, but here I accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21717	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have the right to reply, because you as Parliament Speaker, Mrs Micic, have mentioned me several times, and yesterday, you have banned me from speaking against the Rules of Procedure, even though there is written authority that we gave neatly before the beginning of this session. Let me remind you, for a few points of this session, this session, I was telling you and it didn't bother you at the time. When I was supposed to talk about the ministries, you denied me the right to do so. Article 38. The Rules of Procedure say, "In the course of the meeting of the National Assembly, a parliamentary group may authorise one of its members to represent a parliamentary group according to a specific agenda, which the president of the parliamentary group has writtenly informed the President of the National Assembly, no later than the opening of the debate on the agenda." We've done that and we've been doing it since this National Assembly meeting. So I don't know why, but you denied me my parliamentary right to speak yesterday. I want to apologize to this high house for not being adequately dressed for this session, but I didn't expect to speak today, because I didn't expect you to apologize. I can accept your apology for two reasons: first, because you are a lady, and as a gentleman, I have to accept your apology; and secondly, that you are my Užika, because my title is from Užica; but I cannot accept, as a folk MP, your apology, because you have violated the Rules of Procedure as President and denied me the right to speak. So I ask you, if you have political responsibilities, to resign and spare us your violation of the Rules of Procedure in the future. We no longer see the purpose of participation in the work of this assembly, since political terror is at work of the President of the Assembly and the ruling coalition, and we are leaving the National Assembly from now on until further notice. Thank you. (Goran Cvetanovic asks for a word about the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21718	You have no right, he had a replica, you have no right. Mr. Cvetanovic, I'm giving you a second warning about a violation of Article 99. Please step away from the pay phone, since you haven't received your word. Since you refuse to step away from the pay phone, the next step is taking words and giving you that measure. I'm asking you again to step away from the pay phone and allow us to continue our work. Since MP Goran Cvetanovic refused to step away from the pay phone and had no right to approach it, he violated Article 99 because he did not receive a word, I propose to the National Assembly that we bring a measure of the distance of MP Goran Cvetanovic. I'm putting a motion to vote. For 119 against three, the abstentions were not voted 23, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision to apply the distance measure for MP Goran Cvetanovic. I ask you to respect the decision of the National Assembly, to honor Parliament's decision and to leave the pay phone, to step away from the gym. Since MP Goran Cvetanovic refuses to implement a decision taken by the National Assembly, I would ask the Security Service to carry out its duty, in accordance with Article 105 of Section 5. I'm setting a break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, president of the DOS parliamentary group Cedomir Jovanovic, please. (Before Cedomir Jovanovic, MP Dragan Colic comes out for the speaker. Ladies and gentlemen of the Nardoon MPs, I have a proposal. This is the application of Article 105(2), which says: "The measure of distance from the session can be given to the MP and without measures previously spoken, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, in the building of the National Assembly". Based on Article 105(2), I propose that MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, who today participated in physical attacks and the destruction of the moral integrity of the National Assembly, be given a measure of distance. These are the following MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Slobodan Janjic, Branislav Blažić, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, Stevan Kesejić, Zlatan Jovanovic.... (The MPs stood up and there was a crowd in the O.R. Natasa Jovanovic beats the president of the National Assembly. ..... Ljubomir Kragovic and everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21720	I ask all MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia not to respond to provocations and to verbal and physical violence do not respond to violence. Members of the Democratic Party, please, without violence in the Assembly. Leave the security detail to do the job. I am setting a five-minute break and expect the DOS MPs in the Serbian Parliament for five minutes. Once again, I ask Serbian Radical Party MPs to forget the party directives, serve Serbia and sit in their seats. I ask the MPs present in the hall to declare the motion of National Assembly President Natasa Micic to read the MPs whose names she had read, who participated in the destruction of the Assembly... Will Serbian Radical Party MPs take their seats? I ask all MPs to take their seats in the MPs' benches. I ask the MPs to continue the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly read the basis, from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on which he proposed a move away from the National Assembly session, without prior warnings, to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, who participated in physical conflicts with security representatives. I ask the Members to make their statement on this proposal. For 119, no one, with one abstention, voted 11 out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the President of the National Assembly. I'm setting a break until 15.00 hours, when we'll continue the session of the National Assembly, according to the scheduled agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21721	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Since I have not been able to read the full list of Serbian Radical Party MPs for whom I have requested the application of Article 105 on the extent of distance given to Members of Parliament and without measures previously spoken, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, I would suggest that I read the other MPs that I failed in the morning part of the session. These are MPs: Miroljub Veljkovic, Bozidar Vujic, Srboljub Zivanovic, Lazar Marjanski, Vitomir Plužarevic, Dragan Colić, Bozidar Vucurović and Stevo Dragisic. I propose that a distance measure be applied to these MPs and that the National Assembly make a decision about it. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 121, no one with abstentions voted six out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision on the distance measure for those MPs. I now put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Dragan Markovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. There was no vote against 122 abstentions, not nine, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. People's MPs Rajko Baralic and Branko Ruzic have jointly proposed an amendment to article 18 and a new article 18a is added after article 18a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I regret that we are working in an atmosphere that doesn't fit the parliament of a serious state in which we all want to live. Oh, my God, Rajko. Zoran, I'm not a god. If that's how you're experiencing my appearance, then it's not good for you. I filed with Mr Ruzic on behalf of the SPS the amendment to Article 18, with a desire to correct a single solution that was within the law, but since Serbian citizens had no opportunity to hear the opening statement regarding the law that is under discussion here today, since they had not heard the experts of the committees, what I would possibly be saying today about the amendment could be groundless. Why so let them try to answer those who bear responsibility for something like this to the citizens of Serbia. No law, regardless of the circumstances in which it is brought, can be passed in such a way that people's MPs, the public of Serbia and journalists are deprived of the elemental right to be exposed to a law that needs to be passed. It is a wasteful promise that it will be done eventually, that the minister will do it himself. It's a post-festum, it's not good, and let's not do that. Let's not do that, no matter whose intentions are here. Ruzic and I have proposed to separate the ministry that defines culture and information in these amendments and additions to the law in one ministry; so culture and information are given to one ministry each. We believe that this solution would be better, we believe that culture as such deserves to have a special ministry, and information especially, because in a country where there are 204 electronic media, hundreds or thousands of lists, in which it is accredited who knows how many journalists from other countries' newsrooms, information deserves to have a special ministry. That is the essence of our amendment's proposal. I regret the circumstances in which we discuss this law and amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21723	Anyone else want a word? Please, MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21724	Let me first ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure in the future. That we respected the Rules of Procedure, as I warned you, in Rule 105. .... Okay, well, I know you're nervous, so we'd like this to be over in five minutes, not to work at all. If you're not nervous, listen nice, nice. You have no reason to be upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21725	We're not nervous, we're just asking to respect the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you have been given the floor to explain the amendment submitted by a group of MPs from your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21726	Then I'll do the Rules of Procedure first, then I'll do the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21727	You've received a word on the amendment and please explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21728	I'll get back to you after the Rules of Procedure. So, when it comes to this amendment, I am clear and glad that the Serbian government accepted and realized that she was wrong when she abolished the Ministry of Information. Now, in one addition, he joins the Ministry of Culture. I don't think it's possible to join him at the Ministry of Culture. When it comes to information, it is necessary to pass a law on information and the framework of it to provide for the responsibility of the Ministry of Information. On the one hand, it's easy to break one law. When no second is brought, there is a full legal vacuum and legal chaos in the information. On the other hand, we have a law at this meeting that needs to address the issue of broadcasting. But it also does not show the place of the Ministry of Information, that is, the work of the ministry provided for in the Ministry of Culture. That is why we think it is extremely important, in conditions in which we want to build free information, that the Bureau of Communications of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is abolished, and that the Ministry of Information is formed, which would be involved in informing all citizens, not just by informing the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That would be transparent and democratic. That's why I think we should support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21729	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 14, against 118, two abstentions, 9 did not vote, of the 143-nation MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21730	You didn't give me the package, what to do. I'm not having a hard time walking. All right, people, you kicked these guys out of the DSS, out of radicals, out of Pelevic, that is. Serbian Unity party, we're the only ones left. If you want us to leave, we'll leave. Say, it's no problem. If you want to work, let me. So, in Article 105, it clearly states that if the President of the Assembly determines the disfellowshipping measure, removes it from the session, then determines a break to the execution of the distance measure. Because this measure was not implemented, because the speaker of the assembly did not set a break to carry out the distance measure, there was an excess in this assembly. It's a broken Rules of Procedure. You can say it wasn't broken - please. I ask that the vote be voted on by the president's injury, as its failure to implement the Rules of Procedure has led to chaos in the republic's parliament and conflict between the DOS and the Serbian Radical Party. It's not good for either of them, but the president of the assembly is responsible for that, so I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21731	I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Zoran Angelkovic's proposal that he is a injured member of 105. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 23, against 117, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that it is not a injured member of 105, which was advertised by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The 20th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Srda Popovic, Sinisa Mitrovic, Vojislav Jankovic, Gordana Comic, Ivan Andrić and Milan Stanimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and it is in view of the correction that it does not have an impact on the opinion given on the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Srda Popovic, representative of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21732	This is one of the amendments submitted by a group of MPs, as agreed by the Committee on the Environment. I am extremely sorry that today, due to the conduct of some MPs, a practical topic has been thrown into another plan. I must reiterate that I am extremely pleased that the Committee on the Environment has also agreed on what is really important and what is today being decided in this assembly, which is the formation of a strong and competent ministry for the protection of natural resources and the environment. In that sense, I call on you to support the amendment with your vote and to do so what we, as MPs, have committed at the beginning of the work of this assembly - to establish a clear policy in this important area.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21733	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 98, against 21, abstentioned 12, 15 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The National MPs Golub Rajic and Hranislav Peric submitted the 20th amendment together. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted to the amendment by MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21734	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of the National Assembly is the draft law on ministries, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, likely with the aim of gaining time and some cosmetic changes, at least for a short time, extend its mandate, after very poor results for a year and a half. The latest amendments to the Ministry Law were in January 2001 and the fact is that certain problems and certain shortcomings have been identified. He's trying to change this law. In his exposé, the prime minister said "the government has been given the mandate to make changes, not to rule; it will split by law and within the framework of the law; it will be uncomplicated power; citizens will have personal and property security; quality management in businesses will be established; crime and abuse will cease. "The fact is that none of this has been done, even the situation is even worse. The government has passed many regulations and has offered only two or three system laws to parliament. Everything else is cosmetics, despite the promise to build instruments of government control. In the proposed law, Article 20, the most important thing is to open a new ministry and this ministry of the protection of natural resources and the environment. It's a shame that the Ministry, as the Ministry of Ecology, was abolished. With my colleague, Perić, I have proposed an amendment to Article 20, that it be changed and that it is said that the Ministry of the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment performs the tasks of the state administration and all that follows, in whole, with the addition at the end -- "a policy of forestry, control of seed and fruit material in forestry, as well as other tasks of a certain law. "This was explained by the proposed change, in addition to the jobs that have so far been covered by the work of this ministry, its competence has been extended by the introduction of the jobs involved in forestry. The government did not accept this amendment, explaining that fishing and hunting are functionally linked and conditioned by the development of agriculture, as they complement each other on the available farm and forest land and, for these reasons, a single and coordinated development of those areas within one ministry is necessary. It is disputed that there are still intertwines with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Aren't forests and waters natural wealth and environmental factors? Isn't it better that the forests and the waters belonged to this new ministry or at least to the protection business? Agriculture, as a branch of economy, is complex for itself anyway, and we have a lot of problems to make the results better, so I think it's better if this was transferred to at least one more ministry. We have today that the minister of agriculture, water and forestry has unilaterally transferred Serbia's waters to the management of the Public Enterprise "Serbiasum". It's like a butcher working after a scrap. Wasn't it better that it was otherwise regulated? The fact is that all amendments were submitted to Article 20, and the opinion of the Committee on Environmental Protection was unanimous, regardless of political membership, that this ministry was extended to jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21735	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, the word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21736	I have to say, we usually support the establishment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. This is necessary and is also on that return line to reform law, which existed in this republican parliament by mid-January 2001. That's not controversial. In addition, the Ministry of Environment Protection was necessary to form because for a year and a half, the environment was polluted that there is a need for a governmental portfolio to deal with a little cleaning up the environment. But I am convinced and I think it was necessary for this bill to propose and introduce the UJDI Ministry and the Civil Alliance and to lead these ministries as Tanic, in order to address the problem of all these communications that they have about these various engineers.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21737	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 118, the abstentions were not voted by eight, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 20a be added after article 20. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 120, the abstentions were not voted six out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21738	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, I'm trying to help one of the oldest scientific institutions in our country - the Astronomeric Observatory. If you read my explanation you saw that it was founded together with Meteorological in 1887; then it was separated in 1924: special meteorology, and especially astronomy. At the head of this institution were our well-known scientists: first, its founder Milan Nedeljković; then, since 1924, our famous scientist, academician, astronomer Vojislav Miskovic; then our great academic scientist Milutin Milanković; and with Astronomy worked with our famous mathematician, academician Radivoje Kašanin, etc. I don't order those younger, also famous astronomers who worked in that facility or ran it. In a magical way, a few years ago, an astronomical observatory was expelled from the budget and transferred to funding the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Since the ministry doesn't have enough money and it only finances projects, then for this year not all the people in that facility are covered, and they are doing jobs that can't be taken as projects, but are doing a whole series of jobs that are the state's service. I'll give you just a few. It is, for example, the service of time, and the Astronomeric Observatory always gives details of the exact time; it is related to the Observatory in Paris, so that it can do it nicely, and that is important for our different state services that must have exact time. The second is the service to the sun, watching the sun's activities and their impact on life on the earth, on medicine and on various other services. Then, the service of geodetic coordinates; and the service of so-called Occultations (heaven bodies). These are government services that cannot be financed as projects. This has to be financed from the budget. I therefore propose to amend Article 23 to the extent that, as a special organisation, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute and the Republic Geodetic Institute will be listed under point 8) of the Astronomical Observatory in Belgrade. That way it might be possible to fix her funding for this year, because it wouldn't be good for the Astronomeric Observatory to start dying in our power. The government has responded not to accept my amendment, so it says -- a new law on scientific and research work will be passed, which will also be detailedd and regulated by the specific position of the Astronomical Observatory. I'm not happy with that answer. First of all, I don't believe that this law will be passed by the end of this year, and if such a law were to be passed in some reasonable time and repaired by the position of the Astronomical Observatory, we would be able to remove it easily from Article 23 of this Law. Let me tell you right now that if Minister Djelic, and they will go to visit him these days, if they can get to him, doesn't allocate a little money from the budget reserves, it won't do any good; as I said earlier, the Astronomeric Observatory will start dying. This morning, I got a phone call saying that in 2002, they only received salaries for January and February, and they received poor wages. I also have the data, but I didn't bring it so I could show it to you. Now Mr. Domazet promised to give them at the end of the month or in June pay for March.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21739	Mr. Simonovic, I'm warning you of a time-out. Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. 61, against 69, with ten abstentions, did not vote eight out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 30a be added after article 30a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21740	Of course, that amendment doesn't make any sense anymore, but I just came to say, Mrs. Micic, so you have to have a little bit more sense when you need a speaker to break up and when you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21741	Mr. Simonovic, I'm trying, I let you go, one minute you've overstepped, but it's my duty to warn you when you're out of time. If I don't, then I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 36, against 96, with five abstentions, 12 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srda Popovic, Sinisa Mitrovic, Vojislav Jankovic, Gordana Comic, Ivan Andrić and Milan Stanimirovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 108, against nine, with five abstentions, it did not vote 28 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21742	Given that this is the last amendment to this law (or last, however you will), as well as the way this law was adopted in principle and how it is held, and starting with the fact that Dragoljub Stamenkovic, who was excluded from the Assembly or from the work of the Assembly, voted on a single amendment, we will not take part in the vote on this law. We'll wait in the lobby for you to finish it nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21743	Is there anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For it was not against 122 abstentions, it did not vote 7, out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 32nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srda Popovic, Sinisa Mitrovic, Vojislav Jankovic, Gordana Comic, Ivan Andrić and Milan Stanimirović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 112, against two abstentions, nine were not voted by 6, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Dragan Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For it was not, against 122, abstentioned two, it was not five, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 35th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srda Popovic, Sinisa Mitrovic, Vojislav Jankovic, Gordana Comic, Ivan Andrić and Milan Stanimirović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 113, against three abstentions, nine were not voted four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For it was against 125, one abstention, not three, of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, I ask if the proposal's representative wants to speak, Justice Minister Vladan Batic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21744	Dear Madam President, the esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected observers, the last reorganisation of ministries and administration bodies in their composition and special organisations was carried out by amendments to the current Ministry Act in January 2001. In the past time period, the need for the existing organisation and the distribution of competences within the work of individual ministries has been seen. First of all, it refers to two new ministries -- it's the Ministry of Protection of Natural Resources and the environment, which is simply in the spirit of the time in which we live. On the other hand, the Law on Local Self-Government has been passed and there is a desire to affirm local self-government, to decentralise, regionalise Serbia and affirm modern public administration reform. It was necessary to form a ministry of state administration and local self-government because it is not possible to carry out the job properly within the framework of a massive justice ministry and local self-government. Other solutions mean more or less improvements, meaning redistribution of jurisdiction, meaning some logical set of circumstances, and I don't think there's anything that matters enough to cause such controversy. Otherwise, the ministry law has been amended 11 times, amended and completed, and this is the new Ministry Act, these are not amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. During the controversy here in parliament, and in the public, it was heard that the existing government or future government is one of the most massive and expensive in Europe. Let's see what language the fact is: the government of Mirko Marjanovic, who has been living in these areas for a long time, had a total of 35 members, namely the president, the vice president, six ministers without portfolios and 23 ministers. The government of the Republic of Serbia when elected on January 25th 2001, had a total of 24 members -- presidents, seven vice-presidents and 16 ministers, since Mr Mihajlovic was both vice-president and interior minister. The current situation is: the president, four vice-presidents and 15 ministers. Under the draft ministry law, if there are no new vice presidents, the government would have 24 members again. So much for the bulk of the government. As for costs, the government spent 10% more than the planned amount in 2000. In 2001, the current republican government, of the planned 75 million and 400,000 dinars, spent 66,688,004 dinars or 88,45% of planned expenditures. In 2002, therefore, in this year, funds amounting to 112.243,000 dinars were planned. For the first quarter, only 14 million were spent, almost twice as much as planned. Please listen to this information. For the sake of comparison, the government of the SRJ, the federal government, which, by the way, has not said anything particularly much in 2000 and which has ten members, has planned funding of 194,831,000 dinars, which is almost twice as much as planned for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Another parallel. For the SRJ cabinet, 43,550,000 dinars were planned for this year or almost a million and a half marks. If we take into account what the government of the Republic of Serbia spent in the first quarter, if it continues this way, it will be the same cost of the budget for the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the cabinets of the SRJ. So much for the story of the government's costs and bulkiness. So I think this is one law that is necessary at this point. I suggest the People's Parliament adopt it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21745	I thank Minister Vladan Batic. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the draft law on ministers in general to vote. For 127, no one, with abstentions, all voted, out of a total of 127 members of the people present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on ministries in general. You said you left the session. [[Applause]] You don't keep your word? Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21746	I was very specific, and I said we'd wait for the vote in this hallway, but we didn't leave the session. It's a different thing. Therefore, I ask that it be interpreted as I have said. I ask that the quorum be established, because it is evident from the voting documents - Stanko Kovacevic, for example, Leila Ruzdic, I don't know if he is there and so... (From the O.R.: there it is. Leila's here, I'm sorry, it's my pleasure. Stanko Kovacevic, I didn't see him here. He's out of the O.R. So now come out, but I'm asking you to establish a quorum. (Minister Batic, from the post: The quorum for continuing work is determined. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-22-0.u21747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this exhibition is actually re-degrading the National Assembly and questioning the decisions of the National Assembly. I don't know where you're being listed, since the procedure is that you have to contact me and that I am looking, and as far as the MPs you listed are concerned, People's MP Leila Ruzdic is present. We don't have to react to every objection you make, especially because you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 95(2), I hereby order a recess at the session of the National Assembly, and you will be informed of the extension in good time and in writing. Bon appétit.
