ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22252	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed new members of the government, today is a united discussion of these two points of the agenda and I would like to make a few notes, I would say due to the overallity of the proposed measures and their effects. I'd like to start with the revenue side, say a few sentences about the amendment of the Financial transaction Tax Act. This tax isn't the best tax we have, and that's what we've said from the very beginning. He was introduced into several stages because it is an easier tax to collect, it is expressed at the time when salaries are paid, when loans are given, or when someone who has a paid ability wants to pay someone for his services or products. As we have announced, at the moment when circumstances arise that this tax is fully abolished, we will do so, and that moment has not come. However, thanks to slightly better financial discipline, we are today able to propose to you the abolition of this tax and the parallel abolition of the PDO commission in a number of transactions that are very important in our economy, while at the same time significantly reducing all other types of transactions in our economy. The total cost or lack of income we are planning is between four and five billion dinars. At the core, not only are we reducing taxes to our citizens and our businesses, but we are introducing, in the form of tax collection and PDO fees, the economic principle, where the real cost of payment is expressed. This means that where everything before was linear and a tax of 0.45% was collected and a commission of 0.15% of all transactions, one dinar or 150 million dinars, we now propose a scale that will enable what is one of our government's specifics, which is that more and more transactions are being conducted through accounts in a legal and secure way for all those in that traffic. Indeed, this linear principle has not been applied anywhere in the world, and we, with colleagues from the PDO, have reached the proposed scale that will allow those large transactions to be less burdened, because in the previous system, a load of 0.6% on some large transactions led to large amounts of money, largely giving rise to some people trying to do so through cash and to avoid traffic over an account. That is why in this bill we propose six different rates (it is not difficult to implement because everything goes electronically) that will reduce in total what was 0.6 to 0.55 for orders up to 50,000 dinars, up to 0.30% for the largest, above five million dinars. That's what expresses the reality of payment costs and at the same time will contribute, I'm sure as little large transactions happen over cash. As you can see, for all transactions it's cheaper -- and for those we least go from 0.6 to 0.55, but of course the strongest incentive is for those big ones, which we want to return to legal flows this way. In this I tax will be from 0.41% for at least transactions to 0.22% for the biggest ones. It's just part of the story. What may be very important at the same time, it is that for what is common payment in our economy, we have foreseen in this proposal, and we suggest that you vote it, to leave out this tax on financial transactions, while at the same time the National Bank of Yugoslavia will abolish the commission of the PDO, so that the sum of a third will be zero to the next very important elements of our life. The first thing that will immediately have an effect on our citizens, entrepreneurs and businesses, is that if this proposal is adopted, the financial transaction tax on all types of credit, loans and repayments will be abolished. Banks have often said that this tax and this tax to the PDO is one of the major elements of interest and we expect (and we had the right arrangements with the banks) that after adoption, if you adopt this law, interest or capital cost is lower for our businesses by about 1-1.5% at the monthly level. So it's a very significant effect for reducing the cost of capital. Today, when you're an entrepreneur and you take credit, you don't just pay the interest that's been written and the bankers in their code predict, you pay the bank's taxes, you pay what was the tax on financial transactions and the PDO's commission. So that's where we first reduce that there was no interest, because inflation, as we see, is in the first five months less than 10% a year; we still plan 20%, and we expect it to actually be between 15% and 20%. We expect the interest to fall further, so that the suma-sumarum that today is 4-5% of the monthly cost of capital (money) in our country falls by about 2% in a very short time, so that no one in our country pays interest on a monthly basis, which is already from 2–2.5% a month, and for those best committees significantly less. Of course, there's a policy of the Commercial Bank that we don't get into. We expect at the same time, with the return of savings to banks, the entry of new banks and financial institutions into our market, to boost competition between banks, because it is really difficult to understand why banks still count between 1% and 2% of the monthly costs of their taxes on capital prices today. We will very closely follow this, since the European authorities found it appropriate to punish, and very significantly, a few weeks ago, the Austrian bank with several hundred million euros because they conducted one cartel, and we have some of these banks today in our territory; I would not like to give names, since there is no reason to give either a positive, or a negative advertisement. I can say that the arrangement at the Banks' Association looks like a cartel and we're going to, and that's a message for banks, deal with them, see if there are any valid economic reasons to keep interest and their costs at such high levels. We can't do less as a state and as a government to provide our entrepreneurs, citizens and businesses with the cheapest access to money. This is not the only vision; it is the most important one in terms of credit; but in this proposal, we have significant incentives and for the implementation of the privatisation process, because the transfer of shares and government bonds in the primary and secondary market on the stock market is free of taxes on financial transactions and PDO fees will be released. All the funds achieved in the privatisation process are also released. So there's an additional incentive, not just for privatisation, but for the development of our market and capital. It comes at a good time, because today we will sign an important deal with the Athens Stock Exchange, after a year of exhausting negotiations with them. A lot of things have to be fixed on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, but this is a strong incentive for development and business in the institution. Also, funds for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will not pay these taxes, as neither will bank-bank transactions and the National Bank of Yugoslavia. We'll see through the amendments, and we'll expand that further, so that what's at the source of the money doesn't get taxed, so that the cost doesn't break after the economy. As blood passes through the organism, it's up to us here, and that's what we're trying to do, to release, within the means available, what's at the source of the money. So, even before giving credit, the transactions that happen between the National Bank of Yugoslavia and banks and between business banks will not pay taxes on financial transactions if you adopt this proposal. When money comes to businesses, entrepreneurs, citizens, to be as cheap as possible, and there it expects the government to see if the Anti-Monopolitan Commission has cartelisation. In addition, much lower inflation and our goal through all this is to make money as cheap as possible. The last thing, which is very important, means on the one hand we have the cheapest loans, the non-payment of this tax on transactions between banks and the National Bank of Yugoslavia, so when the loan comes, it's as cheap as possible. Another thing is the incentive to privatise and implement a social programme; a third thing, which I would like to mention, as something we have suggested to exempt from the tax on financial transactions, is what concerns the cash-free payment in our economy. Today, the situation is in no way satisfactory. The so-called The mass of M1 cash in our country participates with 40.7%. For example, in the surrounding countries, this participation is quite heterogeneous and different situations across countries, somewhere between 20% and 30%. In developed countries of the West, with the exception of Germany, where the cash has never been exhausted until the end, if you take countries like Italy, France and others, the cash is very small, only a few percent in that amount of money. There's obviously a grey economy with 41% of us, there's people who don't pay taxes, there's those who transfer the payload for what's necessary for the state to someone else. It is up to us to, at the same time and through the strengthening of criminal measures, narrow the participation of cash in our economy and therefore these incentive measures today and in two ways. All payouts that go into account in a cash-free manner will be exempt from taxes on financial transactions and PDO fees. So, for all companies that have action to get their employees and employees to do business and get salaries over the bill, they stay there and don't pay off later in cash, it's going to be released and it's going to be a significant asset. Another thing about paying checks, and I can say that today on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance, we accepted an amendment that has come in several ways to free and traffic in payment cards. Payment cards are not only one way to curb the grey economy, but it is also the most efficient form of payment and payment traffic in any economy. We're coughing in that regard. In Slovenia, there are 2.2 million cards per 2 million people, in Croatia with 4 million inhabitants there are about a million-and-a-half. There are about 15-20 thousand cards in our country. So we're going from zero to zero, and to the extent possible, we're going from cash to payment cards, not going through that interspecies check, it's pretty widespread with us, and it's taking part in the store for a little bit from about 30%, but it's quite expensive in business. We can, since it's a cash-free payment, give the maximum incentive; today is the first step we're going to propose, accepting this amendment, to free the entire turnover through payment cards of the financial transaction tax. So much for this first bill. I just want to say that in no way would it be possible for the government, with the support of all administrations, to have had significant success in curbing smuggling, primarily oil, as well as cigarettes and slightly better financial discipline by our citizens and entrepreneurs. She's not yet at an envious level, but thanks to that, we are today able to propose this measure that costs between 4 and 5 billion dinars. Believe me, as much as this grey economy narrows down, if more people pay taxes, we will use it at every step to reduce the burden on our economy and citizens. Some say: reduce taxes and then the base will increase. Of course, there will be, but you'll all just realize that we can't drop the income we have today, because every 15 days we need to provide 5-6 billion dinars for pension payments and for those minimum costs for our country's functioning. Here's a very nice example, as soon as space is found we'll go out to meet our economy and our citizens and cut our taxes as much as possible. So much for this first law. As far as the budget rebalance itself is concerned, you voted in December for the 2002 draft budget. You are facing today the proposal for a rebalancing of this budget and it is before you for three key reasons; of course, all are foreseen by the Budgetary System Act that you voted in February of this year. The first reason and the key cause is the vote on your part in February for the Omnibus Law on the crossing of a number of powers to the AP Vojvodina level. In this proposal, it's shown and I'm going to say a few words about it. The second is the vote of the Ministry Act, which introduced some new ministries and changed the structure of the state administration in some ways, which is now being reviewed and seen in this budget rebalancing. The third reason, now that we are in the middle of this financial year, we have seen about the developments, you have a report for the first four months of implementation of this budget; I think this is the first time in history that one government has delivered such precise elements to the Assembly during the implementation of the budget, and you have this at the end of this report, you have an execution according to all the key items of the 2002 budget. We found space in one place, which we used for some other very important things. Very briefly, as far as the first occasion is concerned, it means a rebalance that goes into reality and through money what you've voted on. I can say we've had exhaustive conversations with our AP colleagues and I want to thank them. We came to the first step envisaged by this law today, which provides one budget of 8.7 billion dinars for the AP Vojvodina. To this, the AP Vojvodina from privatisation funds and some other funds will complement this up to about 9.08 billion dinars of budgets for the whole year. So, it's not extra since June, so far, it's for all of 2002. In this we have the funds provided by two billion 136 million dinars, of which the original incomes are 1.2 billion, and the trusted jobs are about a billion dinars. In addition, we have a pay transfer in education, about 5.9 billion dinars. That's how we get to the AP Vojvodina budget. As regards the original transactions, to ensure this, the significant involvement of Vojvodina in those two fiscal forms of income tax and income tax was increased in order to secure those assets. I think that, with what has been done for the level of local self-government, we have yet another very significant step to decentralize our country. My colleagues in Vojvodina have quite professionally prepared it. So they have systems and vaults that I think are ready for this, as soon as you vote, to be implemented into reality. The second item concerns the formation of new ministries. This is not about some big numbers, but it was important to provide the figures, so the new ministries of state administration and local self-government, as well as for environmental science, can work. It is now foreseen in this law. I'd just like to say a few sentences on the third occasion; if you look at this budget, it hasn't increased or decreased in expenditure. So we predict at the macroeconomic level and at the fiscal level the same situation as at the end of last year. However, in this reallocation, of course, because Vojvodina has some of the original revenues, the revenues of the Republic of Serbia are so reduced. At the same time, we noticed during the year, and we wanted to use that to express in this rebalancing, some changes. You remember, at the moment of this budget's vote, I indicated, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that to increase the budget towards gross-national income, one of the reasons was - foreign interest payments. I don't want to say that we have good news here, there's no good news or bad news, but there are only the results of the negotiations. I can say that because of many effective negotiations with our bilateral creditors and since the IMF voted on a three-year programme on May 13th, we signed a number of bilateral contracts to cut our debt by 51% this year. You saw the other day, Vice President Labus signed such a bilateral agreement with Austria in Vienna. By the way, the amounts we have to pay for the Paris Club this year have been reduced, according to what we could estimate at the moment when the budget was made. In addition, negotiations with the London Club continue, but because there are several commercial banks that remain very hard in their position. According to this rebalancing, we do not predict that the funds will be located in this financial year for the payment of those debts. They're not missing. We can expect them next year. So next year we can expect interest payments to the London Club, and hopefully we'll close the deal by then. In this financial year, it won't be. In addition, to avoid getting into technical details, some of the payments scheduled at the end of the year, due to bureaucracy and on the other side of our creditors, were left a few months later. So in the 2003 budget, we'll find some payments we don't have this year. But it opens up a space of about 8 billion dinars this year, which we wanted to use to finance something that is very important for our country's reform. I just want to specify the key items, and thanks to this new space, which, in the same volume, provide the following promises. The first thing, as far as pensioners are concerned; we know that pensions are actually increased by about 40%, April last April and this year. We expect a 6.4% increase in a few weeks. They will continue to grow after a new indexation. I just want to take this opportunity and say that what used to be placed in public that pensions fell, absolutely not true. In fact, last year's pensions had the biggest real increase in the last 12 years. And that's not only because they're bigger in dinars or euros, but because they've grown significantly above the cost of living. Are pensions on an envious new one now? Of course not. A good number of pensioners still very hard to live on, and we're aware of that. That's why we're going to have extra givings to them this year, to ease how much more difficult it is for those who are. Pensions continued to grow and they will continue to grow; in order to secure these funds, it was decided by the Government and proposed to adopt an increase in grant, i.e. The transfer from the Republika Srpska budget to a 1.4 billion dinar PIO fund, and what with 44.6 earlier, you see the effort, the prime minister said in his speech yesterday. So today we have a major national effort to secure pensions. The PIO fund requires 127 billion dinars this year and nearly half of that money comes from the budget. Our pensioners can see what a national effort it is to pay their pensions in this amount and in time. As we can see, while the pension payment when we came to power was the beginning of news on television and on the front page of the newspaper, today it is almost understood that it is one of the great security that our older citizens can have. We want to keep going, and that's why we suggest that this donation increase by 1.4 billion dinars. In addition, since we want to strengthen services in health care, and as you have seen, with negotiations with the health union, it is decided to raise salaries for a number of people in health care. I speak quite simply. It has been observed that in the last 5-6 years the old wage range of 1:4 in health care and in these public institutions, time and through some social givings, such as a warm meal, regression and such things, has been translated into an editorial, with a range between salaries of 1:2.4. A few weeks ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed, with the consent of all relevant trade unions, to change the odds for business bearers. They're not just doctors, they're people who need to carry jobs and there's no motive for these people to stay in the country, to fight to get to those responsible places where they fit. Also, our society, and that's what's summed up here, those 500 million additional dinars that are proposed to provide, is enough for their wages. This is what was proposed in order to provide a slightly larger payment fund, and in return for the supply of drugs and what else we need to go towards our citizens does not suffer at all. It is proposed to increase the volume of funds for the Republic Health Institute. I can say, although it's not all perfect in that and in the domain of procurement, and it'll be even better when you pass the law on public procurement, there are no more adverse phenomena; and you've seen in the area of oncology what's been going on over the past years. Now our citizens can be sure that the funds going towards that health fund are going for the right reasons, not some secret accounts abroad. As for other elements, public institutions and social institutions, I would just like to point out that it is envisaged, due to the difficult situation of our citizens in Kosovo, that the single social fund is increased by 400 million dinars. So we are increasing funds for our citizens and citizens in Kosovo and Metohija by 400 million dinars. There will be additional funds to help this year and this difficult situation. Finally, as far as taking care of workers themselves in the transition process is concerned, the transition fund, which implements our government's social policy, is projected to increase by a billion dinars. That would end that first increase package. As you can see, the first purpose is for pensions, social aid, which allows all the layers of our society to go through this transition without paying that price; that's what the rebalancing is about. In addition, for this key segment of health, as one of the three priorities that we have set out for this year, we set aside 500 million dinars, so that job carriers are encouraged. Besides, we have another part about the economy. So social giving, public institutions, and the next priority is economics. It has been observed, due to the great difficulties in the energy domain, it will be necessary to boost subsidies; they are already three billion and 990 million in the budget you adopted last year, and we are now increasing them by the EPS with 750 million dinars. I'm just saying, it's not for E.P.S. employees' salaries, it's for strengthening the funds for the repairs. Also, as far as the railways are concerned, 700 million more dinars are foreseen for their repairs. These are funds that will not even enter these companies, but according to the already stalking system we had last year, they will be paid to their suppliers, i.e. our economy for repromation and wages. I'd say it's a momentum for our economy that's positive. What's foreseen by the budget, plus the rebalancing, plus those loans that you voted for in guarantees or counter-guarantees, all of this will help make these two systems work and have a chain effect on the rest of the economy. Another thing, what's innovation? Innovation came from thinking and many of the conversations we had with our businessmen and mostly with entrepreneurs. We form one appraisal, a billion-dollar and 200 million dinars, which will allow the launch of several new institutions in our domain, which should contribute to those in need of money and credit to receive that money. As for abolishing the financial transaction tax and all that we're going to do to reduce that interest and the price of capital, that's just one part of the story. There's another part of the story and there's a lot of these stories, and we'd like to have more of them, and they're entrepreneurs who have an idea; they have a market, they often even have first machines, but they can't get to the loan, because the bank is looking for a mortgage, they don't have a house or a house there, but they're not registered, they can't legally pawn it or put it as a mortgage. These people, although some of them have the best ideas, can't get credit, because banks now want to do business and how strictly, respecting all the provisions necessary for financial discipline. This is why we propose the establishment of a guarantee fund for the lending of entrepreneurs and farmers. So, for entrepreneurs, whether they're in the store, whether they're in the industry, whether they're in agriculture, which will make it easier to get credit. It's not a fund that's supposed to lend loans, it's a fund that needs to guarantee part of the main bank that lends loans. It's up to the banks to determine which ones they'd like to go with and partially secure themselves with that fund. To begin with, we predict an appraisal of some 600 million dinars for these purposes. We've been talking to different donors for months. I can tell you that many countries and how willing they are to help, to encourage this, to increase that fund, so that many of our entrepreneurs come to that money. In addition, we have one institution that we want to form out of this appraisal, which is an institution that will help fund the construction of local infrastructure. I know it'll interest a lot of people in this room. Again, there is no forecast for a bank to finance local infrastructure, but a company that will be a focal place is projected; not Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Nis, because these cities have professional services, have the fiscal capacity to negotiate directly with some financial institutions. No, this is meant for less local self-government. We all see that water, recycling, transport, heat, is all of the key interests of our citizens, but there is no in the system of institutions that will be able to help local self-governments form projects; at the same time to help them negotiate much larger loans from the European Bank for Development, the European Investment Bank, the Hungarian Development Bank, the German Development Bank and other commercial banks, so there is one portfolio where local self-government will be shareholders. So that's not just a question for the government. It's a joint project of local self-government of the Vojvodina, which is not the government, that is, the state, to form this company that will provide funds. On those loans, if necessary, they will be given sovereign guarantees. We predicted several hundred million dinars for that. The last thing I want to mention is that there are also funds to empower Serbia to enter the capital of the National Savings Bank, which was created beyond our knowledge. Since it is called the National, which is a Serbian, which exists, de facto, some kind of guarantee to our citizens, as state institutions, the state will provide at least a third of the capital for itself to better control what is happening in that institution, which has the predestination to be, after all, privatised. It's about key interests in the economy. Finally, several elements that are important for modernising our country. We have, now these are slightly less sums, strengthening funds for the Institute of Information and the Internet, which had a very small budget. Some 270 million dinars were proposed here. It's, for starters, the digitization of the state administration, the possibility for our citizens to be in touch with the government via the computer. We're far from the levels that provide other countries in the environment, but that's one start. As far as culture is concerned, it has already been known, for years there has been no production of some of our domestic films. There's a small fund, but an important fund for about six to seven films. It's not a donation, it's going to be a loan to restart that production. It exists in all major countries that hold to their local, domestic cinematography. Surely we as a country, if there are a few strong points, that's one and we're providing one momentum to get it started. That's what I'd like to mention. To sum up, as far as the first revenue side is concerned, there's a very nice example when there's some stronger financial discipline and order in public finances, the possibility of reducing the tax by about four to five billion dinars. Here we propose a reduction for everyone, but most of all for those who have avoided the most, so that everything goes back to legal flows. We primarily aim at the very source of money, to make it as cheap as possible for our citizens. We have this strong incentive to privatise and develop market capital. We also have an incentive for everything that's a social program. On the other hand, on the divisive side of the budget rebalancing, if you vote for this rebalancing proposal, you will allow the implementation of an omnibus law that transfers a number of powers to the AP Vojvodina level, you will allow the smooth functioning of new ministries. Because we were, I would say, conservative, and perhaps not so bad negotiators, in this year we are able to pay a little less ino-kat, which allows us to, in the same size, without increasing taxis, the only thing we do is reduce our obligations and use these funds for social purposes, including our citizens in Kosovo, as well as on the one hand for health care, on the other hand for economics. We have very important institutions here that we want to launch this year to guarantee credit for our entrepreneurs and farmers and for the momentum through the EPS ŽTP repairs. Finally, several important things about informing our country and stimulating the production of our domestic cinematography. So much for that, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, I urge you to vote on these two proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22253	I thank the Minister of Finance and Economy. I ask whether the words of the experts of the committees in charge; the Committee on Finance, Mr Bogdanovic (no); the Legislative Committee, Mr Pajtic (no). I ask, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group for this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22254	Ms. Micic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, allow me to make clear on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on several essential facts contained in the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. I could speak on this subject at least as much as Mr Djelic said, but unfortunately, we have brought together a discussion on two points of the agenda. I don't think it might have been right to leave the same time, so five hours of total debate about such an important two laws. Well, anyway, first of all, let me say that we don't dispute the reasons for bringing budget rebalances and making appropriate changes and additions. But when you look at the structure of income and expenditure, i.e. expenditure in the budget, then you really open up some of the issues of the budget structure itself, the collection of income and the spending of these funds in the budget. It is obvious that the rebalancing, above all, is due to the fact that we delayed some obligations towards the international community regarding loans and interest for some time and another year, most likely 2003, 2004, or 2005. It's something that might make us happy at this point, but we're also worried, because in any case, we're going to get to that time when we're going to have to settle those obligations, pay interest or return the principals. The 8 billion are here, in this proposal, redeployed in a way that the Socialists don't have a lot of objections, but the objective question is -- how did we actually come to have certain items in the budget to increase! And in your own explanation of this proposal, you said that the lack of revenue in the budget was influenced by the fact that we have a stagnation of economic movements, which inflation was not expected at 20%, which was no means, or income based on privatisation, which was no contribution based on paid earnings for pension and disability insurance, etc. But here, ladies and gentlemen, we must imagine ourselves well. Is it normal now to regret that inflation was not 20% and to say - therefore reduced revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I guess the logic is that both costs and expenditures from the budget were lower than they were planned to be! In all of this there is a good fact, which is that the funds based on privatisation have not found their place in revenue for the first four months of this year. Why is that good? I respect Mr. Vlahovic's knowledge, but we disagree with his concept of privatisation. If there were any of these funds based on privatisation, we would actually spend them; which will say that we would turn the company's basic assets into some general spending on wages, pensions, office materials, official travel, telephones, etc. This is what is problematic in the way in which the privatisation and spending of the funds would be achieved by it. Of course there will be funds based on privatisation, but it is very problematic - for which purposes we spend these funds! Contributions to pension and disability insurance are not collected at the level planned, but pensions are spent at 40% planned for 2002, although it would be normal for the first four months for these purposes to be spent only one third. When you look further at the cost structure in the Republic of Serbia's budget, you see several devastating facts. If it's normal for one third of the total funds to be spent in four months, then it's really not normal to, say, spend only 18% of the planned 7 billion 300 million on agriculture from the Agricultural Fund or the budget, (call it what you want) on only 18% or on the planned 7 billion million spent on just one billion and 300 million; not to spend on the needs of the MUP one-third but only 14% of the funds. And this seriously calls into question the overall structure and income and expenditure in the budget. What we will actually achieve by doing, in my opinion, one artificial balance in the budget - there is a balanced state of income and expenditure, but we have one disturbed structure that will be very difficult to correct by the end of the year! Furthermore, what is the biggest problem of this budget, and I guess we all in this room understand, and that's that this budget is also deficited in the first four months. The deficit is 11.5 billion. How did we cover that deficit? First of all, credits. Credits are 7.5 billion in that deficit. Of which: World Bank loan 4 billion and 800 million or around 80m euros; 2 billion and 600 million is NBJ's credit, and the rest are donations. What if we don't have a donation?- I'm sorry. What if we don't have a future loan?- I'm sorry. What if the NBJ can't continue to finance the Republic of Serbia's budget with loans?- I'm sorry. These are all some issues that are being opened, because it's theoretically wrong to set a budget so you know in advance that you have a deficit that you don't have to cover from safe sources. The only solution that is normal here, economically justified, and thus Mr Djelic must indeed agree, is the launch of business activities and the creation of conditions to contribute to the full budget to a greater extent through sales tax. You say yourself: we have a stagnation of economic movements - no contribution. Why is there no contribution? Because there's no pay. Why is there no pay? Because our businesses aren't working! And, it's not a controversial social component of this budget, but it is controversial -- whether these social resources should, to some extent, be used to launch the lagging or fallen economic capacity, then go into privatisation, and then, through the profits of these workers in these companies, make bigger taxes, bigger contributions, etc. So sometimes we put things upside down. If anyone stands for social welfare, that's what the Socialists stand for. But the sociale must Yes, yes, that's funny to you, gentlemen, but I warn you that if we think about the budget this way, we will come up with another budget rebalance in September to realize that, in the first six or nine months, we have not achieved planned revenue or expenditure in the budget. [[elevator, disdain]] So that's the problem. Since my time is limited to 10 minutes, I would like to say a few sentences regarding Mr Djelic's exposure and the proposal for a law on financial transactions. Well, it's not disputed to cut the financial transaction, but look at the fact that the average tax rate remains 0.3%. Look at the structure, see that on orders 50 to 100,000 is paid 0.5%. So at that rate of 0.55% or 0.5%, a PDO commission is included. As we encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, which essentially have the highest payments, as much as 95%, in this relationship 50 to 100,000. Have we actually reduced that obligation to them? It is uncertain what the NBJ will do in the future, or the PDO. What are we going to do from January 1, 2003, when the payments go to business banks? Who will be able to commit business banks, such as what you have now achieved with NBJ, to keep (not to reduce) the current commission on payment, i.e. on services made by users. It's good, of course, that you've released loans that go towards the economy, loans that go from business to banks, etc. But, Mr. Djelic, have you considered reducing, or eradicating, a 20% tax on interest rates that are calculated by business banks to businesses? You have a situation like this -- the high-level NBJ rate for this year is 11% a year or about 0.9% a month. When inflation is added to that by, say, 1%, that's 1.9; when a 20% tax is charged on services, that's 0.38%, and that's one additional burden our economy has in using credits from business banks and any credits. We people had a situation that the Development Fund in 2001 did not spend 850 million dinars because many businesses, which received these funds, could not provide the appropriate guarantees in the business banks as requested by the Development Fund. That's where we have to imagine: what were we actually doing? So I welcome this initiative to form a guarantee fund, which will allow that and what resources we have to use. We're a poor country, and it's not controversial, but it's sad to have almost a billion dinars left in the Development Fund untapped, and to have a situation in the economy that we have! (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Thank you very much, this is what I end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22255	There is a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic, the authorised representative of the SPS for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22256	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice-President, gentlemen of the government, as Mr. Todorovic focused most of his presentation on the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law, in the rest of the time for this parliamentary group, I will say something about amendments and additions to the Financial transaction Tax Act. I would like to say immediately that this third extraordinary session of the National Assembly, i.e. so far the work and agenda, marked clean cosmetic changes regarding a number of members of the Government, then the budget, and also the Financial transaction Tax Act. I think we all agree that these amendments and the budgets are, above all, in line with what we said before the budget was passed -- that first it is necessary to pass the law on the budgetary system, because this is also the consequence of the adoption of the law on the budgetary system; then, the Law on the Ministry; even the previous, first rebalancing, has gone a little faster than the amendment of the Ministry Act, since one ministry has been introduced that we have not yet adopted here, at the session of the Assembly. Regarding the acceptance of the omnibus law, which we passed somewhere in February, which the SPS did not vote for, to remind you of: the financial transaction tax is a sublimation of the solidarity contribution to the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, which was introduced somewhere in October 1998, as well as contributions to the removal of the consequences of NATO aggression on our country, which was introduced somewhere, I think, in July 1999. I think that this reminder is very instructive and desirable, since the forgotten reasons for deliberately introducing these sources of income, for relieving damage and removing the consequences of a natural and a war accident. Also, Article 2(2) of this Financial transaction tax law required that the financial transaction tax be paid and the income of the NBJ-PDO, or 50% of the tariff, was allocated. The traffic service fee was prescribed by 0.3%, of which 50% belonged to the Republic of Serbia's budget, to social programmes and to the payment of the missing part of social contributions. That's why my argument will also be directed to this distribution, because it's the easiest thing to notice and calculate that this half of the payment service tariff has been eliminated by this law. I would also like to remind Mr Djelic that somewhere in December, six months ago, when proposing a budget for the current year, he suggested a reduction in this tax and tariff of the payment service, it seems to me at that time that 30%, in order to lower the price of capital in the capital market, i.e. a reduction in interest rates, and for that reason I think we agreed and that reason we do not dispute. I think what has passed over the past six months has led this measure, which is well imagined at the moment, to characterise what is said on many levels, that there are still some slowness in public finance reforms. As the 2002 budget was proposed, the government promised this reduction and with a decrease of up to one-third, which seemed to have resulted in revenues in the republican budget of 8.3 billion, although at that point we knew, by estimates, that the revenues would be around 12-12.5 billion. The effect of this reduction by one-third, so for a whole year, was about 4.3 billion dinars. The intention was really good, concrete, but the adoption of this law at this point has much more damage to taxpayers than to the users themselves. Here are a few examples that I'm going to show this - of the changes and additions to the financial transaction tax, not a reduction in the rate, but only the other part of 50%, which was the tariff of the payment service directed into the republican budget. The official rate in the law was 0.3%. Item 1 of Article 2. The law is clear, says the tax rate on financial transactions is 0.3%, and Article 2(2) states that 50% of payment service tariffs enter the financial transaction tax. Because the rate is the rate, and the tariff is the tariff. The introduction of this regression rate from 0.22 to 0.41%), depending on the height, resulted in an average rate of 0.29%. All discharge can be measured mainly in this part through the reduction of the PDO tariff. Secondly, more illustrating and striking, at the beginning of the year the budget's planned revenue for this year was 8 billion and 249 million dinars, and this rebalance increased to 12 billion and 550 million dinars; by 4 billion and 360 million dinars or 52.2%. Therefore, compared to the planned budget in December, I do not think that this measure has any adverse consequences for the Republic's budget, given that for the previous four months, according to a report delivered by the government, about 52.7% or 4.3 billion dinars were achieved in relation to the plan we adopted in December. I don't think this government is so easily disowning one of the safest budget revenues that has reached, I think, slightly less than 10% of the total planned net incomes of the budget. I'm just worried about one other thing, which we forgot about the purposes and the reasons why these sources were introduced, which is an earthquake in the Colubary County and the resolution of the consequences of NATO aggression. First of all, at the beginning of the year and when we talked at the Committee on Finance sessions, this amount that was then set for the Colubary County, and then I pointed out that it was insufficient, 867 million dinars, we said it would be a reduced rate; compared to the part of the revenue that was intended for these purposes, it was said, and then we proposed amendments, that this part of the funds would be corrected over the year. In the previous four months, however, only 183m dinars were transferred to the Kolubar County Construction Directorate, representing about 20% compared to the annual amount of funds. I do not really agree that in this budget rebalancing, the government introduces Articles 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, and when we, as a parliamentary group, have proposed adding members to the regular letter of the alphabet or alphabet, it is not accepted. I think that at that point, the concern of funds for the Kolubara County and also the resolution of the consequences of NATO aggression became negligible. We Socialists are against the introduction of a regressive tax rate whose height depends on the level of tax base, and therefore on behalf of the parliamentary group, together with counterpart Arsic, I suggested that this rate be returned to the level of a proportional rate of 0.30%, given that, according to the number of orders, 99.7% of the taxpayers pay a rate higher than the average rate, i.e. 0.29 - 0.89%; the highest number of taxpayers - 95%, and this is explained by counterpart Todorovic, and they will have to pay up to 60,000 dinars and they will have to pay a higher rate compared to the average...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22257	Mr. Mutsic, I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22258	Here, I'm done. Thus, by the minimum number of taxpayers, who are almost 50% involved in payment, the liabilities will be reduced by about 7%, while the obligations for the largest number, or 95% of taxpayers, will be increased compared to the average rate of about 22%. I'll talk about it more about the amendment. We really did agree...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22259	Please, it's 12 minutes, Mr. Marty, I've already warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22260	We agree that certain incentives for the capital market and financial transactions should be introduced, because I think this measure is small and insignificant.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22261	National MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke. Do you use it at once for 20 minutes, so I don't interrupt?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22262	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals warned the government of the Republic of Serbia at the end of last year, when it was voted, that the current budget law was not realistic, that tax policy was not thoughtless and that these tax revenues that were planned could not be realised. It turns out that for the first four months of this year, you achieved about 29.7% of planned tax revenues. So you're missing a little more than 3% so you can make that annual dynamic happen. Of course, you have not yet arrived here to collect taxes, real estate taxes, or property taxes, since you hesitated several months with the determination of tax rates, the calculation of the tax base of the total amount paid, so when you saw that you would have an incursion in the realization of many other budget items, then you raised that property tax to the sky; it is now on average 50% higher than it was last year. These are official data that the public revenue administration, through its top officials, has made public. If that is not true, then Minister Djelic should have denied it in public, those officials who came out with such information. One of them was Aleksandar Radovic. He didn't post a photo in an interview he gave for a certain newspaper, but that's why the interview was published on several sides. Here the question arises: why is there a sub-competition in the collection of certain budget items through taxes? Because your unrealistic ambition is to achieve solid economic growth, industrial growth in this year with a rise in tax rates. He can't do both. You can't raise taxes to the sky at the same time, tax burdens for all economic operators, and on the other hand expect real economic growth. You can have economic growth shown through some false statistical budgets, where more prices of individual products, for example electricity, will be calculated as higher production, so last year this and that amount of electricity was produced in cash, and this year it is much more. Yesterday, a new energy minister announced a 50% power collection on TV. You can say at the end of the year that you've produced 50% more electricity because you've charged 50% more, but it's not a realistic demonstration of the state of production, it's a public eye blur based on some unprofessional and unrealistic indicators. If you make your economic growth only by raising prices, then there can be no growth. Growth in gross domestic product, planned for 4% this year, is unrealistic and cannot be realized. The price rise you planned 20% and that growth has already been overcome, although you are trying to represent it through some commissioned research of certain agencies, certain economic institutes much lower than it is in reality. It doesn't pass with the people, because people aren't blind and see how much prices continue to rise every day. Then, the industrial production itself cannot grow 2-3% this year because there is nowhere to achieve it. Give an example of at least a few factories in this country that can pull that industrial growth; they're gone. Each of these factories has a problem with the decline in production, realisation and collection. In the service sector, you planned a 15% growth. And where? In construction; you say especially in the area of construction. Where does that come true? You're not going to tear down objects that were built without permission to declare growth in the field of service activities. There's no such thing as growth anywhere. Okay, you guys who don't understand this, I understand that you're impatient and you have to be, because you have to realize this reduced quorum, but try to at least learn something from this debate. As far as profit growth is concerned, it can be shown here through the growth of budget incomes based on income tax, and that is an item that is constantly growing to you. But the increase in earnings wasn't followed by a rise in living standards. In practice, something quite the opposite of what was planned. Profits are growing in concrete amounts, but living standards are dropping simultaneously, which means that wage growth does not follow price increases, simplified. The only thing you're planning is to achieve a reduction in the number of employees and indeed the layoff of workers is faster and faster in many economic and non-economic activities. It's being placed here, as one of the key questions, why is this kind of a bribe to your extraprofit tax? Why didn't you charge that tax in the amount you announced? Because of the selective charge. You only preyed on political opponents, politically inadequate individuals and companies, charged them, and you looked at those close to the regime through your fingers and you didn't have any powerful firm close to the regime or individuals in the structure of the government who paid even a serious extraprofit tax. That's right. Minister, you need to explain why such a bribe is in the charge of extraprofit tax; aside from the fact that this tax is against the constitution, which is likely to now be declared by this completed Constitutional Court in a few days' time unconstitutional, and then, by chance, you will have to suspend the charge. Did you expect that it would certainly be declared unconstitutional, so that you would not have to pay back the money afterwards? Only some to collect, and then you will say, "They are such and such, so they should not be paid back." For this item on the use of budgets, the use of budgets, or spending, there are very indicative data. It is ideal when all first quarter budget users realize planned consumption. So, when they rate the total amount fixed for that year, they are scheduled for that year. You have great deviations here, and through these deviations, we can see the priorities of the Serbian government, whose government is the mother to whom the stepmother is. Here are the most drastic examples. The ministry of justice and local self-government had a realisation of 57.3%. That's table two on page 50, bottom side. So for first quarter 57.3%. If the ministry continues spending money with this dynamic, it will be at least 170% in a year. They can give any praise to experience in this National Assembly, because as soon as they spend so much it means they do a lot of work, but now it's a key question of what they do. Nenad Bogdanovic: How did you calculate it? ) I said - at least 170%; it can only be a larger amount, because 57% in the first four months has already been spent. Now watch how the judicial authorities from that aspect stand. As far as judicial authorities are concerned, the Supreme Court has 30%, the Senior Business 26.7%, the Prosecutor's Office almost 30%, the D.A. 34.5%, because you need it more and it protects the government's interests in civil litigation, then district courts 27.4%, municipal courts 26.6%, commercial courts 26.9%, district public prosecutors 26%. The minister should explain this disproportion, which is why it appeared, which are the reasons and what will happen in the other two quarters this year, whether this trend will continue, and the Justice Ministry will manage to eliminate more than 170% of its budget item, and whether the judicial authorities will have a greater realization in the months to come. Maybe you wanted to starve them on purpose, so hungry man when he doesn't see bread for a month then he gets a whole loaf to be happy and overjoyed. I don't know what your reasons are, but I know the consequences of such economic policy. It's interesting that you have an intrusion with the Ministry of the Interior, which means you want to reduce the number of employees in the police, although the police are small and minimal. Earlier you said there were 150,000 police officers in Serbia, and now it turns out there are no more than 25,000. So six times less than you said in the election campaign, and that's a little bit. For some reason, the police don't need you, and for some reason the police are bothering someone. We all know who gets in the way of the police. Of course, one number of officers is reduced by the generals being liquidated, and the other number is much quieter, through cancellations, by going to other jobs or staying out of work. You're welcome to come into my word, I absolutely don't mind, it shows you in the right light, not me. Let's see how you treat students. The item foreseen for the student standard was realised only with 20.3%. Why? You forgot those poor students who froze for years in the winter, because you promised them better student standards, better conditions of study, etc. Now all of a sudden they don't need a dormitory, they don't need food in the student cafeterias, they don't need anything. They only have 20% of the realisation. Why are they downgraded by more than one third in these four months? How do you treat scientific activity? Science, too, in your system of government, is not an act of general social importance, does not represent something for which the state should spend its money. You have far more important needs, and you have far more ways of spending resources. So for science, according to these indicators, you've singled out almost twice the amount that's planned. The Ministry of Science, Technology and Development has the slightest realization. They're talking about the cost of organ function, that execution is 1.5%, and that's not so important. However, other specialised services are 14.5% and 12.1% from the Serbian budget. Why is that? Why does the Serbian Academy of Science belong to those institutions where there is a major incursion in funding budgets? Why does the Serbian Academy of Science have only 26.9% of the implementation for these four months? Does that mean you don't need the Academy of Science? Does this mean that academic research should be prevented and that you will kill all social sciences in our country by declaring them Nazi, along with reviews of the University of Bologna or other countries of the European Union? If top intellectuals, such as Slavenko Terzic and Rados Ljusic, came under such reviews as what can be expected by those who have not yet affirmed themselves in public and scientific life, what should be expected by those who are just about to start their scientific, or academic careers. Will the state underestimate further science, perhaps end science? Look what you've done in the field of education. Basic education has a 25% realization, eight percent less than it was supposed to be. It took at least 33% for these four months. Medium education 24.8%, student standard 24%, higher university education 24.8%. It doesn't matter where I teach or don't teach right now. It's important in a few months that it's going to be the most competitive in public life if anyone knew a DOS guy at all. If a man had a DOS neighbor, it would be compromising in his social life. Why do you treat elementary, high schools and colleges like this? Because you're trying to destroy many of these colleges, and in parallel with that you've allowed the uncontrollably open private colleges and individual professors from the state colleges to teach in those private colleges. Where's your administrative surveillance here? Where's your educational inspection? How can, for example, a professor of state law at the same time teach at a private school for business law? In what other country in the world can it be? There are ads in the paper to enroll students in those colleges, follow up on the press. Mr. Jovanovic, if you haven't been able to study the alphabet for this schooling of yours so far, it's not my fault, it exists. I'm lying, aren't I? Now, it's run by a married couple, Vodnelic, who are also professors of law school, state school, and who are still in charge of this private college. That's possible with you, you support it, it's no problem for you, and when it's made public from the pay phone, then you say I'm lying. You can say that without any intervention from the chairman, because when you started to throw out all the parliamentary groups from the National Assembly, everything here was allowed. You can come here next time with the sabers, with the guns, and you can put in order... Mr. Seselj, please return to the topic... It's not time. It's theme. Time's up? I did not step aside from the topic, but I am conducting a dialogue with MPs who do not dare to go out for a pay phone and a pay phone, but are getting out of the bench and think that this is an adequate way of political struggle. We'll see where that political struggle will lead you. There were greater heroes than you, so I don't know what happened to them. We'll see what happens to you. What is the situation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management? Look at the drastic data: 52.3% of the total estimated annual money has been spent for the functioning of the ministry's organs, 52% spent in four months! And for current subsidies, 17%. So, on subsidies, only 17%, and for the work of the Ministry's authority, 52%. There's probably some explanation here, and I guess the minister will explain it. Why is that? Someone threw it away -- he was pulling tanks out of the Danube; maybe he was. Is that the jurisdiction of his ministry? This should be taken out by Sreten Lukic who put it in the Danube, that's not what Veselinov was putting in, is that right, Vesenov? You're hunting these birds, deer, wild boars, and so on, but you haven't thrown the coolant into the Danube yet. Have you, haven't you started? (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) I would only like to conclude by finding that this legislative project of budget rebalancing represents a true testimony to your economic policy. It can be seen from this what the fundamental tendencies of your economic policy are, and that will be the case when people experience its consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22263	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The word wants the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22264	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, it is certain that in the concept of the budget of a government, its general policy is being pictured and it is not different in our country either. Of course, the budget is created on an annual basis, because there are some seasonal regularity in it, although the cross-section on a three-month, four-month or half-year level is certainly not met in each of these moments in the same way. There are some countries where the budget is adopted for two years; in some cases it is proposed to adopt the budget for only four years, while the mandate of a government is going on, precisely because of the need for the country's policy to actually be led through budgetary policy and not only to be taken on that path, but to take a continent that is then presented to voters; in the end, the question is whether that policy was actually implemented effectively through the budget. So we could easily see in every country at any moment what was done less and more. However, the opposition in no country would ask the question of what was done more, but would always ask the question of what was done less. The bottom line is that this money is actually spent in a way that is foreseen by the budget and that in the end both sides have to overlap. In the end, all users should be on their own. It is very transparent to criticise what has not been achieved, not to say what has been achieved, and perhaps more than expected. Of course, unfortunately, what has been accomplished more than anticipated by the end of the year will return to its own measure. No one will be able to rebalance the budget without the approval of the National Assembly to exceed that measure. There are a number of fundamental and concrete questions being raised here; I would refer more to these essential questions. It is essentially a matter of budget deficits and what its role is. It is very unusual that someone representing a party at a time whose government was around 15% (which is one of the largest, in fact, in the history of this climate, because there are also some other countries that may have a greater deficit, on some other continents), is now asking the issue of a budget deficit of 2% or 3%, and this deficit that is shown, which is precisely indicated its origin and how it will be covered. What's important about the deficit, and it's going to be important in the coming years, is that this financial philosophy that says the best thing to do is not to have a deficit is not good for a developing country. So last year we were a country with maybe the smallest budget deficit in Europe, and that was good for our image, but it's not good for our economy. So we have to make peace with the fact that in the next 7-8 years, until we enter the final stage of negotiations for the European Union, when, of course, we have to follow some other rules, try to use the budget deficit as a means of development policy. But not the budget deficit for spending financing, but for financing investments, which, in three, four, five years' time, will be able to return the investment. Our negotiations with the IMF on this subject are as difficult as any other country, because it is very difficult to assess what an investment is. Of course, any government can say that the budget deficit finances the investment, but that's why budget revenues are used to pay a little higher wages where they're not earned. Then only practically through the deficit are some investments financed for which there might be sources in the budget if the government's policy were more disciplined. It is therefore difficult to get an international permit that ultimately results in confirmation that you are a good economy for the budget deficit. That's why it's a sensitive question. But that's how you treat him -- about, the best thing to do is if he's gone or here, you have 2%, so now you see that you have a big problem -- I think it's too simple and it doesn't touch the essence of the problem. As far as two basic issues are concerned, what are the limiting factors of this budget and our budget policy at all and why we cannot apply a proposal that sounds reasonable, which is: reduce taxes, let people do business, let people live; by taxing what you earn you will generate income; why can't we just accept it? Because neither pensioners nor others who receive money from the budget, because they are not. Not enough contributions for health insurance, we can't say - wait with pensions until the economy is on its feet and wait with the expenditures that rest on the rights. And if we didn't have that kind of pension insurance expenditure that we're adding from the budget, we could be half the tax if we had. Look at that and you'll see: if we cut taxes and we didn't have a straight-up tax base and no more people would pay taxes right after that, then there wouldn't be money for pensions. What's coke and what's egg? What's the cause, and what's the consequence? I think it's primarily that people who have acquired certain rights in a certain period have to be calmed down. We need to make sure that the economic recovery lasts longer we have to have the pension money. It's a political decision, it's a risky decision, because what we're spending on eventually chokes those who pay for it. I don't see another option until further notice, but to play on this expectation that our economy will recover by other mechanisms, and that these taxes that are paid are such that we can cover our expenses, which we have found and cannot negotiate because they are who they are, that we can cover. I think that, however, absolutely exactly what Minister Djelic said, which is that in the past year, at May-May or April-April level, there has been a real increase in standards in this country, about 40%; there has been a real increase in wages compared to the increase in the cost of living; today it takes about 50% of real income to pay for the same products, basic life supplies and municipal services, as two years ago; this is a real state at the average level. If we say now, we can't trust these statistics, but we're going to trust the people on the street; I don't know what a scientific method is; because there are different people on the street: some are now much better, and some are much worse living. But on average, if we talk about the statistical institutions of Yugoslavia and Serbia, their data published over the past 20 years, we've always taken it as relevant, even now. If there is, tell us which other institution gives relevant information. So it's certainly a small amount of stuff that someone can buy for 300 or 1,000 marks; surely people's dissatisfaction is greater if they see that more things can't buy, because they might potentially be able to buy them. Two years ago, the only choice was whether there was going to be a war or whether I was going to be mobile; if not, I did well. Today's question is, can I go to the sea in Greece, Montenegro, to the spa? If I can't, I'm unhappy; I can't send my child, it's painful and unfortunate; but it's an extension of freedom. The field of possible elections has increased and people have become aware of what they can't, and they'd like to buy. With an increase in living standards, people will be increasingly unhappy in this sense, because people are the most unhappy in countries where they have a lot of money, because even with that much money they can't buy everything they know exists and that they could buy. Our people began to create dissatisfaction with the future, not just with regard to the past. People have turned to the future and are dissatisfied because they cannot buy and afford everything they deserve. But it's a positive relationship to reality and I wouldn't measure real facts based on that dissatisfaction. The real facts are that people today can buy more of the same things with their money than they did two years ago. Of course, it's about average, like it was about average. Many people are below average in our country, and some people are above average, but we still don't have enough good statistics to talk about population groups. We're trying to modernise that service too; so that in a year or two we can say 10% of the population, that and that, lives like that, the next 10% and so on, so that we know which people are below the existential minimum; although the average is decent. In America, in the 1970 ’ s, there were entire parts of America where there was no electricity. There were people living on the level of Africa, millions of people in 1964, and the average in that country was one of the largest in the world. So it's not just us where the average is so that it may not cover all layers of the population, but the average is very important to assess the situation compared to some previous years, because there were also people who were rich and people who were very poor. Finally, the last thing that is very important, strategic, in terms of privatisation; in our public, much contradictoryly discusses what needs to be done first: restructure businesses and privatise them or vice versa - privatize them and restructure them; which first sells - good or bad. This second one is a purely rhetorical question: we can sell companies that someone wants to buy. Our Privatisation Act says anyone can file an initiative for privatisation. So, everyone: management of an existing company, customer, agency, local community. Anyone with any idea that this company might be interesting can initiate a privatisation procedure. But if no one starts that initiative, so you can't offer something no one wants. You can offer, but it's just an illusion. Of course it's going to be privatized by those companies that someone wants to buy. Now management and directors of some companies on the front pages of the newspaper claim - the government is in a hurry to sell us. No, but the government has to wait until they're still emptying these companies, so they're so worthless that they're holding them back, because no one's going to buy them. Of course, if someone expressed interest in privatizing an enterprise, buying it under the conditions defined by law, the procedure is being initiated. Of course, the goal is to get all these companies to their owner as soon as possible, their management and to get into some fresh investments. The question now arises why the Serbian government does not invest the money collected from taxpayers first in restructure existing businesses in order for it to gain little value, and then does not sell it for a period of seven, eight or ten years. There are not many historical experiences that have worked. In countries our size may not even have one. In smaller countries, Slovenia, Lithuania, I don't know if there are any other cases, where small businesses, where people know each other, and then it was possible through the political, social and other contexts of these companies gradually as state-owned restructurings; and perhaps they weren't in such a bad shape. It may work; in our country, it certainly wouldn't have worked. There is no guarantee that the existing management of the money invested would be used to restructure these companies, not to establish its even stronger position, pay back debts, raise wages; and that money would be spent. It means that we can't, however attractive that it sounds, restructure companies, and then privatize them, because we don't have that management, we don't have those few thousand or tens of thousands of people who could do it. Simply, management in most of the weak companies is the same people that put these companies in trouble. It is unlikely that in this large number of cases, these same people could now, along with some financial injection, raise these companies and then say, they're successful companies and now we're selling them as a success. We can do restructurings that are proposed through bankruptcy, that's what we do, but it's limited to just one small number of more important companies, it might be 100 or 200 in all of Serbia, but certainly not six or seven thousand, how many social enterprises there are to privatise. What are the obstacles for companies to start working, we talked about it yesterday, because that's the constant question -- start production, encourage production -- it's showing up again today. People, I'm telling you-- the economy is making money, production is in the function of profit, and it's not profit in the function of production. It's not that you profit from the entire economy, it's that you give someone to produce and lose, but it's that everyone through production creates profit and makes a living out of it, invests and you get a tax. Now when someone says -- come on, encourage production just to be produced, that's Communism, the one from Lenin's time. The modern market economy is - in the economy must be won. In order to win, participants and rules in this business must guarantee that through production, through services, through sales to cover investment costs, capital costs and, ultimately, to remain a profit. What's on the micronivore, at the corporate level, our problems? Why doesn't that work better for us than we should, and what do we expect? The first problem is largely caught debts within the economy and unclear financial status of the company. It's a problem and an existing management. Many companies do not want to beat their debts to one another, many hide their debts, and many managements actually have double accounting. On one side, when they show up at the bank, they prove to be clean businesses, on the other, they have dues, debts. When the money comes into their account, then it turns out they haven't paid their wages in six months and then the workers strike, and that money is divided into a backlog. We have that every day. So one problem is to define the question of reprogramme and resolving these debts so that companies can be market participants. We'll try in July and August to do it. Also, let's say that on September 1st, September 15th or during that period, we'll make it clear that the financial situation of each of our most important companies is that it knows what to do with its remaining debts, whether they're being written off, whether they're being reprogrammed; in any case, the status of these debts will be clear. Another big problem, where we also have a plan, is the property book. Companies can't do business using a guarantee, because they don't have the property that can guarantee their debts, which they can mortgage, because it hasn't been done in the last 50 years. Only 25% of the property in Serbia is registered and 75% is not. Only 8-9% of our country's register was introduced. You have all the cities that run like farmland. The whole of New Belgrade is being run as agricultural land. You have factories that don't exist; let's say the Valyanica copper in Sevojn at Užica, when they entered the privatisation negotiations, it turns out that it's not registered, that it's a laziness, that it doesn't exist legally. So, you've got a huge backlog of the property registration, and when it comes to privatization of the company, it has some facilities, which don't exist legally, and then that potential buyer says, "I'm sorry, I don't want to go to trial with someone, but I want to know what I'm buying." That's another problem we'll also try to solve this summer. The third problem in this block of obstacles is that we lack a public atmosphere for entrepreneurship. There is an anti-enterprise atmosphere currently in Serbia, partly caused by this previous period, because the property is acquired under suspicious circumstances, and in part is created and philosophy that only poor people are honest, and that as soon as you are no longer poor, you are probably not even honest anymore. And that's why potential customers, our domestic potential investors, are very reticent. We have a problem here. The concept of this government is that most of our economy is bought by our domestic investors, and that we reserve for foreign investors only what we call strategic partners. So, for big companies, where we need new technology, foreign partners should come in and bring in a foreign market. And not for our raw materials, in our factories, they produce things for our market and only a stranger owns it. It doesn't even make sense, and it doesn't have to. Because if you look at the NBJ report, you'll see that 8 billion marks have been changed to the euro. It's money to be invested in privatisation. So we need a political campaign to explain to the public that we can't have a domestic economy and industry, and that at the same time anyone who is a domestic businessman - an industrialist is suspicious. If we're going to say in the end -- everyone who's done something in the economy is suspicious and we need to conduct an investigation on them, then we need to make peace with that our economy will be in the hands of strangers, because they're probably not suspicious. We can't do both. That's the first block of trouble. The other is that we need simpler accounting, in order to know the business of one company; when you look at one piece of paper -- what is one side and what is the other side. Third, we need financial discipline. After these two operations I mentioned, it takes a mortgage to become an asset. Also, that the acceptive order becomes a means of unsuspecting debt collection and that debt collection becomes something natural in our business. The fourth, of course, is behind all that and then the possibility of cheaper investment loans. It's a company restructuring package. It can't be done by the government with taxpayers' money. The government cannot give the current management of social enterprises money so they can restructure companies and that tomorrow these companies are allegedly a little more expensive on the market. We can help them with these mechanisms that I mentioned, to get them into that traffic themselves, and to find "drivers" who can successfully "drive" those vehicles. Company. And that's what we're gonna do this summer and this fall. I am sure that at the end of this year we will have a significantly higher number of private companies in our country that were social; they will all want to be the engine of production and economic development. But it is not the economic development engine's budget; it must not allow taxpayers' money to be a shock of privatisation or to be used by existing management in enterprises to resolve the issues of their businesses. As much as this budget is very clearly defined by the priorities of a normal state, normal financial discipline. It's not any revolutionary budget, which should be used as a means of extinguishing fire both left and right. That's why I suggest that, as the minister has said, you vote for these changes, because these are changes in the country in transition, where you can rebalance the budget in order to increase incomes, not to increase income from taxpayers. So you don't take anyone here, and you give someone more than the original concept of the budget was supposed to. I think it's one good news, and I hope by the end of the year, there'll be similar news like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22265	I thank Mr. Djindjic, Prime Minister. (Jovan Todorovic asking for a word. No, there is no basis for replication, Mr. Todorovic. The emissary insists on that. ) We continue the joint principled search on the draft law amending the Budget Law and the draft law amending the Tax Act on Financial transactions. According to statements for the People's MPs, the word has been issued by MP Milos Radivojcevic, from the DOS-Democratic Alternative Group, and the next reported was Milos Todorovic, the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22266	Dear Presidency, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Alternative, I will give very briefly the reasons why we support the amendment and addition of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions. As far as the first law is concerned, it is above all necessary to go from what causes this rebalancing. He was, above all, caused by compliance with the provisions of the omnibus law. Since we have pleaded for the omnibus law, there is absolutely no reason not to support these amendments and additions to the Budget Law. On the other hand, when we analyzed all this we were offered, we started from the total budget items -- both from budget implementation and from budget inflows; if both items are placed in relation to what was planned for the whole year, they are executed at a very high percentage. This percentage is even over 95%, which absolutely brings us certainty that the entire budget will be implemented as planned. The analysis of certain budget items ripped out of the context of the whole is completely pointless, because there is something called the dynamics of the inflow and the outflow into the budget. So, we need to run a full budget analysis at the end of the year, and that's what we're going to do, of course. Because of all this, there is no dilemma with us, and we will support these amendments to the Budget Law. As far as this second legislative proposal on amendments and amendments to the Financial transaction Tax Act is concerned, I must say that this is one clear message to the economy, first and foremost, on the reduction of the cost of capital, which has been announced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia i.e. The finance ministry and, no matter what it may be, it's a little late in my opinion, I welcome it anyway. What to say here, when analysing the percentage of tax cuts on financial transactions, is that it should start from its structure i.e. the structure of the overall burden on financial transactions as it is now. It is 0.6% and accounts for 0.3% of the financial transaction tax and 0.3% of the PDO commission. However, half of the PDO commission goes directly to the budget and is used for social contributions and pension payments. Therefore, the total fiscal intervention so far is not 0.3 but 0.45%. As the bill now reduces the average tax on financial transactions to a percentage of 0.2989, it is clear how much the discharge is. On the other hand, an agreement has also been reached that the PDO commission is reduced on average from 0.08 to 0.14 depending on what the transfer order is, so that it is respected what is practically the Ministry of Finance and has promised - to reduce the total cost of payment traffic by about 30%. What was particularly important to us, in the analysis of this bill, is Article 3, which is very important and is treated with exemptions from the billing and payment of taxes on financial transactions, where a significantly expanded range of this release compared to how it has been so far. However, we have noticed that there are two indiscretions. One indetermination is in point 2) of sub-point (10) concerning the purchase of foreign exchanges and effective foreign money between banks and between banks and the National Bank of Yugoslavia. These are practically those transactions carried out on the interbank exchange market, where business banks appear on behalf of their committees and make mutual exchanges for certain payments abroad. However, it should be said that our legal persons come in another way to foreign exchange, and that is direct purchase by business banks. And, if analysed on average, it can be said that legal persons buy 50% foreign exchanges on the interbank market and 50% directly from business banks. For this reason, we felt it was necessary to supplement this point (10) and we proposed an amendment to supplement it by saying "on the basis of the purchase of foreign exchanges and effective foreign money between banks and between banks and the National Bank of Yugoslavia", we added: "as well as the purchase of foreign exchanges between banks and legal entities", so that the second part of the purchase would practically be undermined by the release of the tax on financial transactions. The second deficiency in this bill is in the same article, but in point 4) where it is said that the exemption from the payment of the sales tax is also made for the payment of checks. Of course, we felt that this should also apply to all payment cards, given that the way in which the cash payment is paid should be stimulated in any case, and the payment cards at this point in the total payment turnover take part in Serbia at a very small percentage, which does not mean that it will also be in the next period. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, we were very comprehensively discussing all this, and we agreed that, because of some purely technical things and because of certain formulations, and in order not to be wrong about the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this amendment was recast and that it was practically the amendment of the Committee on Finance, and that the amendment that I had submitted was rejected, which was agreed by the Prime Minister. I'm taking this opportunity, because I won't report back for the amendment later, so I can withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22267	The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22268	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers, amending and supplementing the Budget Law and amending the Law and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act have been announced as our last chance. They've been delivered to us urgently and are required to be adopted even more urgently. The government stresses that the amending budgets are the result of the Budget System Act, and that it has recently been brought (quote) "to further create conditions for faster economic recovery in 2002, faster access to the world capital market and to reduce the backlog of our country for other countries in transition". The government continues to threaten that the adverse consequences of the non-administering of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transaction under an urgent procedure will be manifested in the postponement of the discharge of the economy, delaying the creation of conditions for reducing capital costs, delaying the creation of conditions for reviving the primary and secondary market of securities from value, as well as delaying the creation of more favourable conditions for the implementation of a credit-monetary policy. No less, no more. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, this ghastly announced cataclysm can be avoided, by the government's assessment, by simple and urgent pressure on the key. We're voting and lightning in the government's better future. And who here doesn't want faster economic recovery, faster access to the world capital market, who doesn't want to reduce our country's backlog for other countries in transition, to dispel the economy of unnecessary expenditure and reduce capital costs, and finally, who wouldn't want to create favourable conditions for the implementation of credit-money policy? We all want to, but we understand that none of this will be achieved by passing these two laws. Besides, we'll see to it soon enough. DOS outside, with the kidnapped majority, is waiting to vote. This stalking machine is eager to justify the cost of its existence by adopting everything the government proposes. That's why we'll soon feel the consequences of this law. Now that I mention the presence of the DOS majority here, it's touching how much the government is paying them. In fact, there is a congestive and thick text in the budget -- the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia 178m dinars, or threem euros. So the government gives its pets, who are always ready, great money for loyalty and value. For travel expenses alone, 75 million dinars are planned, significantly more than a million euros. It is not surprising then that MPs are constantly on the road, so they often have to vote from distant exotic countries and regions. I see some MPs have been missing in DOS since the start of the World Cup in football, so they and Japan aren't far. But back to the budget, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to overpaid MPs, there is still a mysterious item -- the President of the Republic, with a sum of 20 million dinars. What's being financed and for what reasons, the government probably doesn't know. Here, after two years, this mysterious institution of the President of the Republic came forward and proposed to us the composition of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22269	People's MP, I remind you of the obligation to treat the MPs with respect, which you failed to do in the imaginative part of your presentation, especially the institution of the President of the Republic. Please be careful of polite address and respect for all those you have a comment on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22270	Thank you. Well, if that's even $20 million, if that's okay, but it's too expensive to be so costing us the composition of the Constitutional Court. In addition to the Assembly and the President of the Republic, the government predicted that it would pay itself fat, with 112 million dinars. At the government's expense, its ministries and districts should be added, and they are very expensive. I am particularly touched by - what is hidden behind the item: social contributions to employees of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, where 100 million dinars are foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen, for 17 years I have been working in the state administration, I am fully familiar with the social map of my colleagues working in the state administration and the local administration. The bill's proposer argues that the budget has not been increased, but that new items are foreseen instead of previously planned payments of eight billion dinars, and in the adoption of the budget, in December of last year, the government manipulated these payments as certain. Should we trust her, or should we not trust her now? On page 7, there's something really amazing -- in terms of the law, the government complains about low inflation, which is why its planned revenues have failed. That's why it predicts faster price increases by the end of the year. It means "on an angry wound, angry grass." Maybe it'll help us hyperinflation, fill out the budget. Unfortunately, the biggest expert in the area, 1993, is on its way. Maybe you should ask him to come back, help you. He also failed the extraprofitor's income. This should not be a problem for the government, provided that the list of the same ones is not shortened in the future. In the end, I won't miss to mention the new coin - restructuring. Without her, there's no story, and she's the subject of this law. It is said that people who are fired for restructuring social and public enterprises will find jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Serbian Unity Party don't believe that. These small and medium-sized enterprises have already failed and they will not hire anyone, perhaps because a professor of small and medium-sized enterprises, a certain gentleman, has not become Deputy Prime Minister. The Proposer continues to show (on page 8).), which is truly amazing, that further progress in curbing the grey economy depends on achieving projected income in 2002. If the budget depends on it, gentlemen, it's not good for us or for the budget. And finally, I have to note that the budget rebalancing did not provide items in the cost of certain ministries, say the Ministry of Justice - the cost of development and promotion of the Democratic Party, with the Ministry of Police - funds for New Democracy, with the Ministry of Education - for the Civil Union, etc. All of the above-mentioned parliamentary group cannot accept responsibility and vote for such a bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22271	The word is by MP Dusan Drinjakovic. Excuse me, MP, MP Dragan Markovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22272	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the O.R. should be present at 84 MPs, and you don't have 60 MPs. That's what I've been saying since the beginning of this session -- that MPs from DOS come in, they log in, they take high diaries and go out; 131, so where are they, tell me where they are, 52 MPs from DOS are currently in the O.R. Some MPs from the interior make over 70,000 dinars, and now you're 52. It's a shame and a humiliation of Serbia and this home, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask you to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22273	National MP Dragana Markovic, I will give you my word once again, to give the contents of the proposal to determine the quorum according to the Rules of Procedure. It's the respect of the National Assembly. You don't know, MP. If you know how to make a proposal to determine the quorum, here you are, you have a second announcement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you don't know, then, under Article 84(2), I will give you instructions whenever you want to. Here you go and make a neat proposal to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22274	I guess the quorum is determined by the MPs putting their MP cards into the MPs' units, I think there are cards, and there's no MPs in the O.R. Please, you know how to determine the quorum, to determine the quorum, Article 82.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22275	Since MP Dragan Markovic has not submitted a proposal under Article 84(2) to another intervention, it is my duty to inform the MP requesting the breach of the Rules of Procedure that he is obliged to quote the provision of a member of the Rules of Procedure which he considers to be violated or to address the Administrative Committee at the time of the hearing. But we understand each other and I ask the MPs to establish a quorum for work. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word is by MP Dusan Drinjakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22276	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I am taking this opportunity because I am obliged to Mr. Djelic to remind him that I was one of the greatest critics when we were in a public meeting projectioning budgets in municipalities. Namely, when he convinced me not to be so tough, to wait, time would show its own, I was stubborn, but we did an analysis of income and expenditure in the municipality ten days ago for the first five months and I can say that Mr. Djelic was right. In fact, the projected budget of 544 million dinars has been shown to be running faster by 18.07%, so the budget in Cačak municipality will be 642 million, and we hope that it will grow further, so maybe somewhere in October we will have some new rebalancing. So for six years, I've been on a similar ground, just a rope, that municipal one, and I don't think there's any field for hypocrites better than the field budget. They use it for petty political interests and people who work on that budget know what it means to make one budget. Of perhaps 200 users, you will now have 200 hypocrites who will criticise it. It's just my wish, if at all possible, to put those 200 together in one place and look on the side, to see how they'll get along and make a budget, but really, it's impossible. I really think people who work on it should be given a big confession. Namely, what did we stand for? We've advocated that there be an overflow, that is, to be decentralisation, and that municipalities get as much funding as possible. Just on the case of Cachak municipality, I'll say there's more than 18%, and where did that come from? For so many seas, the republican budget is smaller, because it is the principle of joined courts. You can't have a drastic growth in both places now. I must say, again, that the hypocrites will tell you that what the Ministry has done with Mr. Djelic may have been one candy. Yeah, it is candy, but it's "bronchie" and I can tell you it's a little easier to breathe from it. I've been working on these jobs for six years, and I've seen the municipal budget drop from 12 million to three million marks; it's now 22 million marks. Believe me, given all the changes that take place in society, that's still one visible progress. DHSS MPs will support all these amendments and additions to the Budget Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22277	The word of the Messenger of the people, Vojislav Seselj, is not present. After him is the word of the Messenger of the people Radojko Petric, and after the Messenger of the people Radojko Petric, the word of the Messenger of the people is Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22278	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, although the debate is in principle being held united on two points of the agenda, I will only tie my presentation to one point, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial transaction Tax Act. On behalf of the financial transaction tax, 52.7% were charged for the first four months of this year, compared to the plan for the whole year, many talk about unrealistic planning and the government's assessment as well as a significant tax reduction of all business account holders. The finding of a poor assessment of the government gets even more weight when it is known to be an ever-increasing business activity in the last months of the business year compared to the initial months. Without amending the law, there would be almost double the amount of tax in relation to the estimated amount in the budget. This is also seen from the movement of the amount of tax in the first months of this year. Namely, the charge was made in the following amounts -- in February 897 million, in March, billions and 36 million, and in April, a billion and 329 million. According to the provisions of this law, which we passed on 18 April last year, this tax is paid at a rate of 0.3% on almost all Virman's payments, i.e. the debt turnover in the paid traffic achieved through accounts, and all legal entities and entrepreneurs. In addition to the tax on financial transactions, a payment of 50% of the revenue obtained by the Office for Accounting and Payment is made from the compensation for the provision of payment services. Otherwise, the Office for Accounting and Payment shall charge payment services of 0.30% on all Virman payments. According to the above, the price of capital transactions is burdened with taxes of 0.6%. For the sake of true information to the public, it should be said that the PDO of payment fee for the provision of payment services 50% immediately transfers to the Trust and Pension Insurance Fund, and this is what a small number of legal entities and entrepreneurs are familiar with, and therefore often, even though they are not familiar, object that expensive payment services are, thinking that the PDO keeps the entire amount to itself. The adoption of the Financial transaction Tax Act has ceased to be subject to the Security Act to eliminate the earthquakes in the Kolubar district, the Law on the Security of Land Recovery Funds and the Law on the Security of Funds for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia. Under all three of these laws, the funds of 0.15% were allocated to the debt turnover achieved in payment traffic. In other words, the Financial transaction Tax Act has been repacked and united by the three laws adopted by the Socialists. The only thing they have in common is a total fund-raiser, and everything else is different. Let's take the turn. First, on the removal of the aftermath of the earthquake that took place in September 1998, we heard data from MP Mucic, who was director of the Kolubar district's Construction and Development Directorate. Why doesn't DOS power show us now, why it doesn't represent how many of them have built or restored the earthquake-damaged objects since they took over. Why has there been a drastic decline in reconstruction, even though the tax is fully charged? Secondly, the Socialists have passed a law on the security of the country's funds for the reconstruction of the country with a fundamental purpose to resuscitate the consequences of NATO aggression. We have seen that funds continue to be collected through taxes on financial transactions, but we do not see what these funds are spent on. It is appropriate to remind ourselves that in 2000 alone, funds from these sources participated from 46.1% in the recovery and construction of buildings to 220 sites across Serbia. From June 1999 to December 2000 42 road bridges, 15 railway bridges, as well as hundreds of houses, apartments, schools, hospitals, etc. were renovated. It deserves special attention to be given to the start of an apartment building program. The apartment building programme meant more than just resolving one of the basic life issues of young professionals, but also the momentum of Serbia's overall economic development. Why is DOS government stopping all of this, and the funds are still being raised? It doesn't sound very convincing or an explanation that, with a proposal to amend this law, the government has given to reduce the interventions on financial transactions. It states that the average tax rate on financial transactions will be 0.29%. The tax for orders of up to 50,000 should be 0.41%, and for orders between 50 and 100, it should be 0.37%. Taking into account, and in this explanation, the government is saying that up to 60,000 dinars are participating from 95% in the total number of warrants, then the logical question is, is what the government is saying, that this tax will come down to 0.29%. In fact, it raises doubts about the databases that we've been presented here. The government's explanation that the intervention from financial transactions based on tax exemptions will be reduced is only conditionally correct. Namely, there are certain exemptions where so far there have been virtually no such financial transactions. For example, the transport of shares, the purchase of capital, the purchase of shares from the portfolio of the Republic of Serbia's action fund and the like. The only unquestionably positive in this bill for amending the law is that the billing tax for financial transactions is paid from the account of participants in payment traffic a decade, and not as it has been prescribed so far - to be paid daily, when the business transaction is carried out. And here should be given the fact that the tax is still not charged daily, but is charged, according to the PDO's instructions, on Mondays and Thursdays. Because of everything said, until questions are answered and the purpose of the funds to continue to be raised under this law is defined, it would be normal for the government to withdraw this bill from further proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22279	The word has been given by the MP Miomir Ilic, after which MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22280	Dear People's MPs, since there is no Prime Minister, I welcome the only representative of the government of Minister Djelic - some questions I will ask here; and he will probably know how to answer. In the rebalancing or as you say in the amendments and additions to the Serbian budget, you obviously failed to comply with certain laws that you and I have passed together, although we voted against. That, above all, refers to amendments to the Ministry Act. In the rebalancing process, the distribution of items in the income and cost section was to be divided according to the new compositions of the ministries, so that: in section 10 - the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry is no longer but agriculture and water economy; in that part it was necessary to single out and, in the income and distribution terms, to show the part that was adopted and balanced in accordance with the law, in particular in the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management and the organisational scheme of the Water Directorate. The Water Directorate is very important for water organizations: agriculture, water economy, ecology and overall economy. It is important because, since 1999, in the areas of the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia, and if you want to hear from neighbouring republics, or states, weather disasters that require assistance are taking place, and this should be heard because the Minister of Agriculture is not here; then we are talking to Minister Djelic who needs to hear this, because in the financial part of this support is not enough because there have been so many time disasters in this period of 4-5 years that have seriously threatened our agricultural areas, industrial and business facilities, population and overall infrastructure, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the municipalities in which it happened. In Serbia alone, more than 1,600,000 hectares of farmland have been threatened; large floods, especially this year, especially in the Sava, Morava, Mlava and Peka bays, where 512 settlements, 515 industrial and commercial buildings, 680km of railway lines and 4,000km of traffic are potentially threatened. For this reason, you had to, when you made the budget and budget rebalance all of this to keep in mind, so that the item in the division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management was adequately represented by income and distribution. I believe that these indicators that you have made here: that the plan and the budget for this year are based on an increase in industrial production at an annual level of 2-3%; 4% gross products and 20% inflation, you have not given real answers to the situation -- as industrial production moves in the first five months, what is the growth of the social product, so that we can figure out how much inflation, which is smaller, is insufficient -- for you to collect income on these grounds and achieve planned revenue in the budget. In the analysis you gave for a period of four months this year, you say that we are in the revenue section -- although you have not mathematically calculated the amount of donors from abroad, because the 2002 budget of the Republic of Serbia states that foreign donors should have an inflow of 10 or 12 billion dinars, thus collecting 1.2 billion dinars of donor funds, the largest part for Japanese wheat. There's one item, please the minister, you didn't listen, listen to the people, voters and voters, 616 million dinars standing here in a table review of the selected donation funds from the NBJ, it's probably the National Bank of Yugoslavia. I'm curious, or I'm asking, what kind of foreign donations from the National Bank of Yugoslavia amounting to 616 million dinars? This is a total of the donor funds raised during this period from January to April of the current year. How much were planned, and especially how much was spent on agriculture, and even forestry and water production for this period of four months; it was spent as it stands here, means 1.3 billion dinars of the planned 7.7 billion dinars, which is about 18% of the planned 33% for this quarter. If we compare your indicators on page and table 1, it can be seen that you weren't exactly jealous of the planning and spending of funds. Under point 17, the current budget reserve, you spent a total of three billion and 275 million, out of which RTS 819 million dinars, which is much more than what agriculture, forestry and water industry should have. For that reason, I think the observation here is quite in place; you should look at it, so in a new rebalancing, for some period of a few months you balance it. I mean, as a man from the water industry, we supported the proposal even though we were an opposition party, and we suggested that a special water ministry be established, but we accepted an amendment that said that a special treatment of the Water Directorate was given at the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Administration. I don't see why you didn't make that point right now. As far as the laws are concerned, which transferred the rights to Vojvodina to establish a public water company called the Vojvodina and the Vojvodina, we have nothing against it, but it is that this part of Serbia remains totally unorganised, in the sphere of the economy. In view of all the events that have been happening these days, I think that for this parliament, which is the highest legislative authority and how important, if the Government will not think about it, especially for the citizens; the fact that 10 days ago in the area of Petrovec, Žaguvica, Kučeva, Požrevevac was flooded by tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural areas and that thousands of houses were evicted in Petrovac on Mlava. It's not like there's traffic and noise here without the Minister of Agriculture saying a word about it! In every normal democratic state, the agriculture minister should, on this basis, resign. Since he won't, we'll ask him to resign again. I believe this discussion of mine has been in the spirit of all this and the proposal you've submitted to the SPS will refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22281	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Rada Bajic. Just please excuse the previous speaker, as it was the basis for not holding the subject, that if you comment on the amendment and supplement of the Budget Law, you are doing so with the material that came from the Government with June 18th and an explanation for the re-sending after June 14th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22282	Dear fellow MPs, the respected presidency, Mr Minister, when we discussed and adopted the Financial transaction Tax Act a little over a year ago, in April 2001, just as the SPS parliamentary group failed to convince the "taze" of Minister Djelic, who still meant French and spoke Serbian , that the tax rate of 0.3% for all financial transactions at the time of making payment services is too high. [[growls]] You, DOS gentlemen, welcomed us to the knife, told us that we wanted to tear down the budget, that we were blinded by past times, and when we proposed that some other categories of financial transactions be free of tax, you claimed that the proposed releases were maximum that the government couldn't increase, that that's all you could accept. You also compared some European countries and claimed that this was the lowest rate. Thanks to your work of art with the green button, DOS majority passed the law. Today, as you adopted yesterday the "unnecessarily" ministry and the Minister of Ecology, again by force, now only the changed but safer DOS majority without the DSS, you are pushing for total tax capital transactions since then to be adopted 0.6 as a reduction. Again, for who knows which way, you replace the the thesis and with the help of prescribing or precise enjoy visions. and dictatorships in the entire press, the unseen manipulator written by Baby Popovic, you are trying to convince thousands of small entrepreneurs and citizens that you are generously cutting their taxes on financial transactions. [[growls]] Do you think those entrepreneurs, those companies of which 95% of total payment orders are not going to see that their taxes are exactly the same? Don't you think they know what a tax of 0.6 and 0.55% is? To whom, Mr. Minister, are you doing a real service to these changes to the Financial Transition Tax Act?- I'm sorry. Obviously, you don't want to say it openly, you're doing it to yourself. State and big state firms. The biggest benefit from this bill will be the EPS and NIS; because it is only the only companies that pay daily sums of over five million dinars from their business organisations from Belgrade and all of Serbia on their central accounts. In these cases, duties will be reduced by 50%, from 0.6 to 0.3% only. In addition to these releases, even though we gave the EPS guarantees last week for that 100m-euro loan, and if you release them today all of these 50% and lower your payments to financial transactions, the new minister is proposing an increase in electricity prices by 50%, not respecting that you release them from this loan that allows the electricity industry to make by one amount more megawatts than it has now, you're going to go back to having to increase the electricity price. So surely you won't protect the largest number of participants in the payload! Now I'm saying that you've come up with all this cleverly to practically increase the Republic budget. Let's look at the list of those you put in the legal proposal for tax exemption on financial transactions. It's clear here that it's actually just those companies, those parts that are directly connected to the state. When you sell companies, the state will stay; because the state won't pay tax traffic when traffic is carried out on the basis of the purchase of capital or the property of the company in the privatisation process and, not to mention, because they're all very well, very well, you know. Mr. Minister, you accidentally or deliberately forgot to release the tax on financial transactions from the sale of foreign currency between banks, private persons and legal persons, probably aware that the economy has enough money, so when you can't put it into a national basket, let the economy pay freely, because it's also very rich. Mr. Ministers and fellow MPs, these are just some of the reasons the SPS parliamentary group will not support this legislative proposal. We don't want thousands of small businesses and most of the employees of payment tax to stay at the high current 0.55% level and only the state to profit from all of that. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will be against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22283	The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, followed by the MP Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22284	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. In the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in December 2001, one of the government's basic premises was to adopt the budget and propose the law to ensure macroeconomic stability in the country, which is normal and that is the definition of each government, to create conditions for the growth of investment, production and employment. In the past four months, and we have just witnessed these three tasks that the government has given itself -- an increase in investment, employment and production -- but none of it was. You predicted a change and a supplement, or budget rebalance, and we have nothing against those reasons that you stated; because if the structure changes, if changes occur in the ministries and because of the autonomous province, there had to be rebalancing. You saw here in the report that the budget deficit for the first four months is 11.578.000,000; to make it worse, it increases from month to month: in January it was 1,814,000, in April 4.260.000,000. It would be normal at first to plan a balanced budget, i.e. that income and expenditure are balanced. If that's not the case, if the deficit is planned, at least in the big time, we'd have to know the sources from where the deficit is going to settle. Come on, as we say, loans from the National Bank and from our banks, we can count on it, but loans from the World Bank and donations, which are conditioned from day to day, to humiliation, are simply unacceptable to be taken as a serious source for covering the deficit! The Prime Minister said the deficit is planned against the budget of only 2%. If you put 11.578.000,000 deficits in the budget of 53,635,000, then it is clear that the deficit is 21% of the budget. So, how to cover it; and you saw it grow from month to month and assume that it will far exceed the planned deficit in the budget, which was planned in December 2001! If the dynamics of taking credit continue this way, the question is whether we will even get loans under what conditions from international financial houses. So, are we going to be able to settle all the obligations that are planned, if it is known that only in the first four months for pensioners 40.9% of the planned funds are spent; it is good that they are paid month by month, it is assumed that they will far exceed the funds paid; and if they are said to be still some percentage increase, by the end of the year these funds that are planned will not be enough either. It has been said that no revenue has been achieved in the budget because planned inflation has not been achieved, tax revenues have not been achieved and there is no privatisation funds. Even incomes from extraprofit tax were entered here, so we clearly told you that extraprofit tax is a selective tax, because it applies only to companies and individuals who, as you say, belonged to the former regime. It doesn't occur to you that he touches the thin guy and his extra profit, who is now close to the regime and who is in the current regime. (Zeljo Huric: Who is he? Zeljo, I don't know if you have it, but it won't touch you if you have it. There's probably no one else to take from! The privatisation income is not achieved at all, and he should be going into some investments -- we're not going to spend the privatisation income on phone bills, on paper or something, but on investments, so that the privatisation income makes profits and profits in the next period. As far as taxes are concerned, it is clear that they are planned in a high amount and that they cannot be realised. Unfortunately, it is as if we regret that there was no inflation and that the costs at a little bit were cumulative about 10% compared to the planned 20%, and only once we said shyly - because of the stagnation of business activities. Well, that's the basic reason. If there was no stagnation of economic activity and the decline of economic production, it would simply not have been possible that tax revenues are not realised at the planned level, they would have been achieved even at a level that is higher than planned. So he's worried about this kind of deficit over the past four months and assuming he's going to be much bigger by the end of the year. I don't see at all how the deficit will be covered, there won't be any credit, not even the National Bank will be able to grant such loans to cover this deficit. For these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group cannot accept such a draft amending and supplementing law on the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22285	The word has been given by MP Sreten Mitrovica, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22286	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is the key reason for amending and supplementing the 2002 budget, according to the minister, is to bring the AP Duke's budget into line with the Omnibus Law adopted by this assembly. I would refer to the change and implementation of the Kosovo Metohija budget. The budget that we adopted for 2002, aside from the salaries planned for workers in certain ministries, i.e. for those workers who received their own personal income from the budget, also planned an item -- an ongoing transfer for southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. The same item, in the amending budget that we have received today, added the item - transfer to municipalities and cities of 919 million; the Kosovo and Metohija, although in the budget, were said to be in the explanation, were the funds for the work of the Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, i.e. the Co-ordination Centre for South Serbia and the funds for the needs of other authorities of Kosovo and Metohija. Is this some kind of printing error, or is it, in addition to everything that all institutions in Kosovo are erasing, the intention to delete and what is in Serbia's budget?- I'm sorry. Of the funds used for these purposes, we from Kosovo and Metohija have absolutely nothing. What happened in southern Serbia? And that south, many connect with the space of Kosovo and Metohija; we have no insight, but to improve infrastructure, especially improving the life of the village population that remains, despite the budgets adopted in municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, nothing is done by what UNMIK and KFOR are planning in the municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija. She has done nothing, neither the state, or this government -- to help the remaining Serb population improve life in Kosovo and Metohija. What the minister noted about amending the budget at the Ministry of Social Affairs is an additional need for the financing of persons outside Kosovo and Metohija, worth 400m dinars. I wonder - which faces are these? We know that there are only 3,500 workers in central Kosovo, who have not received their own income, and a large number of refugees in Serbia's space are unsettled. Is this enough money and is this social enough for Serbs who have stayed in Kosovo and Metohija, and for those who have been exiled? In one of my previous discussions, I said that Kosovo and Metohija do not respect the laws of the Serbian state, and if we do not respect them, how do we expect UNMIK and KFOR to respect them; and based on Resolution 1244, all the laws of the Republic of Serbia should also be respected in this area. So there's no respect for what we've adopted in the budget. As an example, I will say that the authorities of local self-government financed from the budget, which I said last time, do not treat all Kosovo and Metohija residents equally. Those municipalities that kept their seats receive personal incomes under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, while those who by force had to leave their seats and move to safe seats for the Serb population today receive the same social benefit. For example: a teacher in high school, although a fama was created to receive and pay more 200% of the "two percent" of 5,000 in Kosovo; if we compare that to the same income in the Republic of Serbia, we will see what the salaries of workers who remained and those who received salaries from the budget were from Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, ministers, what people and workers from Kosovo and Metohija want, which are financed from the budget, as well as everyone else in the Republic of Serbia, is that personal incomes are received under the laws of the Republic of Serbia and respected as all workers in the Republic of Serbia who receive their income from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22287	The word has been given by MP Nebojsa Jovic and is the last registered speaker in the principle debate - a joint search.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22288	Honorable MPs, respected ministers, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial transaction Act amends the Financial transaction Tax Act, which we adopted in April 2001, when a tax on payment transactions was introduced. The tax excluded financial transactions relating to tax payments, contributions, fees and other public revenue; transfer and allocation of funds from aggregated and other accounts; budget revenue, compulsory social insurance organisations, trusts educated by law; payment of the prescribed liabilities of public enterprises and payments and payments of pensions, salaries, i.e. earnings and other personal incomes through current citizens' accounts, as well as payment of citizens' checks. These amendments and additions to the Law introduce new releases. That's when we got the financial transaction tax at 0.3%. With the entry into force of the Financial transaction Tax Act in April of April, the Law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Colubary County, which was adopted in 1998 and published in "The Official Messenger", No. 36/98, which imposed the obligation to pay for the contribution of solidarity to all jobs, the business transactions carried out in payment traffic, at a rate of 0.15% and those funds were used as grants to eliminate earthquakes, in the manner and conditions established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what counterpart Mucic was talking about earlier. At the same time, the law on the provision of funds for the reconstruction of the country, which was published in "Spect. RS messenger, number 33/99, right after NATO's aggression ended on our country. This business transaction law paid a special rate tax of 0.15% and transferred these funds to the finance ministry's special account, and the finance ministry transferred funds to the Republic of Croatia's recovery directorate. By abolishing the law on the provision of resources for the reconstruction of the DOS country, it left out the reconstruction and construction of the country, launched and implemented by the government of national unity. Your DOS has not built any facilities destroyed in NATO aggression, and repair of broken bridges, railways, refineries and other facilities has been suspended; it has also slowed the construction of apartments for young couples, members of the military and the MUP. All of this caused a construction operation to stop, and a large number of workers were out of a job. Also, the Financial transaction Tax Act has ceased to apply the Security Act for the implementation of the Social Programme of the Republic of Serbia and - Art. 1st Article 2nd point 2. The law, which applied to 50% of the compensation for the provision of NBJ-PDO payment services, which is transferred to the Republic's budget. The draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Act exempts the transfer of paper from the values of the tax matter; if this is due to the need to lower the price of paper values from value, to speed up their turnover and to preserve the capital market, then I welcome it. But I ask the question -- what is real traffic to this day on this basis? Terminological harmonisation in Article 2 of Article 3, i.e. harmonising the concept - the payer, according to the provisions of the laws governing payment traffic, whose start is expected on 1 January 2003, would not comment because it is a federal regulation that has been announced many times, and that is not achieved, so I leave time to show whether it will actually come into effect. A proportional rate of 0.3% is also abolished by introducing a lower regressive tax rate, whose height depends on the level of the tax base. Regardless of the reduction in the financial transaction tax should be observed together with the fee paid by the NBJ for the provision of payment services, I would comment on the financial transaction tax, and besides that is the item of the agenda - given that payment is to be transferred to commercial banks, the question is which fee will be set by the business bank to conduct payment turnover. The average tax rate on financial transactions under the new bill is 0.2989%, which is 0.091% lower compared to the current rate, if seen as an average rate. But since it is a regressive tax rate, the question is whether the application of the regression rate really leads to a reduction in the tax on financial transactions, given that only on the basis of over a million dinars results in a decrease in the current rate from 0.30 to 0.27%, which is a decrease of 0.03%. All business transactions up to a million dinars have an increase in the tax on financial transactions, so up to 50,000 tax amounts to 0.41; orders up to 60,000 participate with even 95% in total turnover orders and have a rate of 0.37%; for orders between 100,000 and 500,000 taxes on financial transactions amounting to 0.34%, which means that the rate is higher than it was. The question even arises: whether 0.3% of the total number of orders, whose value is over a million dinars, with a rate of 0.27%, accounts for 48% of total payment turnover. If the review is looked forward, it is clear that there is no reduction in the tax on financial transactions on the amounts most present in payment. Article 3 proposes a tax exemption on the transfer of funds. Let's say, on the basis of the turnover of shares, on the basis of the purchase of capital, i.e. the assets of the privatisation company, on the basis of the purchase of shares from the portfolio of the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund, on the basis of loans and securities from the value between banks and between banks and the National Bank, on the basis of the purchase of securities issued by the Republic of Serbia, or the NBJ. It is now proposed to be exempt from paying taxes on financial transactions. I'm curious to know how much individual traffic was on every basis. For 2002, a tax on financial transactions amounting to 8.249 million dinars was planned; 4 were charged as of April 2002. 347 million dinars, which is 52.7% in percentages, and this is probably the reason for a reduction in the financial transaction tax. But how much, by April 2002, of the financial transaction tax structure, were transactions based on the transfer of securities from value, based on the turnover of shares, based on the purchase of capital, i.e. the assets of the privatisation company? These issues would probably give us the right reason for the draft law on amendments to the Financial transaction Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22289	Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the bill, you received information on the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the organisation of mandatory social security for the period January - April 2002, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law before I conclude the particulars of the search, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. I remind you, according to Article 148, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the voting day to decide on the draft law both in principle and in general. We move to item 4 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Financial Transactions (Seconds) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milos Radivojčević, Gvosden Jovanovic and Ljubomir Mucic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the government, Mr. Minister Bozidar Djelic rejects the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22290	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on financial transactions. This amendment proposed that in the current Article 2 of the amendment and supplementation of this law, which provides for a regressive rate of taxes on financial transactions, depending on the level of the basis, return the proportional rate which has so far been established and which has so far been valid, from 0.30% to all financial transactions, regardless of the level of the basis at which they are paid. We accept, as regards the Office of Payments, that it should and may introduce a proportionate, or regressive rate for paying the costs of financial transactions to the NBJ, and that the basis which constitutes the amount on the payment order cannot be the basis of the real tax burden and the amount of tax to be paid on the market for financial transactions. As a result, we also conducted controversy at the Committee session, and I think that we are very different in terms of the SPS Parliament Club, from the Government, and that is why I wanted to explain this amendment briefly. I hope you won't forget when it comes to voting that you have this seriously in mind, because nothing of my proposal changes in relation to what happened yesterday, and even today is in force in the proposal of this law, or the rate of 0.30% (which has been mentioned so far) and you will remember it well until this vote. Don't write, but remember, when you spend the night, you'll probably remember. The reasons why I proposed this are, above all, in the fact that 99.7% of the debtors by the number of orders pay a rate higher than the average rate, which is in the light of this law, which is said to be 0.2989%. These bonds pay 52% of the total tax liabilities, based on the financial transaction tax, and the highest number of taxpayers 90%, according to the number of orders, with a base of up to 60,000 dinars, so these are commitments that will be reduced by only seven percentage points, or a total of 0.05%. That is why the parliamentary group submitted the amendment, aimed at equating the tax on financial transactions. We think we should think about politics with this. (He speaks to an MP in the O.R.: Sir, you better think a little about Kragujevac, because those polls don't belong to you either, but they're in favour of what I'm saying, you're an MP, and you'd better think a little about those who voted in Kragujevac for you last time). For this reason, in order to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, for which this government is also advocacy, although we did not get from the Ministry of Structure and that - which companies participate in the largest number of these 90% of orders, however small and medium-sized enterprises are the largest number of financial transactions; therefore we have proposed that this law and this rate do not mean the actual tax force of taxpayers, but that this rate means the proportionate means that they should contribute to the fulfilment of deficits in the Republic's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22291	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) This concludes the debate on the amendment to Article 2. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, a representative of the Government accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to the next amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gvosden Jovanovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the government, Prime Minister Djelic rejects the amendment. Do you want to open an amendment debate? Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I didn't understand, are you withdrawing the amendment? Yeah. ) The applicant for the amendment is withdrawing the amendment to Article 3, which ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radivojcevic, who, on application and discussion, said in principle that he is withdrawing the amendment. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m., when we're going to continue on the 5th point of the agenda; 15.05 p.m., so the MPs have their hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22292	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for work and we can continue our work. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Private Entrepreneurs (principal debate) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to submit a list of registered MPs, who want a word on this agenda point. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the word of Proponent Representative Aleksandar Vlahovic, Minister of Economy and Privatisation want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the President of the Assembly, the Presidency, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs. This is one of our efforts to build a legal framework that should go in the direction of deregulation of conditions for the establishment of new businesses, in particular for the start of work by private entrepreneurs. A few months ago in this same place, we had before us the Law on the Central Republic Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, and then we said that activities to encourage entrepreneurship would go in three directions. One refers to raising the quality of capacity management level, by directly in charge of the central agency, along with regional agencies. You've been in a position for the past few weeks to witness the establishment of regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, whose task above all will be to provide potential entrepreneurs with quality information, organise the necessary training courses, so that something called the idea really goes too far in business. Not every idea is profitable and therefore it is necessary to have one synchronised activity at raising the level of knowledge and synchronised activity that is heading towards helping potential entrepreneurs prepare a business plan. Another activity is the creation of a guarantee fund (as support to private entrepreneurs) which will mean a further reduction in interest rates when using credit to finance their projects. We have concluded that it is not rational for the state to locate the necessary financial resources for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that this should be left to the private financial sector, and that the state should be the one that will give very clear support to the development of private entrepreneurship, both small and medium-sized enterprises, by guaranteeing any project proposed by the previous private financial institutions. You'll soon, hopefully no further than a month from today, have a bill on the establishment of a guarantee fund. Today, as part of the debate on amending the Budget Law, you have had the opportunity to see that a total billion dinars are set for these purposes. This means that anyone who has a very clear project and whose project will be financed by private financial institutions, or private bankers, if the problem is only a collateral guarantee there is a state guarantee fund that will stand behind private entrepreneurs. The third group of activities is something related to deregulation, to the removal of barriers in existing positive legal regulations. We have formed an inter-minister group within the government that does not allow any new law to contain obstacles to the development of private entrepreneurship, i.e. obstacles to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, we find that a number of previous laws contained a large number of obstacles that did not stimulate the development of private entrepreneurship and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. With this in mind, together with our colleagues from the Federal Government, we have submitted a proposal to amend the Law on Enterprises to the Federal Assembly and we expect that this proposal will be on the agenda of the Federal Assembly tomorrow. In the context of this problem, we see the basic step and the basic contribution and progress in the optional collection of inspection certificates, various documents that someone who wants to deal with entrepreneurship and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises will start with his business. Therefore, the amendments to the Company Act will make it easier to set up private businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises. The Law on Private Entrepreneurs also contained appropriate barriers that had a detimulative impact on the development of private entrepreneurship. With this in mind, these amendments to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs are proposed to eliminate these barriers. In this way, we are also working on harmonising this regulation with European Union regulations. This proposal was aimed at achieving: firstly, to establish actions by private entrepreneurs faster, without excessive administration and only at minimum necessary costs; secondly, to simplify the procedure for setting up actions with less evidence to be supplied, and in this sense liberalisation was carried out in the domain of school preparation for the performance. This does not prejudice the quality and manner of carrying out those activities for which special regulations are defined who can do so, for example, self-medical activities, etc. It is no longer necessary to demonstrate to the registration authority the legal basis for the use of the space in which the work is carried out, since it is a matter in the competence of other bodies and services in the framework of urbanism, construction inspection and the like. Finally, an inspection of the space and equipment before the start of the operation is necessary only for those activities that are hazardous to the life and health of the people and the environment, and for all other activities after the start of work in the regular inspection. You all come from local self-government and you all have complaints that come from private entrepreneurs that only one inspection certificate takes an indefinite number of days, and it's rarely a few months. We find that this very slowness in the procedure, in collecting inspection certificates, has often been the basis for corruption at the local level. In this way, we allow private entrepreneurs to start carrying out their activities while collecting inspection certificates during their activities, in an advanced period of time. The exception is the only activity that, without proper inspection certificates, can be dangerous to health and to the environment. So we removed that bottleneck; the previous procedures were long-term, non-synchronized by several competent inspections, and most importantly, they were very expensive. In addition to the faster process of opening the store, it is also proposed to close the store more quickly and easily in accordance with the regulations. We have a unique phenomenon: during 1990 and 1991 it was founded on a brighter enterprise. Today, these companies only formally exist. The largest number of these companies do not carry out their activities at all and it is about dead economic operators. Why do they only exist formally? Because the cost of closing an account is very expensive. In this way, we allow entrepreneurs, unless they have done the right enterprise, not to bear at least the consequences of closing their shops. With full liberalisation of the conditions and modes of work, a stricter criminal policy has also been proposed to break the rules in business. So, to conclude, in parallel with the adoption of amendments to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, which is the constitutional basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 72, it is also proposed to adopt amendments to the Law on Businesses in the Federal Assembly, which should now support our intention to implement a complete deregulation in the development of private business. My dear gentlemen, privatisation is going well and a good part of the economy will be privatized. We find that our inheritance is 800,000 unemployed and several hundred thousand who are only officially employed. These people have to work for the next four years in new jobs. New jobs are created in two ways: one is direct investment, large, foreign and domestic; the other is the development of private entrepreneurship, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let's remove the barriers so private business and private entrepreneurship can wave. That is the essence and purpose of these amendments to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22294	I thank the Minister for Economy and Privatisation, Mr. Vlahovic. Do the committees want the word? National MP Vlatko Sekulovic, deputy chairman of the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22295	Dear presidents, dear colleagues and colleagues, I won't take up too much of your time. In principle and in general, the Committee accepted this proposed legislative project. I believe that the project is in agreement with the previously reached conclusions of the Committee on support for the development of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. The only note: a total of four amendments were submitted; three of them were supported. One is not accepted, or supported, because we have respected the explanation of the Ministry's representative that the issue of the registration of employees in the shops is regulated by some other legal acts and that such a norm burdens this legal text which should be as simple as possible and as appropriate to the matter it regulates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22296	I would like to thank the Committee's rapporteur. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) Here is a word from MP Marko Culibrk, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22297	Dear People's MPs, this is the third law we bring from the realm of economy. I have to say, he's the best ever since these two. The Privatisation Act, although Mr. Minister said it was good for them so far, can't be assessed that way, because he's actually had only negative facts so far through the layoff of workers. The law on small and medium-sized enterprises, although passed, still does not produce facts, because we have not seen that small and medium-sized enterprises are founded in some large number. We can support some of the provisions of this law where certain barriers to the establishment of the store are lifted and where private entrepreneurs are relieved to get those permits. However, when laws are passed in the area of economy, their proposal must have a clear vision and operational solutions, as well as mechanisms and institutions of the planned economic model. There is no such thing in this law, as it was not in the previous corporate law, in the Law on Small and Medium Enterprises, in the Law on Privatisation. The current moment of transition calls for an answer to the question -- which is the best solution for faster economic recovery and economic development. One of the key objectives of any economic reform is to form an optimal economic structure, which means to increase the economic efficiency and competitiveness, as well as the maximum productive employment of a working population through a wide range of economic operators. As it is not disputed that changing the economic structure towards increasing its efficiency to create conditions for its successful and equal integration into the European and world economy should be a fundamental goal. On the one hand, we still have from a period of administrative socialism inherited excessive attaching importance to large enterprises, so-called. large systems such as development and employment carriers. On the other hand, there are a large number of private businesses, almost 400,000, but the structure of these businesses is not balanced and is mainly in the area of trade, financial or similar services. The construction of a new business environment is not spontaneous but is a planned process. Instead of proposing a new economic environment, the government is critical of past times - which is not a challenge today because it is clear to everyone that individual self-effectiveness is more effective than collective, that corporate governance is more efficient than bureaucratic and that markets are more natural than the planned economy - so that all solutions that are offered bring too much political hope and ideological criticism and less reality and systematic solutions. So we saw in the privatisation that the government felt quite simply that the social economy should be pushed down the hill at which the market economy is located, waiting for what would happen. However, the government's skills and ability to lower and implement social property and a system of a series of privatisation cliffs, with at least the cost and consequences of society in general. The second time is now proposed by the government, which is an accelerated increase in production, transport and services with more profitable and rational production through a private entrepreneurship strategy, which in the world has become a universal form of modern market economy. If they achieved that private entrepreneurs' participation in the economy was about 90%, and in developed countries it was 96-97%, when the total number of employees rose to 50%, we would open about 700-800 thousand new jobs. Also, it would reduce the average number of employees per company that now stands at around 82, while in modern countries it is much less, so in Japan, eight workers, in Germany 10, are coming to Japan 14. That's why helping entrepreneurs is a priority in the following directions. A key role in the initial phases is a country that, in addition to normative acts, needs to create a favourable general climate for the development of private entrepreneurship, as well as providing unique support to this process, to help develop private entrepreneurship based on concrete facilities in the priority sectors of production. World experience shows that without significant incentives from the state, there is no success. In developed countries, the market economy is the main regulator of all activities. But even the market is not the ideal regulator for economic movements, nor the creation of an optimal economic structure. That is why there is a system-organised network of institutions, whose job is exclusively to look after the development of private entrepreneurs, such as specialised agencies, funds and institutions, various public institutions such as universities, chambers, shelters, etc., private profit and non-profit institutions and institutions, business banks, as well as large businesses and corporations that care for private entrepreneurs. Also, the government does not have an adequate tax policy, which still does not have a developmental character and incentive, but exclusively has fiscal importance in filling the budget. There are no incentive measures for private entrepreneurship and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. There's no elimination of a gray economy that's a major obstacle to all this. We can welcome the Ministry's intention, with regard to the slow change of regulations, because the essence and strategy of the development of private entrepreneurship is to adapt federal and republican regulations to the needs of faster development; economic and system barriers that exist in the laws should be identified and amendments to these laws should be proposed. In practice, the establishment of actions, small and medium-sized enterprises faces certain issues with non-stimulative and restrictive legal solutions and unnecessarily complex administrative procedures that regulate the establishment of actions, then in the field of tax and customs policy, foreign trade, credit policy, labour and legal relations, payment of contributions to PIO, municipal and administrative fees. We hope that some of the next legislation proposed by the Ministry will be better, and that the first two, in particular the Privatisation Act, will be slightly improved, in order to maintain or be more humane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22298	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move to a debate in order of the registered speakers of all MPs. The word has a folk MP, Teodora Vlahovic, and after that, MP Vojislav Seselj, (not present), then MP Slobodan Tomovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22299	Mr President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable People's MPs, I just wanted to say a few words about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs. I think it would be good in the next period to go to one law that regulates the registration and organisation of all business entities, so in one law we would regulate and carry out personal work, i.e. the performance of private entrepreneurs, as well as the performance of other businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, because the most important part does not distinguish the performance of this business. If one law regulates it, it would be much better placed in practice and in other laws to carry out work on its own, as we popularly call it. In practice, there are still some differences that lead to absurdity. Let's say, private entrepreneurs, in order to enroll their internship, have to bear proof that they have paid both taxes or, in order to register their passenger vehicle, they have to settle and contribute to social security, because a single card is being run in the administration of income. Also, private entrepreneurs cannot appear in certain state institutions as credit users, as there is still a difference between private entrepreneurs and small businesses. These differences do not stem from the nature of activity, so these differences need to be overcome over time. When it comes to a concrete bill, however small the changes seem, they are not insignificant. They greatly simplify and simplify the registration above all and also the life of small shops. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the biggest procedure for registering was, in fact, within those activities for which Article 3(2) has been detained that the opening procedure remains the same. It's precisely those actions that threaten people's health and life, where it's undeniable that space should meet certain conditions. What I would like to suggest in this part - to separate that documentation that the entrepreneur personally submits to the competent authority of the administration when it is registered (she, normally, for each entrepreneur, because the activity is solely related to personal work, must be individual) from those permits and the approval that the facility is to be obtained. So, one object that's been customized and once controlled for proper action doesn't have to be re-proved every time the owner changes. It's very important, especially for the family business. It's getting more and more common with us that kids continue to deal with the work their parents are doing. Now you have one absurd thing when a father or mother stop working instead of a son or daughter continuing without any problems, except for proof of personal status, they must spend on these actions that are now listed for several months to prove the exact same space in which the same activity has been performed again fulfils the conditions. The difference should only exist at the moment when the minimum conditions are changed by law. Otherwise, these activities require the maximum number of inspection solutions and this takes the longest time in the process. That would be my suggestion, to separate that part, that every time you prove that this object meets the conditions, but not to tie it to the owner's personality, but to tie it to the space and yes, you, with the same permits of someone who did it before you, can prove that space meets all the necessary conditions. Otherwise, I'd like to welcome all the changes made to management, or to the management of the business through the manager, because if by law it was possible for a member of the family household to work without being reported, then it's normal for him to be able to run the shop now. Some deadlines that were led to absurdities have been changed, related to the rest of the course of the year, that there is no need for you to appear every time; then, in the event of death, you have to appoint an heir within three days, which was even inhuman, I would say. Many things have been seen very well and changed. In the end, I would take advantage of the minister's presence and say two more things. First, when we prepared a round table in Belgrade and Novi Sad for women's entrepreneurship, we were promised to make one effort and address the authorities of the office where the store register is conducted, that statistics are conducted neatly so that we can monitor how many women entrepreneurs there are. That's one thing. Second, both private entrepreneurs and owners of small and medium-sized enterprises. We had a promise that soon we would see a programme for women's entrepreneurship, and we hope it will be soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22300	The word is by MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by MP Bogoljub Zečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22301	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw your attention at the beginning to analyze some of the provisions of the reasoning. So, I'd like to comment on some of these arguments in one part of the term, more because there might be something else, which means a different angle of observation of this law and of these problems. So I'd start with what's said in the explanation: "Article 1. Article 8 of the applicable Law on Private Entrepreneurs Act with Article 1 of the same Act, which stipulates that a private entrepreneur performs his or her own activities under the conditions and in the manner laid down in this Law, as well as that the activities laid down by a special law are carried out in a manner and under the conditions provided for by that Law, so there is no need to regulate the same issue. In this respect, point 2) of the heading 1 has been deleted, as the issue of vocational education for the performance of the work is governed by specific laws for these areas, and the position of the 3rd member has been deleted, as the public transport activity of passengers and things is also regulated by a special regulation. "My first question to the promoter and the public is whether these laws, which regulate the issues of vocational education and public transport, have been changed since the moment we adopted the law on entrepreneurs, that is, in the same form of these laws exist today? If there are, why didn't we take care of it when we were streamlining the bill we had adopted? That's the first question. The second question - the explanation is full of terms such as "deregulation", "transparent" and so on, which is not only not in the spirit of Serbian language regulations, but was exploited to this extent to sound very phraseological and, I dare say, is corny. Furthermore, it explains: "Article 3. The bill is proposed to amend Article 11 of the current law," and then to say what is listed here. I'm asking again, taught by this previous experience, are we sure that we're all listed in Section 2 of that proposal, or maybe something new will come up, so we'll say, that's what happened, because it's in accordance with some law that already exists out there. So maybe we should have made an effort not to list this, but to say -- and that's regulated by some laws; to be consistent, to stick to some methodology in the proposal. Last time, I repeat, Article 11, it wasn't enough for us to explain what should be action, but at that time we said we needed Article 11a as well. We gave the Belgrade Assembly the opportunity to say something else. Now we've wiped it out. My next question -- were we quick to do it then, when we added that Article 11a, or are we admitting it now; or is it something else? I'd like to comment on some other arguments. So it's said to be in Article 9. The bill provides for points 2) and 3 to be deleted in Article 29), which is a price list and something else, so that I don't spend time on it now, and then I ask why we needed a price list before and why we needed to have an atom earlier that the vehicle was registered, etc.? Is it later knowledge, surface, and perhaps too late in her mind? I also warn that it is said in articles of 17. - 21. The harmonisation of criminal provisions with the proposed amendments and additions to the material provisions of the law has been carried out, so it is proposed that fines and prisons for violations of the same article, instead of cumulatively, be prescribed alternatively. This, I stress, is in accordance with the Law on Infringements and gives opportunity to the authority that conducts the infringement procedure to impose a penalty on the severity of the offence, i.e. to impose a prison sentence solely on infringements that have caused serious consequences. My next question - does this argument mean that the original proposal, which we adopted here in this assembly, was not in line with the Law of Infraction, and if it was, then who was to blame for not taking care of it at the time, but for adopting something that we were then and at that point were suggested? The following question concerns the part in which it is said: "The change in the amount of fines has been proposed under the law amending the law, which provides for fines for violations (omnibus law), with the level of fines in all republican laws in line with the amount of fines provided for in the draft law on violations and magistrates for violations, which is in the assembly procedure". So, my question is very simple - are these newspapers in the law of anti-cipatative, i.e. whether they prejudge what we need to adopt, because we have not spoken about it as MPs, or perhaps we are certain that we will definitely adopt it as an MP, so it doesn't matter what is first and what else, whether we should wear a sock and a shoe first or vice versa. In my opinion, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs represents, in my opinion, an attempt by the Proposer to avoid responsibility for the surface, the hasty and intricacies in stimulating the original proposal. This is not the first time, gentlemen, that MPs, for political points, are subject to marketing proposals that are said to be reform and epochal, and in essence, these proposals represent unfinished documents, placed to meet the deadline, fulfil form or obligation, and then, under incoherent excuses, complete and complete such documents. Gentlemen, stop disrespecting us, stop thinking we're trying rabbits. I ask you to respect the institution of the Assembly and the institution of the Members of Parliament. Don't throw unfinished dust into the eyes of the public; instead of cosmetics, concentrate, gentlemen. Please concentrate that you finally give us a serious and valid document, and until then withdraw what you have given and show at least once a little co-operation and self-critics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22302	The People's Messenger, Bogoljub Zečević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Private Entrepreneurs. As the most important thing, I set aside the possibility of opening up business facilities, without leaving the inspection, and that the criteria prescribed by the Inspection Act are established in the course of regular controls. In the view of the Democratic Party MPs, this is in line with the DOS and Serbian government's pre-election promises to encourage the development of private entrepreneurship in Serbia. I want to say what problems private entrepreneurs faced when opening their business facilities. First, the level of the tax to open the facilities was between 12 and 15 thousand dinars, depending on the type of facility, i.e. inspections that should have come out and taxis that were valid for the exit of inspections. Secondly, it was very difficult to provide all inspections to go to a business facility; it lasted days and weeks, which slowed the opening of the store. And thirdly, there was a bureaucratic atmosphere, which created fear among potential private entrepreneurs and prevented them from opening their business facilities. I would also like to comment on the work of inspection authorities who, instead of doing their regular jobs for which they were established, were obliged to go out on the ground and open new facilities for private entrepreneurs. What we're going to get with these changes and the additions to the law -- first of all, people who work in failed and social enterprises on exhale, and have knowledge and skill -- these benefits get a chance to go into a business of their own, and by doing so, they collect their knowledge. In addition, people who, not by their own fault but by the policy of the previous regime, were forced to deal with the gray economy will be able to legalise their own activity, thus making it a state, and, I am confident, private entrepreneurs themselves who legalise their work. On this occasion, I would also like to say two general things about which there is a lot of misunderstanding in public. First of all, the state doesn't have to provide anyone with a job. The state is obliged to create conditions for job creation, and every man should fight to secure his job for himself. Secondly, we agree that for the general social development of our country, the development of private entrepreneurship is very important, and it is also known that in Serbia and the world, 7-10% of people are ready to enter private business, i.e. it has a entrepreneurial spirit. So we have people who are capable, smart, professional in their business, honest, but simply don't have that entrepreneurial spirit to go on their own in their business. I believe that these few people, which means 7-10%, should be encouraged in every way to go into a business of their own, helping themselves, both the state and the people. Compared to this law, the minister has already pointed out, a company law will be passed in the Federal Assembly, which will cheapen and simplify the opening of companies. Speaking of the Federal Assembly, I'd like to ask a question -- why is this law and a large number of other laws and passed in the Federal Assembly, when that state and that assembly are hardly deciding in this country at all? It seems only that it serves Montenegrin communists, that they have a place to stay, because they are not in power in Montenegro and cannot live from collecting income from the citizens of Montenegro, but have come to be in power in Yugoslavia and to live on the burden of Serbian citizens. But I hope this situation doesn't last long either. In the end, I would like to say that MPs of the Democratic Party will vote to amend and supplement this law. This is another good law that will further bring Serbia closer to European integration and bring it to the level of European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22304	Thank you. The word is Vlatko Sekulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22305	Madam President, respected colleagues and colleagues, before I start with what I wanted to say, only one introductory note - the Committee for Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, which is the parent committee for this law, has unanimously adopted the bill when considering this legal project. I must point out, since certain Polish tones have been heard in relation to this law, that the decision involved the Members of the Social Democratic Party, the Democratic Party and the SPS, and he had the undivided support of all parties represented by the Committee. I think we should, however, stick to these frameworks during the debate. As far as the law itself is concerned, I must appeal to you that we have in mind that it is a law that regulates the business of about 200,000 of the shops that exist in this country. If we make a simple calculation, we will conclude that this law provides a source of income for an 800,000 citizens of our country. So it's a very important act of law, especially from the point of view of us Social Democrats. If we have in mind the unemployment rate today in the country, or the number of unemployed moving around around 1,300,000, any government activity on this issue and on similar issues, such as the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises, deserves absolutely our attention. In this regard, this law may lead to a termological confusion. Namely, this law was once called (until 1995, if I am not mistaken) a law on personal work. It is now called the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, often in public, and even in experts, there are certain confusions caused by terminology. It may be worth considering in a further discussion of this law or, possibly, the adoption of a new one, which has been announced to us on the Committee itself, a term that might be more appropriate to a substance that it regulates; whether or not a law on craftsmen, or a similar name that could be used, so as not to create a confusion with the Company Act that does not regulate this matter. I think it is already highlighted in the discussion that the primary importance of this law is further liberalisation, i.e. a more free approach to the market for people who want to start a certain economic activity to provide means of existence. That's exactly what we see in the main role of the state. We don't view the state as an apparatus that needs to operate the economy, but as an apparatus that needs to create one, which is better, miles to carry out economic activity. This law has only set us in one of these segments, and it is about simplifying procedures, shortening deadlines, simplifying procedures for shutting down operations, etc., which is, of course, all about praise and what should be supported. However, there are various other segments in which the government should be more active. One of those segments is, of course, financial support. There's been a lot of talk about a guarantee fund. The guarantee fund is actually conceived as an institution that needs to help businesses, businesses, entrepreneurs reach financial resources. However, the guarantee fund itself will not be that financial funder, but the businessmen will then have to go to some of the financial institutions to get certain loans. I want to show you that we don't have something in our country that exists in some other countries, which is a development bank. We have a similar institution -- the Development Fund, which gives loans and certain loans to businesses and businesses. We believe that the possible formation of a bank for development would be perhaps more appropriate to the role that the institution should play and that this would create a more efficient system to encourage the development of the economy in our country, and all in order to create as many jobs as possible. However, even if we analyse the work of these financial institutions, such as the Development Fund or the Development Bank, those economic operators whose business, i.e. establishment and work are regulated by this law are not able to access such funds, for the simple reason that they or do not have guarantees that they can give or simply are not financial institutions that are created to meet their needs. For example, because it's a loan, which would eventually take an entrepreneur who owns a store, too small for a bank. In this direction they have been thinking in the world and have long since come to the conclusion that microcredit organisations represent the form that can rightly help to develop entrepreneurship, or to develop actions. To note (that we are not going far into some countries): only in Bosnia and Herzegovina or Montenegro there are laws that regulate the existence of microcredit organisations, meaning financial institutions that lend loans to certain small amounts, up to 10,000 euros or 5,000 euros, which entrepreneurs then withdraw and use to finance their work. In such situations, special guarantees are not required. The conditions of obtaining such loans are much more flexible because, simply, such financial organisations are thinking about the large number of loans they give, and they don't go so far as the amount of loans they give. I think our authorities might also be thinking in this direction about creating frameworks that would further allow actions to reach certain financial resources to develop their work. What is also important for the business itself, but also for the business of small and medium-sized enterprises, that is, to some extent, the market, or market security. Soon another legal project will be in front of us. It's a law on public procurement. We will, undeniably, support the Tailaw Project as we have supported this one, but I would point only to the next one. We have the impression that our government is being underprotectionist, if at all protectionist towards our economy. We believe that our businesses and businesses are in such a situation that they cannot fight competition from abroad in the best way at this point. We think, however, that the government should consider protecting domestic businesses, regardless of what pressures it has suffered from international organisations, especially financial organisations, because there are examples in other countries that have passed this time, such as Hungary, Poland, that these countries have adopted certain legal acts containing protectionist measures, but this was not an obstacle to their integration, for example. in the World Trade Organisation, etc. Therefore, I think that, in that direction, the government would still need a little more attention to do so. And that segment, which is also significant, in addition to financial support, in addition to simplifying the process of establishing actions, providing the market, or protecting the market, is also a certain tax charge. We talked about it today. I sincerely hope that this law, which will literally end the tax on financial transactions, will be passed, but it is certain that further thinking could be carried out, related to these tax exemptions, especially when a domestic businessman or a business operator wants to start working with a foreign partner. At this point, we don't have explicit legal reliefs that we can attract a foreign partner. Our tax reliefs are most defined by tax loans, which is a relatively vague mechanism for a foreign partner to be drawn to this territory. And, come on, we have to bear in mind that other countries in the environment predict a tax charge based on foreign investment, so just on that basis, not counting on investment or the creation of new jobs. So whether we want it or not, we still have to go that way. In the end, I would just like to welcome this initiative by the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. It seems to me, which is understandable, that this ministry during the previous period was particularly dedicated to the issue of privatisation. I hope, since the process has yet started, that the next period will be much more focused on this topic and on small and medium-sized enterprises, because we, as SDP, are convinced that privatisation itself cannot be the only way to solve the accumulated social problems, especially in the economy, and especially when it comes to the creation of new jobs, we already believe that small and medium-sized enterprises should be one of the mechanisms for solving this problem. I would like to take the opportunity to say that the Development Committee has supported a document called the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Plan, i.e. Entrepreneurship. This is what we wanted to make our contribution in terms of creating a more favourable environment for the functioning of our economy, i.e. for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, of course without any intention to interfere with the authorities' responsibilities, we already believe that, if there are more alternative solutions, we will certainly come up with a better solution that we offer to our public and provide better and more efficient business for our businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22306	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used that right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The amendment was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The amendment was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. Presidents of parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The amendment was accepted by the Government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, I ask if the word "proposer representative", Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic, Minister of Industry and Privatisation, wants to hear it. No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The voting day will be notified at the end of the session. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision with a supplement tabled by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: together Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic, on behalf of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group and Dr Zarko Obradovic, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I'm asking MPs' groups if they haven't already done so to hand over the application lists for the word of the MPs. You will be presented with an amendment by the SPS parliamentary group. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. I ask if the speaker, president of the DOS parliamentary group Cedomir Jovanovic, wants the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22307	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I would like to express a positive position on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposal to form a committee on Kosovo and Metohija and to form a privatisation committee. I think it's about time these two committees formed and started working. Primaryly, this refers to the Kosovo and Metohija committee because I think the National Assembly should have that committee. This has been agreed before, it was also said about today's session, that is, this decision that the Assembly will surely adopt will be a good step in the direction that the Assembly, through its committee, will be fully aware of all that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. I must say this also because the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a question of part of Serbia's territory; it is not a question of one parliamentary group, it is not a question of one political party, it is a question of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the largest legislative body, has absolutely the need to be fully aware of everything that is happening. I must say, as you know, that we as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have already discussed the situation in Kosovo and Metohija twice in May of last year; that on 4 May we have adopted a resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and 31 May of the Declaration on the State of Kosovo and Metohija, on the obligations of the international community and on the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Under the circumstances, we Socialists were initiators to put this issue on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we did not then come to an understanding. In any case, it's good that the board is formed, so that we can see what the herd is in the current state. I think that the board should start working as soon as possible and provide answers to a few of the questions that we asked as the National Assembly last year, which, in the meantime, won on their actuality. We need to see what the situation is about the issue of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. Remember, in May of last year, we came to a conclusion as the National Assembly that terrorism has entered an even more radical stage, and as the National Assembly, I think we should get an answer to what the current situation is. Then, it was said that they would be asked by the international community to resolve the issue, i.e. to clarify the fate of kidnapped and exiled persons. I think the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should also offer an adequate response; then clarify the fate of 1,300 abducted and missing Serbs and members of other non-Albanian communities living in Kosovo and Metohija. I think it is important to hear on the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and what the UN has done specifically on the comprehensive application of Resolution 1244 and ensuring the equality of life of all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. I think we need to hear on the board and what's been done in relation to UN Resolution 1244 and especially what's been done in the area of Resolution where it's all about the complete demilitarisation of paramilitary formations, as well as the establishment of security environments where exiled faces can return to their homes. We, as the National Assembly, have also expressed some views on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and I think the committee should also answer these questions adequately. In particular, the committee should offer its own court and meet the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia what the UN civilian and military authorities have done to implement the return programme of all exiled and refugees; what has been done in the implementation of this programme and whether the conditions for the safe life of all citizens and the full application of Resolution 1244 have been created. I think we should give the answers to all these questions. Remember, I will remind fellow Members of the People's Parliament that it was said in the Declaration on 31 May that the government of the Republic of Serbia would also lead a policy to strengthen Kosovo and Metohija's ties with other parts of Serbia, in order to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the SRJ, in line with the said resolution. I think that, as a Parliament, we should get an adequate response to this request from the National Assembly, to see what the state of Serbia has done in the fields of education, health, traffic, trade, finance, culture and state administration. So, in all those areas that we've counted as the National Assembly in the past month. I think we should also answer the question of what the fate of the SRJ Agreement on the status of UNMIK and KFOR mission in Kosovo and Metohija is.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22308	Mr. Obradic, please return to the agenda. Don't talk about the work of the board. You can hold a press conference, every MP has a right, and here you need to talk about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22309	I think the National Assembly can form a committee, which will form when this decision is voted upon, to get an answer to all these questions, because it should get and this assembly deserves it. I don't know if everyone will be happy with the answers, but that's another question. As for the personal composition of this committee, we Socialists have proposed two people, MPs: Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Ljubis Maravic and MP Sreten Mitrovica. Mr. Maravic lives in Kosovo Mitrovica, and Mr. Mitrovica lives in Caglavica near Pristina. We have also proposed them for these reasons, because they live downstairs and know best all the problems that people living in Kosovo and Metohija face daily and we think they will be able to make an absolutely adequate contribution to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be detailed about everything and to do what is set up. The Committee must assess what the situation is, but also set certain requirements for the executive authority. I hope that what the Committee does, demands and views, is already a matter of the committee in which it will set certain things up, will not experience the fate of the views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the behaviour of the government, because it has been happening over the past year that the views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been changed several times, disabling, or that the government has completely autonomously led politics in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. I think that on all these issues, the Committee of the National Assembly of Serbia can give adequate answers, and we, as the National Assembly, can be acquainted with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22310	Does one of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Petar Petrovic, a member of the SS, and it is the only registered speaker on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22311	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Unity Party was forced to fill the committees in this way, as it proposed to this National Assembly on 11 April and 22 March this year to replace the members of the committee, to which it has the right as a parliamentary group. These are the MPs who have suspended the mandate of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Instead, other MPs were elected in front of the parliamentary club, i.e. the list of Soviets, and until today, we have not been put on the agenda, so we had to propose to the amendment that we accept our proposals to officially resolve these MPs and to their place to come from other MPs to whom the mandate has been confirmed and who have been working for months in this assembly. As far as these two committees, the Privatisation Committee and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, we welcome that it is finally time to elect members of these two committees. First, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, that the committee would be informed by the government and other competent organisations that work and operate in Kosovo and Metohija, about everything they do for the benefit of the Serbian people and the return of the exiled Serbian people from Kosovo and Metohija; to inform the committee, and thus to inform this assembly, or MPs of this assembly; so we could know what is going on in Kosovo, what decisions are made, what is the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, because we must acknowledge that the MPs of this assembly are in much of the right notices and reports of all these developments related to Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the Privatisation Committee is concerned, it has already started largely and some factories in Serbia have already been sold; tenders have been made for many other factories; the government is doing so, and the Serbian Parliament has so far not had a report on it, and we hope that through the Privatisation Committee, the government and other authorities, the agencies, will report this committee, and thus the Serbian Assembly. I ask the parliamentary majority and the proposings of this proposal to accept these amendments, thus fulfilling the legal obligation and that the parties to Serbian Unity belong to those positions on the committees they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-19-0.u22312	Since there are no more entries on the lists, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a single search of the motion for a decision, does the Proposer want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on amendments submitted to the draft decision in the voting day. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic together submitted on behalf of the SSJ parliamentary group. At 2nd, MPs Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic submitted the amendment together. Does the promoter accept these amendments? Sustained. These amendments shall become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. At point 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Zarko Obradovic on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group; and at point 2 he also submitted. I ask the promoter if he accepts this amendment? He doesn't accept. So that's what we're going to vote on. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, set Thursday, June 20th, 2002, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly, starting at 10:30. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 140 MPs and I ask you to insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending, the following MPs: Vlasimir Budimović, Jelena Milenkovic-Orlić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Toma Busetic, Ljubomir Mucic, Milos Nesović, Miomir Tadic, Ratimir Svirčević, Zarko Obradović, Momir Radoic, Slobodan Radulović and Milorad Jakšić. The delays were announced by the MPs: Joca Arsic, Milan Stankovic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Dragan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Đura Lazic, Sreten Mitrovic and Rajko Baralic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the People's Movement "Resist" and representatives of the National Democratic Institute to this session. I am taking the opportunity to thank you for helping the National Democratic Institute, which it has given us to develop parliamentaryism. I welcome the guests present. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all items of the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session and decided on the 1st item of the agenda, the election of a number of government members according to the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, according to Article 140. Rules of Procedure, we move to deciding on other points of the agenda, in principle, details and generality. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - The proposal of the President of the Republic of Serbia for the election of the President and Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, after the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Serbia for the election of the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, before we move to the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 174. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on the election of the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court, decides individually, by a secret vote, unless it decides to make the vote public. I propose that the National Assembly make the choice of President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia through a public vote - using an electronic voting system. I am putting on the motion that the election of the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia be made by a public vote, using an electronic voting system. For 122, against 35, a abstentioned one, was not voted by two, a total of 160 MPs present. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia will be held by public vote - using an electronic voting system, I remind you that, according to Article 115, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the candidate has been elected if more than half of the members of parliament have voted for him. Before we go to the vote, I also remind you that the National Assembly is deciding on each candidate's choice individually. We're going to vote. 1. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Slobodan Vučetic, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, as President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. For 119, against 12, abstentioned 24, four of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Slobodan Vučetic as President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. 2. I am voting on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Mirjana Rasic, a lawyer from Belgrade, as judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. [[Applause]] For 122, against one, abstention 22, was not voted by 12, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mirjana Rasic as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. (Read Mary, instead of Mirjana, due to the error in the reminder, which is at the end of the point, with an apology, corrected. ) 3. I am voting on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr. Srdjan Djordjevic, professor of the Faculty of Law in Pristina, as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. For 115, against one, abstentioned 27, was not voted 17, a total of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Srdjan Djordjevic as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. 4. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Branko Curcia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia adviser as the judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. For 121, no one, abstentioned 24, voted 13, a total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Branko Turkey as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. 5. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr Bosa Nenadic, an associate of the Institute for Comparative Law as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. For 122, against the Nikok, abstention 21, 15, a total of 158 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Bosa Nenadic as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Six. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr Milutin Đuricic as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. For 122, against one, with 22 abstentions, did not vote 15, a total of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Milutin Đuricic as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Seven. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Mr Svetozar Ciplic, a member of the New Sad Assembly Executive Board, as the judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. For 117, no one, abstentioned 23, voted 18, a total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mr Svetozar Chiplic as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected President and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. [[Applause]] THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, in principle. For 118, against 31, the abstentions were not voted 13 out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, in general. For 126, against 33, the abstentions were not voted by three, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Financial Transactions Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, in principle. For 126, against 31, the abstentions were not voted by three, out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during a joint principled search, amendments to Article 3 were withdrawn by MP Milos Radivojčević and that during the search of the Bills in particular, amendments to Article 3 were withdrawn by MP Gvosden Jovanovic. National MP Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 125, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, a representative of the Government accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 126, against 30, the abstentions were not voted by two, of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment from the Finance Committee. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act as a whole. For 128, against 30, there were no abstentions, there were no non-voting ones, of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial transaction Tax Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Private Entrepreneurs Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, in principle. For 128, against nine, with 19 abstentions, two of the 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the Bills, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become the amendment of the People's MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic to Articles 1, 6 and 9. It's a bill of law. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 123, the abstention one, did not vote four, out of a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, in general. For 126, against 10, with 20 abstentions, two of the 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Private Entrepreneurs. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I remind you that an integral part of the proposal for a decision has become amendments to Part I and II, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. In part and the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dr. Zarko Obradovic. The promoter did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 115, abstentions 7, did not vote 8 out of 159 MPs. I find that the assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part II of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dr Zarko Obradovic. The promoter did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 115, abstentions 7, did not vote 8 out of 157 MPs. I find that the assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have concluded our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the addition of the proposal as a whole. For 124, against one, there were two abstentions, not 30 votes, out of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the addition of the proposal. Before I close the session, in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I schedule a constitutional session of the Privatisation Committee, starting at 12.00 hours. Having considered all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. Goodbye.
