ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the debate on amendments to this law, the chairman violated members 144 and 145. Article 144 states: “The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government, is obliged to consider, before the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments submitted under the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. "And Article 145 says, "In the course of the review of the bill, the legislator, the competent committees, or the Government, can submit the draft legislation in writing, but only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment." None of these things have happened, so we can do this. Yesterday, the chairman told us that she would receive something in writing during the day, so she did not distribute it to us throughout the day and proved that she had received something in writing from the Vojvodina Assembly. On the other hand, we hear different interpretations in public from the promoters whether they are satisfied or not, whether or not the Vojvodina Assembly will be held. Here and explain why you have brought the congregation into this situation, that it is doing something that is not needed and that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17020	Mr Guduric, according to your remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 144 and 145, the National Assembly has already decided. So that's over. I promised you'd get a notice in writing, and you'll get the original today. (Stevan G. Gudurić: Yesterday we had all day at our disposal. ) You also have in the bill that the authorised representatives of the promoters are Mr Nenad Canak and Mr Predrag Filipov. These are the authorized representatives of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. You can't get into whether they're authorized or not. They're authorized by the institution, and you can't doubt the institution. Tomorrow when I go as an authorised representative on behalf of the Assembly, you take the risk that I will do something on behalf of the Assembly or not. (Tomislav Nikolic: The risk is huge. I said you'd get the original notice, and you'll get it. Are you satisfied? No, I don't. I'll put it to the vote. (Stevan G. Guduric: I'm not for that. For 39, against 74, abstention 17, he did not vote 51, out of 181 ambassadors. I find that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment to Article 36 want a word? There's a word from MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17021	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, respected listeners, we have submitted an amendment to Article 36. A bill aimed at separating Serbia's Elektroprivreda into the province and the rest of Serbia. We think it can't be allowed, because we'd have two systems. The question is -- which would be the price of electricity in Vojvodina, which in the rest of Serbia, since Vojvodina has no coal and that electricity production in Vojvodina would cost twice as much as in the rest of the Republic of Serbia. For another reason, I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment. The Serbian government has taken a position (of course, not according to my amendment, because I am an opposition MP) elsewhere, on a second amendment that has the same consequences and the same objective, because the Law on Electro-Employment is being established by the EPS and, in order to ensure uniform technical and economic systems in this area, cannot be allowed to split the EPS. I'd like to ask my colleague, Naumov, who's a functioner and he's in position in the electricity industry, and otherwise he's from Vojvodina, to give us an opinion on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17022	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The People's Messenger is looking for a replica. MP Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17023	Thank you. EPS is not a popular topic these days, obviously. The objectively observed, employees naturally burn in that EPS so that today we have electricity and probably don't deserve that treatment. The EPS is a unique technological and economic system. However, through this amendment, I see no separation, but only the confidence of administrative oversight in the EPS area, which means control, supervision, or implementation of a law that is still unique to all Serbia. It's, of course, the Law on Electricity and it's unique. It's one company, and I hope it stays that way. On the other hand, surveillance in the inspection domain is entrusted. It is now something that may be disputable, whether at all necessary ( since we are ahead of the reform of the electricity system, of all energy, of restructuring of the new energy law - and all of this should be very soon) and purposefully bring that member or that attitude to transfer certain powers to the province level. So, for now, in my opinion, it's not the EPS tearing, it's just one part, but it's a question of whether it's realistic right now and whether it's necessary at all, when I say we're just coming into the serious restructuring business phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17024	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Does the applicant for the amendment, MP Slobodan Tomovic, want a word? No, I don't. You appear as an authorised representative of the SPS. The word is Steven G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Slobodan Tomovic, an MP for the SPS parliamentary group, has suggested that Article 36 be deleted because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow administrative oversight to be entrusted, as this is why the republic's authorities counter-constitutionally deprive themselves of responsibility for the enforcement of laws and other regulations. Also, the system of functioning and organisation of work in the EPS by its nature is unique and indivisible. There wouldn't be anything special to add, and you'll vote again that's best. The responsibility for such a single vote will be on you, on the proposer and on all those who have made one of the laws a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17026	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 53, against 103 abstentions 31, eight of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36 for three basic reasons. The reason first is that certain MPs of the DOS, realizing that I can't do everything, try to convince all absurdity and all the senselessness of this member and the law in general. The second reason is that the same MPs, if there is any possibility, I can convince this member and the whole law, if it is already absurd and pointless, and unconstitutional. The third reason is that if there are any other DOS MPs left, I can convince him and call him to reason that by voting for the amendment he really shows that this member and the whole law is anti-constitutional, absurd and pointless. I will try to explain the first reason, which is the absurdity and absurdity of this member, and therefore, the full adoption of the amendment to that member and to the whole law. I asked the amendment to delete Article 36 of Section 2. The explanation is very brief and I believe that it is understandable to everyone, and it is said - the amendment is proposed because it is about jobs that cannot, I repeat, cannot be trusted in an autonomous province because of its importance. Where does the absurdity and absurdity of this member and the whole of the law appear? First, this member is being torn apart by Serbia's single electricity system. We all know that if the state of Serbia was known for its uniqueness, it was within the framework of the PTT, the ZTP and the EPS. This begins to create separation, we begin to work to separate Vojvodina from Serbia, the secession of Serbia, by tearing apart the single EPS system. You all know, and that's what Naumov's colleague said, thank you for saying that, in a technological and technical sense, the EPS system is indivisible and unique. What do we get with this article? We trust them to do something they're not even able to do. We believe, but we're actually creating a new center of power. We have Belgrade as the centre of the Republic, and now we will have Novi Sad which is the center of the province, in the first phase, and later the republic and possibly the separate state, as the final phase. How much is that gonna cost the citizens? Do any of you think that Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic will give up taxis and taxes that are unique in Serbia? There is a budget for the province probably separates one piece, and will that part satisfy the province and the province's oligarchy that are now slowly being created? He won't. Who's gonna pay for that? The people of Vojvodina, though harming the people of Vojvodina, will be shown in the next election. What else is pointless? You're saying we're going to Europe, and Europe has certain standards related to decentralisation and regionalisation. Decentralisation is if the state entrusted local self-government with certain tasks and certain competences. The creation of new power centres in Novi Sad is not decentralisation, but a new impose on citizens of Serbia. For another reason, it's the unconstitutional nature of this member. In principle, I was saying, I mentioned the members of 72th and 119th that the state of Serbia is unique, that it is the state of Serbia that cannot trust someone with jurisdiction under the Constitution. This is Vojvodina from one side of the kidnapping, and you, MPs from Serbia, are allowing it, so you create preconditions for separation. What's the third reason I'm trying to call you to reason, not to participate as MPs in that, to tear up the Vojvodina from a single Serbia. The reason lies is that for a long time, and that's probably familiar to all of you, in Vojvodina, he's thinking about the thermocentral, in fact, nuclear power plant. The location is somewhere around Backa Topola near Mladenova, in the Danube. What does that mean? By creating a new EPS, EPS Vojvodina, and you know that Vojvodina has no coal, it will not be possible to use coal as a product from which electricity is to be generated; we have in Novi Sad a power plant that consumes oil, gasses. She's using the power to produce electricity. On the other hand, that thermocenter is also the heat for Novi Sad. It may satisfy the needs of the town of Novi Sad and a little wider environment, but it does not produce electricity even for the entire Southbian region. Where is Vojvodina going to produce that electricity? By thinking, which is what Žika Berisavljevic is doing with foreign organizations and that Vojvodina.....
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17028	Mr. Vujic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17029	I'm finishing up... your special independent center. What does that mean? Will Zika Berisavljevic, Bosko Krunic and the small bombers soon go to destroy the power lines towards Serbia? How many citizens will pay for the electricity...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17030	Mr. Vujic, you've exceeded your time and you're not sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17031	Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17032	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this work on passing laws on determining the jurisdiction of the autonomous province resembles that of the people - the livers were fighting over the mother-in-law. Obviously, there are many different, conflicting interests in DOS, DOS in Vojvodina, DOS in Serbia; and now all of us here, and the entire Serbian public, suffer, expecting results, will end in the end and end this conflict that you entered as if someone had pushed you into, as if you were running away from a great deal of trouble, so you ran into a conflict that Serbia without a consequence could hardly come out of. What are we trying to prevent with this amendment? In the late 1960s, we built a dam in Potpeqa on Lima, which now produces electricity on the Lima lake, at the end of the Lima lake. For the locals who attended the opening of the works, nothing was clear, we put huge concrete blocks in Lim for days, and they thought what these people were doing, whatever they put in the water, the water carried away, until one day the first concrete block appeared on the surface of the water. Then we rejoiced, for us the river had already been crossed. That's what you're doing now with this bill. In these 70 and some of the members you put dice in the mud, in the mud that's called DOS relations or DOS relations between Vojvodina and DOS of Serbia, and from that mud one day, and we see, we don't want to participate, there will be a dam that will divide Vojvodina from the rest of Serbia. There's only one thing you don't consider - what's done to the mud, it's very easy to disappear. Don't lift this dam on such unsolicited foundations. Honestly, from the heart, reason, except for 15 or 20 MPs in this room, none of you are in favor of this solution. No one, and I don't know how you justify your children and your parents what you're doing. Apparently, every member of the law is insignificant. From now on, Vojvodina itself, what if it doesn't do this, it's going to do this, it's going to do this, it's going to take over one state function, and where does it come from, where does it come from? The state structure is here in front of your eyes, forming slowly in all areas. One day it will be really stupid - and why wouldn't Vojvodina be a republic when it has all the republican organs? One day it will be stupid - and why not have a state when it has all the organs and it has the territory. Stop it, see how it goes sloppyly. And today, if it wasn't for double cards, you'd never have a quorum. And who knows how many days this is gonna take...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17034	Mr. Nikolic, take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17035	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17036	I say you take care of what you say, you have two warnings. I ask you not to insult the National Assembly and the People's Messengers and to question their conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17037	What I doubt, when it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17038	You weren't even in the O.R. when the quorum was being determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17039	.... works every day. What do I doubt when dealing with double-cards every day, what do I doubt? Well, has it been proven that people use double cards?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17040	Mr. Nikolic, you re-insult the National Assembly and the People's MPs with such statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17041	I don't insult anyone, I'll prove to you, every time, I've taken out your list a thousand times here; even Ceda Jovanovic voted once when he wasn't in the O.R., and Kasa Jozef voted all the time, and he's never been in the O.R. You're telling me now that I'm insulting, and you're not catching vermin in damage?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17042	Mr. Nikolic, get back on the subject and I warn you you have no right to insult anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17043	Here, I'm finishing the amendment debate, so I don't irritate you so much. I guess I should turn around, not turn my back on you, I don't know what's annoying about you when I turn my back on you? You never throw it at me when we look face to face, only when I turn my back on you. I'm finishing up, I'm asking you a lot, please include your mind in all of this, including our history and our future, and stop this job, it's not going to take us anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17044	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 51, against 92, with 28 abstentions, 19 of the 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Pomorski. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 11, against 129 abstention 28, he did not vote 21, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric to Article 37. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the amendment to Article 37, I have suggested that point 2 be deleted in point 2. (it is the exercise of administrative supervision), with the reason that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow administrative oversight to be entrusted, as this is why the republican authorities counter-constitutionally deprive themselves of responsibility for the enforcement of laws and other regulations. These few days, as the story of administrative oversight continues, it resembles what we did last year, in the first half, when we talked about the principles of gross-net, so it took a few laws to pass and to draft several ministers to finally get along; we also had grotesque situations for Mr. Milovanovic and Mr. Jovanovic to come out after each other and talk differently about how gross-net looks and only somehow manages to show up Mrs. Matkovic and to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17046	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17047	First warn Milka not to throw it at me, then bring me back on the subject. That's the order you should be working on, if you stick to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it is very simple, to stick to what is written in the Rules of Procedure, according to all alike, no matter what color the uniforms wear, ma'am. So it was very simple to end this, only you agreed in advance on how to force it. And just one more thing, with these amendments, I don't understand -- those who have proposed amendments and advocated some things through this law, it seems to them too, "eat a cat's tongue," so they can't say why they're looking for something, to explain what they want. They're full of pictures and stories. It's the only place they don't seem to know how to say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17048	Mr. Guduric, for the last time I warn you to return to the agenda, that is your amendment to article 37 relating to the distribution, transport and use of natural gas. Please bring your discussion into contact with this, on the basis of Article 138(2). You must stick to the law and your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17049	Okay, when you're done, let me get on with it. So it's about doing administrative surveillance, which you'll insist on, through all the members, trusting someone you can't trust, and maybe through a few laws, then when there's a story here, someone will finally figure out what it is to do administrative surveillance and who can do it, so it'll be fate as well as the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17050	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 87, 20 abstentions, were not voted 28 out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17051	Please provide us with a computer copy of this vote, based on Article 116 of Title 6, from this vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17052	I ask the service to submit a list to the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 37th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37, which reads: "Autonomic province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the area of transport, distribution and use of natural gas: 1) educates the Commission to pass expert examinations of candidates from the territory of the Autonomous Province; 2) it is carrying out administrative supervision. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. This member is being treated as a "This Article 37.St. 1st point 1.) It's wiped out. Article 2 is also deleted. Gentlemen, before I start talking about the amendment, I'm going to try to paint the situation in the Assembly without getting away from the topic so I don't get a warning. There are discussions here, both in principle and in particular, and they show two concepts: the concept of decentralisation and the concept of centralised. Both concepts were present in Serbian history, and the results of their actions are known to us. The first concept was created by the communist system, and the result of that formation was the creation of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, and the purpose of their creation was in fact the destruction of Serbia and the Serb being, that is, the path of secession. The second concept was created with the desire to preserve the Serbian state, to preserve the Serbian people, and also all citizens in it, with the concept of the civil state. Gentlemen, nobody minds developing faster and better, being richer, which is actually the result of his work, and what's most important is if he wants to help those who are poor -- it's the password of your democracy, and in fact it's the property of this country and this people. Don't let one pathological bill ruin the country. If we are willing to respect other nations and nationalities, I hope they will respect the Serbian nation as well. Explanation of this amendment - The Committee has rejected my amendment to Article 37, and I will try to confirm the importance of this amendment to vote for it. When the word professional exam is mentioned, it wants to increase both the responsibility and the expertise in these tasks, i.e. a narrow speciality, which is carried out to check the theoretical knowledge in the area. Special purpose work organisations, such as transport, distribution and use of natural gas, shall be subject to specialist tests at the level of inspection services and the Ministry of Energy and Mining. Also, there are internal specialist exams in companies, their character (which is also the name) is internal; they apply only to the territory of the company and the area for which a specialist exam is foreseen. Transport, distribution and use of natural gas in the Republic of Serbia has been entrusted to two working organisations, which are "NIS-Gas", based in Novi Sad and "Energogas", based in Belgrade, which is part of the NIS. Certain specialised groups and individuals are now controlling transport and natural gas use throughout Serbia's territory. Even certain NIS-Gas authorities from Novi Sad are entrusted throughout Serbia's territory, from the main water area, while substations and other secondary flows are entrusted to "Energogas". As you can see, the competences of both are intertwined, and also these specialist exams and surveillance must be common at the level of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, he wants to fool this parliament and citizens of Serbia about some jurisdiction of the province, which wants to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the work of certain services, which is actually a trick, because it wants independence in all vital areas. When you tell the truth about this speaker, you get a warning, you're supposed to insult someone. But, gentlemen, I am offended and humiliated by this Parliament and the ruling oligarchy, both as a citizen and as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17054	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article proves the absurdity of the entire bill, or at least the wish of the one who proposed this law. For the sake of the public, it must be read on which part of the law Serbian radicals have the objection. Article 37: "Autonomic province, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the transport, distribution and use of natural gas, educates the Commission to pass expert examinations of candidates from the territory of the autonomous province". One logical question immediately arises - will someone from the Curious be able to pass that test on the territory of an autonomous province? It won't be possible, because here you say - candidate from the territory of the autonomous province. Well, why are you breaking up this unique, sort of school system of ours? This is the school system, this is education. In order to carry out certain tasks (gas-related jobs are extremely professional), he has to pass certain expert exams. Now he who lives in the territory of the Vojvodina shall lay before the commission in the territory of the Vojvodina, and he who does not live in the territory of the Vojvodina shall not be able to lay before that commission. A further question arises - who will arrange the plan and the program of the exam? He who organizes the exam, which means "autonomous province." So, we will differ in the level of knowledge required for candidates who will do business in Serbia's territory, depending on whether that candidate lives in the territory of an autonomous province or not. The question remains: whether the candidate who passed the exam before the Autonomous Province Commission, the candidate who lives in Vrsac, will decide to move and go to Paracin, whether his certificate, diploma, or what you will call it, which he acquired before the Autonomous Province Commission. Is there going to be a nostration now? Well, to educate a special body also with the government of Serbia and the Executive Council of Vojvodina, which will nostifise issued testimonies or diplomas depending on whether it is on the territory of an autonomous province or on the territory of that part of Serbia that does not exist. So you're touching like a cancer into all the organs of the Republic of Serbia! You stick claws everywhere you think of something. In the Executive Council of the Duke, all of your so-called The ministries were ordered to search their fields for anything that could be taken, because, to God, Vojvodina is threatened because it is not done by the minister in Vojvodina but by the minister in Belgrade. And you're creating a brand-new apparatus, a huge bureaucratic apparatus. And you know the law about how bureaucracy is multiplied by geometric progression. You will now convince us that the rights of the citizens of Vojvodina are at stake because we propose to delete this member - that a special committee will be subject to an examination for the citizens of Vojvodina territory. Afterwards, in the next step, will you share both primary, secondary, higher and higher education? Will those diplomas apply? One day we'll get into a situation where someone will ask if these diplomas are going to be valid; then those who are looking for all this now will ask that their diplomas don't apply either. After all, the way you left that day isn't far at all, but we've been through it all over the past ten years. I understand those who rush into this bill. They were taught by the experience of those who in these 10 years had received what they were looking for and what was neither by the Constitution nor by law, but they had international help and they achieved it. I don't understand those who have suffered and suffered for the past 10 years because of what's been happening, what's been tearin' in front of their eyes, and they weren't powerful enough to stop it. Now what's stopping you from raising your hand and voting against it? Will there be bombings if this law is not passed? Will you lose your seat on the boards of directors? (President:Time. [[Sagar.]] Or will you not get promised seats on boards? Wait, guys, here on your television, I hear you have huge salaries on boards. [[Sagar.]] I didn't make that up. That's what your TV is reporting... Mr. Nikolic, time item. [[Sagar.]] The theme is what I'm getting out of the O.R., the right to tell you, I can't get out of my way without answering you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17056	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 52, against 95, abstention 21, 14 of the 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Pomorski. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 8, against 132 abstention 24, 19 of the 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Deretic and Zoran Novakovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17057	The esteemed presidency, respected colleagues, respected listeners, in Article 38, is indeed an eclad case of what is wanted to achieve by this law on the alleged return of autonomy to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. This is where an autonomous province is required to carry out professional examinations of candidates from the mining sector. There is no mine in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. What do they need it for? Only for one reason - to break the unique system of education in the Republic of Serbia. If they're looking for something they have in that province, it could be justified, that they need it for some reason, but what they don't need is what they don't have. Is this really about tearing up the state institutions and unity of the Republic of Serbia or is it about something else? Yes, it is about breaking up the Republic of Serbia and trying to create an independent state of Vojvodina. Gentlemen, colleagues from DOS, wake up. Do you really want something like that or not? If you don't want something like that, vote for this amendment. Put your conscience ahead of you. What's this about? Who's cheating on who here? Who's trying to trick who around here? What is this click that doesn't even have 2% of the voters in Vojvodina, who have come to us with a bill of this law. Why didn't they give the first election in Vojvodina, so if they get most of them, let them come with their suggestions. This is the Pussy Assembly in Vojvodina...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17058	Mr. Deretic, please take care of what you say and return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17059	You will be responsible before the people and before history for what you do. Don't think you'll avoid responsibility. We have a list, it's known, the call will be voted on, and it's clear who voted to break Serbia's state. Thank you very much. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17060	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 81, abstention 21, was not voted 38, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38. Article 38 of the original proposal reads: "Autonomic province via, its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the area of mining: 1) educates commissions to pass expert examinations of candidates from the territory of the Autonomous Province; 2) resolves on the requirements for granting authorisation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the execution of mining works; 3) performs administrative supervision. Jobs of Article 1 are done as trusted." My proposal under the amendment is to delete points 2) and (3) of Article 38 of the Law on the grounds that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow administrative oversight to be entrusted, as this makes the Republic's authorities constitutionally depriving responsibility for the enforcement of laws and other regulations and that mineral raw materials and mineral wealth in state property and as non-renewable resources are in the jurisdiction of the Republic. Why did I suggest this? It says - solves on the requirements for the authorisation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the execution of mining works. We have a practice that is short-term, which is that according to the Privatisation Act, cements are sold, and among other things cements in Vojvodina, which is called Bečinska cement factory. All cementers, including Beocinska, are a bunch of irons, buildings, halls, and chimneys, without exploiting the lasers and limestones. What position did you put someone who bought the Beocinian cement factory - that he bought from one state a factory, and the other one would have to negotiate concessions and exploitation of mineral raw materials. Or maybe you didn't inform anyone, not even in Vojvodina, that in the meantime and in that case, you made a deal, because it's absurd that this is what's written in the law, and that the government, who wrote the Privatisation Act, and souledly defended him here from all weapons, let something like this happen. Does this mean that we've deceived foreign investors into agreeing with one to buy something that's worthless without this other, because there's no cement store without exploiting the lagoons and cremes. The laporus is exploited in Beocino, and the limestone is exploited in Beshenovsky Prnjavor.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17062	Mr. Guduric, the subject of the agenda is not the Privatisation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17063	The topic of the agenda, ma'am, is mineral raw materials and mining works. The mining works are done, and if you don't know how to tell you, there are deep and surface spears. So it's very simple and I'm on the subject, so just follow the matter so there's no problem. Therefore, it is clear that some things here are not clear. Let's talk about administrative surveillance no more, that's what we've been talking about. I don't just know if those who bought cement before had a proposal to read this law, because they didn't communicate well, because at least your media said that -- that because of Canka, that cement store got a little money, but that would be a question. You said not to talk about the Privatization Act, so we won't. We'll talk some other time, there's time. So it's about the one who bought something getting into an absurd situation, because now what's the basis of these factories is being arranged somewhere else. I won't ask you to vote for my amendment, because you don't and I have no intention of asking you to do something you won't do, and on your conscience, if there is one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17064	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 87, with 19 abstentions, did not vote 25, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the public of Serbia at 11:42 was able to get the impression that I was rude, to insult the MPs, because by misusing my powers, I was approached by the President of the Natasa Micic National Assembly; but to prove all my claims and to convince you that this assembly is doing so thanks to the false cards, or cards used by MPs for those who are absent -- in the vote on the amendment, whose list I asked for at 11 hours 40 minutes and 29 seconds, Mr. Radinovic, president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, participated. He didn't come to the session at all, he wasn't even registered at the entrance to the hall, and today he's certainly not coming to the session, unless he's in Thessaloniki, so he's using the same transport that's already been used. Now I ask you, Mrs. Micic, to apologize to me; it will be a satisfaction for my efforts these days to do my job properly in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17066	Mr. Nikolic, we shall check with the service which has been declared; and secondly, you have offended all the messengers of the people. Even if someone, one, abused, you have no right to insult the other 249 MPs. Do you want me to put it to a vote? I am putting on the vote for an injury brought by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 72, against 66, abstentions 7, there were no 34 votes, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been violated. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17067	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let us stop this circus and degrade this assembly. It is necessary to determine whether the MP is here or not. If he's not here, then we need to see who he is and why he used the card instead of us voting whether someone's here or not. It's just that you can't vote on it. We're making a circus out of this congregation. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia do not want to participate in this way at all, to degrade the Assembly. Let's find out the fact, it's very easy to determine. If Mr. Vesenovic is there, he should go out for this pay phone and enter the O.R., and if he is not there, he should be determined that he is not here and that he can see who has abused the card. Don't let us degrade this congregation more than it has ever been downgraded.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17068	Mr. Michael, you didn't understand. We did not vote at all whether the MP was there or not, but we voted whether the injury was done and whether I offended Mr Nikolic because I drew his attention not to insult the MPs. I didn't put him to the vote whether he was an MP or not. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stevan G. Gudurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it appears that a permanent Thessaloniki-Belgrade line, the Serbian Parliament, has been opened in this assembly. You, ma'am, were obliged to apply Article 117 after what Mr Nikolic pointed out. Article 117 says, "The MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the hall. For a MP who uses the identification card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly proposes a move away from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was committed will be annulled and immediate identification and re-voting will be accessed. "So, when the said gentleman voted, you had to cancel and repeat that vote, take what is written in the Rules of Procedure, because when you always call behind our backs to the Rules of Procedure, so that we stick to something, you too, at least once, to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or stay away from that place, when you are not able.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17070	Of course, I'll always stick to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Guduric. National MP Radoslav Veselinovic did not vote on the amendment. So the card was left behind, he didn't vote. But it's possible, let's say, that the MP forgot his card. Whether I can check every time you take your cards, whether you want to play with your cards, whether you insert cards when you ask to secure the quorum. [[Sagar.]] We'll check through the service, and if it isn't, we'll establish abuse and apply Article 117. [[Sagar.]] But there's a possibility that he left the card after, he was this morning, so he left. You want me to put a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I am putting to the vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Ambassador Stevan G. Guduric. For 64, against 73, there were three abstentions, no 34 votes, of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been violated. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17071	We should not allow it to go this easily through scandals, and especially by misinformation from the public you have just done, Mrs. Micic. In fact, MP Radoslav Veselinovic did not sign up at all for coming. You have two lists to determine if anyone's here. The main one is that list where we log in on our way into the O.R. This second list is used for manipulation. That's when MPs carry the cards of their colleagues and thus provide you with a quorum. This time, he is an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia. You said it was possible for the MP to forget his card. First of all, he hasn't been here since this morning. That's very easy to determine. The second thing, I warn you, is that the MPs, under Article 118, are obliged to bring their MP cards on their way out of the O.R. But in Section 2, it says that the service is always obliged to collect the cards of those MPs who went out, and they forgot the cards in the benches. You've never approached that, because it would deprive yourself of the opportunity to run this session. That's how you provide the quorum, Mrs. Micic. Whatever you say now, this Mr. Radoslav Veselinovic, who is even president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, has not been in the hall since this morning and is participating in the quorum, has participated in all the votes. You say - he didn't vote, but on the screen it says - they didn't vote: seven, eight, nine, ten. According to you and they participate in the vote because there are many who did not vote even when we had a majority, when you stepped down the Rules of Procedure, most of them were not enough, because it counts that there are more deputies in the hall than there are. So I'm asking you not to deceive the public. We know this Rules of Procedure better than you do, and we understand it better than you do. You can abuse him and you can do it. As soon as you determine the injury, put it to a vote, but it can't go on forever. The public of Serbia sees what this is about. From this pay phone, I call upon you to step directly on your own Rules of Procedure. You butchered him like this so he doesn't look like anything anymore, and even this ruined Rules of Procedure you don't respect. An MP who's not here, for you, may have come out and forgot his card. You're not saying no one can forget the card. You're not saying he's shutting down from a session that uses someone else's card. You don't even say there's a repeat vote that's been found to have been misused. You always go over everything and think it'll swallow the public up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17072	Mr Nikolic, among MPs who have not voted, is MP Slobodan Janjic, too. (Free Janjic: I wasn't in the O.R. Was he in the O.R. or weren't you in the O.R.... Now you're in, because you have an amendment. I said we'd look into it during the break and give a notice. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17073	It's easy to prove whether someone's here or not. Article 38, I must, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for the sake of the public, read it in full: "Autonomic province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the field of mining: 1) educates the Commission to pass a professional examination of candidates from the territory of the Autonomous Province; 2) resolves on the requirements for granting authorisation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the execution of mining works; 3) performs administrative supervision. "The most dangerous thing is what is stated in Section 2: "The jobs of Article 1 are done as trusted." So, the Republic trusts to be examined on the territory of the Vojvodina. All those other rights to exploiting the mineral wealth permanently teaches in the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina. That right of the Republic can no longer return. The parliamentary majority of DOS and the Vojvodina Assembly, in violation of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (infringing it because we do not have a Constitutional Court, because you are not allowed to constituencies), are transposing some rights that do not belong to the province. Now you're complicated about it, you're going to break the constitution you're going to give permanent those rights to the Vojvodina. But the next day when you want those rights, if there is an abuse, the Republic will not be able to return, because that handful of autonomists will say, gentlemen, by the Constitution, you have no right to take those rights away from us. You will say to them, "Well, we have broken together." They'll say -- now we're not interested in it anymore. The Republic can never regain that authority. You deceive citizens of this kind, that something less important is that it's a trusted job, and what's decisive and what you give permanently can go on just like that. We Serbian radicals must show the citizens of Serbia that DOS and the Vojvodina Parliament are knowingly violating the Constitution of this state. I don't know if a representative of the DOS parliamentary group got sick, OD'd, something was split...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17074	Mr. Janjic, you have to mind what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17075	I think, when he's not here, he's got health problems. What did you think? You're the only one who knows. I take care of a young man, his health. Besides, you don't understand me, and the chairman won't protect me from throwing these away. I speak one specific dialect of the Serbian language, and you don't understand certain expressions. So if you want me to explain something to you, I'll do it. Here's how it is, if you've read Bora Stankovic, "Kostane" in Serbian literature...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17076	Mr. Janjic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17077	So I don't get a warning next time, and you listen well to me, because you'll benefit too.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17078	Mr. Janjic, for the last time, I warn you to speak beyond the subject of the agenda, you insult the MPs of the people, and I will give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17079	Who have I offended? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Boru Stankovic. ) Like this, I'll tell you, Madam Chairman: when someone in Serbia says - sings my brother under the window, you understand him. When we go down to Vranje, as Bora Stankovic and the Vranjanci say today, we say - eats my bat under a penger, and we say it quickly - eats the bat under a penger, you think it's an insult; and I say I speak with a specific accent of Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17080	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a second warning, based on an article. 102 and 103. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 71 abstentions, 12 did not vote 40, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17081	I ask you, Mrs. Micic, to concentrate a little. Now you've given me some other warning. At the pay phone was Slobodan Janjic. And you'll see by looking at the stenogram that you said - Mr. Nikolic, I give you a second warning. No, it's not my fault, and it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17082	Mr. Nikolic, I may have made a mistake. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17083	Let me remind you that I already have two warnings and that this...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17084	I gave the People's MP Slobodan Janjic a second warning, on the basis of Article. 102 and 103, and I said the name of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. I'm sorry if I did that. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 39. The draft law laying down certain competences of the autonomous province states: "Autonomic province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the field of geological research: 1) educates the Commission to pass an expert examination of the candidate from the territory of the Autonomous Region; 2) resolves on the requirements for the authorisation of geological research; 3) performs administrative supervision. "The SRS amendment proposes that in this article, item 1, point 1) and 2) be deleted. Geological research is not a local or regional character. They were always tied to the state and state bodies. Imagine, gentlemen, that this is not the case so that, for example, in some municipality or region information appears from this area and that information is sold to someone from local or regional level, to either alienate themselves from the state in any way. In all countries, this area is regulated in two ways: one as financed by the state and the other as natural persons buying concessions and doing research. In Vojvodina, this research relates to geological research into oil, gas, geothermal waters and non-metallic mineral raw materials for bricks. All the permits for exploitation and research are granted by the Republic authorities. By law, it is necessary to obtain agreement from several ministries: the Ministry of Mining and Energy, the Ministry of Urban and Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. It is known who approves and organises such tasks under this article of the 39th Omnibus. Serbia has bad experience through history with the debs, so this division needs to be prevented today. Once, not so long ago, Vojvodina was uniting, uniting, approaching and entering the same conglomerate called Serbia, and today, you from DOS, or not from all 18 parties, want Vojvodina to separate in one way, legally, from its queen - from Serbia. It doesn't mean anything special to you today, except that it acts on its own and works on its own, or that it is decentralised. You also invented the name omnibus which means "all" for the Serbian language. We Serbian have worked against this proposal for several reasons that we have already indicated. Geological research is also related to the profession, which is the Faculty of Agriculture and Geology, i.e. the Institute. This Article is replaced by the following: The bill goes into a lot of forms of what they say -- they do as trusted jobs. As far as point (1) is concerned, it educates the Committee for the pass of an expert examination - these are activities in the conduct of a state exam in that area, and so that this attitude takes on great rights that affect both statehood and statehood, and what it will do to you when you do not want to secession but only a degree of decentralisation. We, Serbian radicals, are against this article in 39, and we suggest that it be deleted. What's on the agenda today is the first stage of secessionism. Are you proposing this omnibus with him in Europe? Now, this Europe only designs, plans and acts in this way in our area. They probably need these members of the law to make it easier for them to, and in this area, called geological research, to act uninterrupted by their norms, principles and principles, against which we, Serbian radicals, are against. A tailoring, or secession of Serbia's space, is going so far as to threaten the existence of a Serb being. Why do we have to do the Duke's etatization now? (President: Mr. Služarevic, please return to the agenda topic. ) Should the budget now be increased so that this omnibus can function? This imposition on the people is a new imposition that you did not mention in pre-election activities. The 1990 constitution is the beginning of the democratisation of society. By that constitution, you of DOS have come to power. We, the Serbian radicals, could support the strengthening of local self-government, and what is being done here today is a conflict of interest, it's a Belgrade, that is, a new sadisation. The deal's down. The government will support this law. Canak is unhappy with the amendments, but this dissatisfaction goes on until January 28, 2002 at 15.50 p.m. when the promoter, but unauthorized, accepts all government amendments. So, another deal fell, and the trade took place in new relationships. History will record all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17086	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 49, against 77, with 22 abstention, 12 of the 160 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. National MP Stevan Guduric, submitr of the amendment to Article 39.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17087	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if we were in a hurry as Dragisa says, then you wouldn't be voting in principle for a law like this, and you'd be in a hurry to be polite. But you wanted us to take our time, your New Serbia scale decided to play here for days, and why, they know it best. Article 39 says: "Autonomic province, through its authorities, in accordance with the law governing the field of geological research: 1) educates the Commission to pass an expert examination of the candidate from the territory of the Autonomous Province; 2) resolves on the requirements of authorisation for geological research; 3) performs administrative supervision. "My proposal is to delete points 2) and (3) in point 1 because geological research is not a digging of corn or septic pits. Geological research is related to what was said in Article 38, with the exploitation of mineral raw materials, ore treasure. Whoever gets the right to decide on geological research and to open his book, because geological research opens a book of mine treasure, then gets some other rights. I don't think such rights, at least while such an organization is a state, can belong to an autonomous province -- not Vojvodina, not anyone else we can invent in the meantime. I don't think this is how it should have been written in this law, and you will, of course, vote for such a law, you will refuse the amendment as well as everything you refuse because you are so coded and prepared, otherwise it cannot happen to you; even those who don't come are voting disciplined, which is one significant progress in democracy. So I expect that some who didn't come today will vote, and those guys upstairs from the gallery, who used to say they were watching and watching, I think they're learning very badly here by hearing in this assembly. (President: Return to the agenda topic. It's all about the subject. If you brought them in to watch and listen, you can tell them something, if you call them guests, you can talk to them too.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17088	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) Chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17089	Ladies and gentlemen, we have essentially entered a significant area with previous Article 38, as well as with this Article 39, in the area of resources and potential of the Republic of Serbia. The resources and potentials of the Republic of Serbia were the basis and fundamental theme of the discussion of the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. When all of this was done and adopted The Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, all resources and potentials were considered and, in line with these resources and potentials, the purpose of the special area in the Republic of Serbia was determined. A specific location could at the same time be the source for a specific mine, could be agricultural land, could be the location of future accumulation, lakes. But looking at Serbia's continent, the purpose of each location has been determined and a balance has been taken down at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Now take this article 39. (as in previous 38), unfortunately, especially when it comes to a water-based base, it is now said that geological research in the territory of the autonomous province and that man could accept it, to lead a special team, and could accept if the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with constitutional members 71 and 72, were to oversee and control the application of the republic's rules. The obligation of the state under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under Articles 71 and 72, to entrust the enforcement of certain legal solutions, but to keep the control and control of the application of the law at the state level, because it reflects it as a state. Now, when we have the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia, when a balance has been made and everything in the interest, above all, optimal solutions of the Republic of Serbia and the even development of each part of it, can be entrusted with the province's enforcement in accordance with the Republic's legislation, including geological research, but can't be trusted, because surveillance is control, surveillance is the guarantee that the state controls the implementation of the republic's legislation in general. If you trust the execution and control of someone, then you don't have any control over that territory, and something that's overall is breaking, which is balanced. It is known that Šumadija now has no water, and it is known that the Užički region must not have a dirty industry because 80% of the water potential of this Serbia is located in the region, it is the cleanest water that maltene, does not have to be processed, in factories. Now someone in that piece is cutting off part of the paper, part of the territory, and they're saying -- now someone else is going to run that territory as an independent continent. What about the others? Guys, what you're doing is out of your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17090	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 74, abstentioned 18, 14 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 40th Amendment is the mid-national MP Slobodan Tomovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 71 abstentions, 15 did not vote 28 out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 40th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17091	Ladies and gentlemen, in the Proposal for a Law of 40, it concerns administrative and inspection oversight of the application of the law governing the area of inspection of steam boilers. For the uninvited, this could be an insignificant member of the bill's proposal, and perhaps so if only it were for boiler plants that serve to heat citizens and central heating. However, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, there are thermal power plants that are not to be trusted for inspection of steam boilers, and that is to the autonomous province. The reason for this is quite a bit; I'm surprised the government didn't accept this amendment, because, as you say, this government is from experts themselves, so these experts could tell you that the water vapor temperature is in such boiler plants, or as experts call it - dry water vapors, from 550 to 600 degrees, and the pressure that this pipe boiler system is exposed to is moving about 50 bars or 50 atmospheres. There is only one institution in the SRJ territory that can conduct a proper inspection of such facilities. It's a "Termoelectrico" from Belgrade. Now some autonomists can, smartly, plead - well, for our money we will buy and open such an enterprise, and I can tell you that it will be, as our people say, a little bit tomorrow Friday, because the equipment for examining such facilities is extremely expensive, and even the old ex-Yugoslavia, which had a lot more money than the AP Vojvodina and SRJ, could have equipped only one such company. So now it's left to the autonomous province that she's choosing who's going to conduct that technical examination. All thermal power plants, which exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are mostly Eastern European types. So, it can be authorized by one company or an organization from Eastern Europe, but our experience so far has not been positive. It happened in 1987, or 1988, at the Termo power plant "Kostolac B", or as it is otherwise called - Termopower Plant "Drmno", that the contractor and technology owner gave technical consent to let the thermopower plant into operation. All we expected was the consent of our inspection. It hasn't been won yet. They've decided to let the thermal power plant go to trial, testing and measuring. There's been an explosion in the boiler system, powered by steam. Even one worker, 20 or 30 metres from the place itself, was killed, not by pieces of iron, but cooked by simply water steam. So it's the only thing that can be trusted and given to the checked facilities, because it's the facilities that each one represents for himself a small atomic bomb. Now, if it is considered that here, after this pay phone, a man to whom it is to be trusted, whom I can say that only one simple animal, as our people say, threatened the peoples of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when he came here to threaten, is the question being asked -- can one such important thing be entrusted to him?
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17092	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17093	We have submitted the amendment because it is in line with the concept of our bill, which is practically made up of our amendments. And by the way, since in the whole bill of law we've predicted that these jobs are being done as confidential, if this is the way a member of the 40th will at least look like something. It's not so much disproportionate to our understanding, because if you want to determine to what extent the autonomy of the Vojvodina is natural, these matters the Republic can trust the inspectors of the steam boilers, which already exist in the districts, I mean, at least that's how it used to be, while I was working in the economy. I just want you to inform the National Assembly President, Natasu Micic, that I have called the number of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce - 3240-611, and that a kind secretary has told me that the president of the Chamber of Commerce is on his way today and that he is only returning this afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17094	I don't think there's anything in the communication between the MPs and the president of the assembly that would prevent you, as a MP, from speaking to the speaker yourself, with information about who you're calling and what happens next. But, of course, it is the chairman's duty to meet the demands of the MPs. I'll inform the president of the National Assembly. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to declare the amendment to Article 40, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote and declare that a total of 121 MPs voted on this amendment, which is not enough for the amendment to be decided, because the number is not enough for the People's Assembly quorum, so this vote is annulled. I'm asking that we determine the quorum, so that we can move on to the vote. I ask the MPs to use the cards to determine the quorum. Since there is no quorum for work, and in the meantime the boards are scheduled, I'm giving a break until 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your cards into the MPs' units to determine if we have a quorum and if we can continue our work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Before we continue the discussion in particular, I will give two notices. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the discussion in detail, I want to give you an explanation, in fact, of the information. [[Sagar.]] The first concerns the suspected nature of the afternoon session, with regard to the identification card of MP Radoslav Veselinovic. I've made a request to the Management Board. The Management Board session is scheduled for tomorrow and, if necessary, after the report, I will take the measures at my disposal under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The second notice is - I have delivered to you, I believe that the service has already shared, the report by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina on the accepted amendments in which, as an authorised representative of the promoter, the Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, Dr Predrag Filipov, was signed. We continue to work on the amendments. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 40th amendment. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. A debate has been held on this amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 38, against 92, abstentioned 18, 38 of the 178 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that Chapter 21 and Articles 41 to 50 be deleted. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17096	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Serbian Unity Party has proposed an amendment to Article 41, because we consider the area of agriculture to be the most important area in Vojvodina. In this article, we do not see that those who deal with agriculture will have any better conditions than they have so far. I'll read you two views of this member. The second point is said to determine the balances of agricultural food products and basic repromaries. The third point is said to propose the conditions of exports and imports of certain products. Instead of standing in this article - the price of agricultural products is proposed. If you remember, we also had a problem when the Minister of Agriculture, whose party lives and works in Vojvodina and is one of the legislators of this law, promised the peasants that the price of grain would be 11 dinars, and later, when he got that function, the price of grain was 7 dinars. I often mention it, and a large number of MPs tell me why you keep talking about agriculture. Here's why -- we from the Serbian Unity Party have to represent agricultural producers, because maybe we're the only party that has more officials in the agriculture party, and specifically -- I live in the country and I know how farmers live. We also expected this member of the law to say that all those agricultural producers who are asking for an unpaid agricultural pension will be exempt from paying for electricity until the state has met that obligation. It doesn't fit in this article. We also believe that this article should stand for those agricultural producers who have not been paid sugar tails, and owes them the state, to be freed from the obligation they have to the state. We believe that this should have been proposed by the Minister of Agriculture, and otherwise it is a high function, if it is also the legislator of this law. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know who we're talking to these three days about our amendments, if the legislator isn't present in this room. He's not in this room because he can't defend this law. We had a chance to see one MP, a national minority representative, who was not in the O.R., came out; I guess he was ashamed to vote for this law, because this law and this member of the law do not bring better tomorrow to national minorities or Serbs living in Vojvodina. The Serbian Unity Party will vote against this law, and I suggest you vote for this amendment, as a member of 41st does not bring better tomorrow to agricultural producers in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17097	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has a minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has accepted, i.e. the opinion is that Mr. Dragan Markovic's amendment should be accepted, but on Article 49; also, Mr. Sreten Mitrovica's amendment to article 69 and Mr. Djura Lazic's amendment to Article 70. The government is also withdrawing its amendment number 26. I'd like to inform you that I wouldn't be picking up all the time. The government is of the opinion that no amendment should be accepted in the course of the debate, the honourable MP Dragan Markovic, because what is stated in the explanation of the amendments - the acceptance of the proposed solutions would mean that there is a special law in the Republic on agriculture, which would apply only to the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina - does not stand, especially given that most, or all of the entrusted businesses, must be in line with the single programmes, i.e. the single agrarian policy for the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and that in the part relating to the protection, use and regulation of agricultural land, in the development guidelines, improvement of forests and cultivation of game, water and others. In line with the single policy in those areas, there remains a single inspection supervision for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The constant mention that accepting this law means the way to secession, that it's about secession, that it's about separatism, about establishing the statehood of Vojvodina, about autonomy, also about patriotism, about far or near history, simply has nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the degree of democratisation of a country is measured, after all, by the degree of decentralisation, by the degree of autonomy. I must remind you and take as an example two prosperous countries in Europe. I mentioned italia's opening statement. Autonomous provinces, i.e. the provinces of Italy such as Sardinia, Trentino, Vald Aosta and others, have an incomparably higher degree of autonomy than what the AP Vojvodina is offering; not to mention Sicily, Sicily has full autonomous judicial activity. To mention another prosperous country in Europe, Spain, the state of the region. Regions have huge autonomy; Catalonia, Aragonia, Andalusia -- they all have an extremely high degree of autonomy. Nothing wrong with these countries being the two most prosperous countries in Europe. The degree of democracy of one country is therefore measured by the degree of respect for autonomy, certain specificities of the region in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17099	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. 53, against 100, with 35 abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Right on the line, MP Pal Shandor. Replicu was challenged by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17100	Dear President, I think it was clear -- one was who was not present at the vote, and he participated in the debate, and it was me. My position was, of course, not a fruit of shame, but very aware, because it's not about decentralisation, it's about decentralization of power, where the province, instead of the current shell without content, will get some content, but not how autonomy should work, and since it's not minority, because it's autonomy. Since I didn't want to prevent the political majority that I belong to, to raise the quorum with my presence and thus prevent this law from going through, so my attitude was not the fruit of political shame, but was very aware that those who are coalition partners were allowed, although I disagree with some things, to vote this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17101	The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 41st Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17102	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the motivation to submit my amendment refers to Article 41(1) and (2) which, in my opinion, are problematic. Article 41. The bill implies that an autonomous province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the area of the agricultural budget: 1) educates the specific budget, funds or other forms of organisation in accordance with the single agricultural policy in the Republic of Serbia; 2) sets out the balances of agricultural and food products and basic repromation. Agricultural production in Serbia is one of the most widespread industries and it cannot be edited from one less territorial or autonomous continent, but on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, unnecessary competition would be created, inconsistencies between primary agricultural production and livestock production, as a higher form of agricultural production, without talking about the agricultural and food industry such as sugars, mills and meat industries. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that it can be regulated by a general policy to run an agrarian budget for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia must have a single agrarian budget, and balances are determined for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. What can Serbian citizens expect from Zoran Djindjic, Nenada Canka, Dragan Vesenova, Isakova, Kasa? They are united by common hysteria and the desire for Serbia to disintegrate, orders by foreign officials must be executed.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17103	Mr. Colic, I warn you not to insult and stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17104	I don't insult anyone. And the money for breaking Serbia has already been paid in the DOS pre-election campaign. The damage that will certainly be done in all areas will also take place in the area of the agricultural budget. The existence of a single agricultural budget is something that should be normal and there should be no dilemma about it. Unfortunately, thanks to DOS policy on the scene is the vote of one of the most embarrassing laws the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had on the agenda. The adoption of this law would result in inconceivable consequences in all areas of society, as well as in the area of the agrarian budget. The Serbian Radicals' stance is that there must be a single agricultural budget in the Republic of Serbia, and balances are being established for the whole territory of Serbia. Some new children of communism, born in DOS, probably think differently, and to the detriment of Serbian citizens. It is a shame to have a bill laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Province.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17105	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here from the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I suppose, or the president of one political party, I do not know in what capacity (usually they appear here as one political party), in a very rough way, we have heard a comment on the degrees of the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and especially on our justified fear and fear of repeating the scenario in principle already seen. I remind the predecessor that we were on one side of 1996 when we warned that Yugoslavia was falling apart and that everything we warned about had been realized, and that whether a man in power or in opposition should not have affected him so much that what was going on in front of his eyes is being interpreted in another way, and he already has experience behind him as it developed in other parts. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia tell us about Article 41? We warn that it is incomprehensible that we now say to this member that the autonomous province determines the balances of agricultural and food products and basic repromation. And we say it is incomprehensible that the autonomous province educates a specific budget, funds or other forms of organisation in line with the single agricultural policy in the Republic of Serbia. And the government tells us -- why don't an autonomous province from its own sources provide an additional budget, and finance subsidies for milk, meat, agricultural products from it. But it costs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it costs, to give Vojvodina the right to get even more into the pockets of budget bonds in the territory of the autonomous province, it costs. On the other hand, give the Duke the right to determine the food balances. This could mean nicely: if someone in Vojvodina says there are so many and so many residents in Vojvodina, we will determine the balances, or we will only produce so much and so much food. You got it. It has the right to establish the balances and to determine how much they need to produce, because our balance sheets are our production and consumption. You need to balance production and consumption. Why would the Republic of Serbia now establish some balances, and how it will determine them without a balance in which food production is large. If we go like that, then it could mean that Vojvodina will one day blackmail Serbia, and they'll say, our food production balance is this big and this big, we don't need it anymore, we won't produce any more. If you establish such a market principle, the question remains - and why are you in one country. Then someone in Serbia will say - well, we can buy from Ukraine wheat. But you must not be distracted by one fact: Serbia is unique. At one end of Serbia, wheat is produced, in the other end of the tractors, in the third part of it is grown fruit, and all of it is collected somewhere in one center, subtracting and finding out what else we need, what else we lack, what we have surpluses. And you now want a partial part of Serbia's territory to determine the food balance for that part of the territory. Make him step away from his balance sheet. You can't. You can't ask to be produced on your land, because people have a balance. Now you're still trying to convince us that it's nice, that it's all nice and that we should look like Spain. Yes, but every night, every night, I watch on TV TV in Spain as a separatist organization kills citizens of Spain, to achieve a goal called State secession, and the state does not grant secession. (President): Please, time. ) I see that too in France - and they have one territory that they have given a lot of autonomy, and from a lot of autonomy to secession is just a small step. We don't have a principle - you'll give me enough. We have a principle - I'm not given enough. That principle has broken that Yugoslavia, that principle breaks this Yugoslavia, that principle will also break some Serbia that you are building with a new constitution, that principle will divorce us as ashes are divorcing us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17107	Are there any other authorised participants? There is a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17108	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, presenting this report that we received from the District Assembly, where they say they have accepted the amendment, I have noticed that it is likely that a mistake has been stolen. The third point speaks of Amendment 5 to Article 15. (Amendment of Government). That's Article 16, because there's no amendment to Article 15, and it's probably a printing error. We have another question: Is it an amendment that the Assembly did not accept? (Since this is the January 30th report. ( ) So, could the Vojvodina Assembly subsequently adopt an amendment that the most legislative body did not accept, or could it agree? It's an interpretation that I don't think is right, and I don't know if the Legislative Committee should make this clear. I don't think the Parliament that's proposing can, since the most legislative body has refused some amendment, to accept it afterwards. That might not be possible. If there's a dilemma about the law, I'd like to take a stand on this, and then the government would have to intervene again.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17109	Mr. Michael, this was then the use of the Rules of Procedure. I think you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure? Approval. It's true, there's probably been a technical error. So, the amendment is on Article 16. We can ask for a technical correction from the Autonomous District Assembly of Vojvodina. On the second note, I have explained several times -- it is a broader interpretation of Article 145, an extensive interpretation -- because of the acceptance of some previous amendments, that the promoter can accept, and that it is the terms of Article 7, 11 and that I do not list any further. That's an explanation. Are you satisfied? Yes, it is. I ask the MPs to vote. For 55, against 97, abstentioned 38, 12 of the 202 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Zivanko Radovanchev. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17110	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 41. The reason is that by adopting a member in 41 and applying it in a consistent manner, we would do damage to this branch, which is very important to attract. It would be a shame that we would have two agricultural policies on the territory of Serbia's vastly small states and probably two agricultural budgets. This is truly absurd, when 15 European Union countries are integrated into a single space, with a unique agricultural strategy and policy and a unique and strong support for production and exports. We want to be competitive with the same European Union, in this area of agriculture divided and economically exhausted, without any more serious incentives and funds for development, production and export. I don't know what the proposal's intention or motive was to regulate this area in the proposed law. If it was necessary to demonstrate the width of change, and to give agriculture a folklore role on the principle of change for change, with adverse consequences, it is truly unreasonable. The change of form in the area of jurisdiction towards agriculture certainly does not change the essence. A fundamental change would be, for example, a change in the current government's relations with agriculture, where agriculture should have a priority in the development of Serbia's state. The fundamental change in current power towards agriculture, which would easily be seen, would have been that farmers, after one Beretic year, who had passed, had become economically stronger rather than poorer. Do you know that in 2001, farmers, despite going on to thank agriculture for that increase in production, further economically impoverished? Did you know that farmers had the most expensive crop in the autumn, without any support in terms of oil, seed, artificial fertilizer and no credit support, anyone who cares about greater production and cheaper food? In point 2 of Article 41, the reference is to determine the balance sheet of agricultural and food products. It is not disputed to deal with food balances. Every more serious household balances production, consumption and defines the market surplus of households intended for sale. I do not understand what the proposer of this law had in mind, proposing point 2) of this article. By applying point 2) of this article, we will come up with analytical data that the AP Vojvodina has market surpluses of most agricultural and food products. So, what next? Will the market and trade partner AP Vojvodina be the rest of the Republic of Serbia? Whether item 3 of this article, which reads as "Proposes the conditions of exports and imports of certain products", answers that the AP Vojvodina will treat the rest of the Republic of Serbia as well as any other state. Unfortunately, experience in recent history reminds us and reminds us that market disturbances in one single country preceded other misunderstandings and that as a result, we had the creation of new independent states. Does this member and his consistent application suggest such a order of things? For all of the above reasons in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I suggest that article 41 be deleted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17111	Anybody else answer for a word? The word comes from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17112	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we are leaving a series of members slowly related to the country's resources and potential, when it comes to ores and minerals and mineral resources. We're moving into agriculture, water and livestock. Even more than the previous members will show how much domestic policy is in the bill, some say the law bus, and lawyers say the law-making law, which is now under consideration in the Assembly. Any family where parents and children agree on what should be done is successful, in which income and expenditure is carefully analysed, and within the agreed policy of a family, each member of that family behaves. Could it be a successful policy where a part of Serbia demands the right to see agricultural and food products, repromation, determines surpluses and deficits, regardless of the rest of the family? The Republic of Serbia is one country. In addition to agricultural production, there is energy production in the Republic of Serbia, there is production in mines. Are we now going separately to observe energy production on the territory of Vojvodina and in the rest of Serbia, or mining production? Should it be said that market surpluses in one part of the economy can be a fearsome disadvantage in other parts of the economy? How far will Serbia go if autonomy ends with only where you're good you have the right to determine your plans, and where you're bad you have the right to take. This devastating policy of Nenada Chanka with politics -- where our money is, ends with divisions in this country. No one can deny it for this pay phone. If we in the area of agriculture at the level of the Republic of Serbia are planning production, planning surpluses and deficits, then we plan to do so at the level of other economic branches, as well as the need for imports of re-romitarians. This same Vojvodina uses gas in enormous quantities for both domestic purposes and for the production of artificial fertilisers and in the economy. That gas needs to be introduced. Whether Vojvodina will import it itself or at the level of the entire Republic, the quantity of imports and exports will be planned. You know, this policy, which here, unfortunately, goes and flows from day to day, is really going towards tearing up the Republic of Serbia as a single continent -- which is the worst, at a time when Europe goes into integration we go into disintegration. These are disintegration steps. If it says here that the autonomous province determines the balances of agricultural and food products and basic repromaries under the plan of the Republic of Serbia, then it could be accepted. It doesn't say anywhere here - as part of the balance sheet for the Republic of Serbia. So what is being advocated here is essentially -- where Vojvodina has its own production, powerful production, where it is true that part of that production goes beyond and to the needs of the rest of the Republic of Serbia, there Vojvodina will autonomously determine its balances. In energy, at the level of the Republic, mining at the level of the Republic, will be in the framework of metal production at the level of the Republic. What's that for? We, as socialists, are for the autonomy of the Vojvodina because of the tradition of this space, because of the multinational and multi-confessional community. We are not for that autonomy that is directly detached from the Republic, from it as queens and runs a completely independent policy. It's a total disintegration process in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17113	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 88 abstentions, 29 did not vote 20, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17114	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, by order of Article 61. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the citizens property on agricultural land and on other immovable and mobile matters, and on forests and forest land within the legally established borders. By way of derogation from Article 72, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been found to regulate and ensure the development of agriculture and villages. The provision of Article 109(1) requires that the autonomous province, through its bodies, adopt a programme for the development of agriculture and villages, in accordance with the plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia, and lays down measures for its implementation. By way of derogation from Article 71, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised that the Republic authorities are responsible for carrying out trusted tasks, in the enforcement of laws and other regulations, under the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I suggest that in Article 42(1), the word "bring" is replaced by the word "proposed", because these are important things whether someone will just suggest or someone will adopt a certain provision of regulations or laws. The AP Vojvodina's proposal for a programme participates in the single protection, use and regulation of agricultural land, and the development of agriculture and villages, in line with the plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia. Without this - in accordance with the plan and programme of the Republic of Serbia - the inalienable right of the Republic of Serbia is transferred as a country to an institution, i.e. a local community without any constitutional basis. I therefore believe that the AP, Vojvodina should propose a programme of protection, use and regulation of agricultural land for AP territory, in line with a single programme of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to speak to you and something important to tell you. This law proposes the feedback of this law. Article 117 of the Federal Constitution provides that no law and no regulation may have a return power. The law is proposed to apply from 1 January 2002. So, in this way, in the harshest way, the federal and at the same time the Republic Constitution is broken. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fear that in our Parliament, Makiavelli, part of his politics, historians, writers and politicians will rule Italy. Yes, as one republican leader said - Makiaveli was - said - was smart, but he was in a bad voice. Makiaveli relied only on force and did not rely on religion or Orthodoxism or democracy. I must say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that today, I am speaking today, a reminder and punishment to the MP Janjic, which in the most harsh way is a violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the SRJ and in Article 45 - guarantees freedom of expression of nationality and culture, as well as the use of his own language and letter. This means that Janjic, an SRS MP from southern Serbia, has the right in this parliament to speak in the mother tongue (not in another language) which some MPs may not recognise. Serbian radicals recognise any speech recognised by the Constitution of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia to all citizens of our country. Therefore, you are introducing repression, not democracy into parliamentaryism, into the practice of the most severe punishment, you are giving sentences to the MPs of the SRS who are more severe than those of the Penal Code. (Alexandra Joksimovic, from the place: "Don't scream." )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17115	Five minutes and 20 seconds. In accordance with Article 220, I am obliged to give the MP information that will enable him to use his rights, duties and obligations, which is that the 70th that he commented on, the Proposer accepted the amendment of Đura Lazic and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that the provision you spoke of does not stand because it will become an integral part of the bill. The presidency's obligation is to give information, and as far as the language is concerned, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 8, attitude 1 in official use in the Republic of Serbia is a Serbian language; it says in the Constitution. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to declare the amendment to Article 42, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. For 46, against 76, 20 abstentions, 38 of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Karolj Kermeci. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word, the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has been delivered by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to see such an amendment in order to point you to the inconsistencies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In response to this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Serbia said, in an explanation of not accepting the amendment, as well as the amendment of MP Bojan Kostreš, that, in line with the single programmes of the RS, inspection supervision remains unique for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, in areas where business confidence has been carried out. And, for God's sake, it's the government's position for which the amendment refuses to entrust inspection oversight to the Autonomous province in these affairs. To remind the government's representative, although he probably gave his political speech and went home, that in article 30 in the area of urbanism, the government of the Republic of Serbia had left inspection oversight of the AP Vojvodina, that it had left the government of the Republic of Serbia to the autonomous province, that it was in Article 40. The government has left to the autonomous province inspection control over the application of the law governing the inspection of steam boilers. What kind of government do we have? At all, the one who wrote the government's opinion did not go into the draft law. I don't know what he accepted with the amendments or what he refused. If the government says inspection supervision must remain unique for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, then it must be done in all areas. She cannot refuse to leave inspection in the agriculture authorities, but she has left inspection in the authorities of urbanism, construction, steam boilers. I haven't had time to comb the entire law this hour, and the question is, will I find any other area where inspection surveillance remains left to the autonomous province? So now, if the government says it is in accordance with the Constitution, what about the members in which the inspection is left to the autonomous province, which the government itself now claims are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So please, at least those of you who wear your head to think, not to be Government, to think about this in the future, and to ask your government -- where did she come from to be inconsistencies and that the same problem, just two members of the bill later, solves it in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17117	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Group of Members to Article 42. For 20, against 101, abstentioned 18, was not voted 32, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Bojan Kostresh.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17118	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult for me to agree with Mr Nikolic, and Mr Nikolic was right about his previous exposure. There is no logic that on one issue inspection supervision is entrusted to the Assembly, and on the other hand, inspection supervision is not entrusted to the Assembly. It makes no sense for the prime minister to say that the Dukes are two million people who know that they are thinking with their heads and have 120 MPs, who are elected and who also know that they are thinking with their heads and know how to manage. My esteemed colleague Popovic (I don't see him here, so I won't quote him) also said something. And, since it makes no sense to vote on my amendments to members from 42 to 48, because we know that you will vote against, I will withdraw them, but it remains for this home to think carefully about whether, by certain amendments and by certain powers entrusted to Vojvodina, we will plead against one issue - for, and by the other -- against? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17119	I find that the applicant has withdrawn the amendment to Article 42, which ceases to be the subject of the debate at the session in particular. There's no amendment, so then there's no debate. You have no basis for replication, he said - Mr Popovic, and he said - is not there. [[National MP Branislav Ivkovic requests the right to reply.]] You have no right to a replica. On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zivanko Radovanchev. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Zhivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17120	In front of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 43 of this proposed law and it is proposed that Article 43 be deleted as a whole. As the current government says otherwise - we aim at Europe and integration into the European Community. The current government also explains to us that in all areas of functioning of this country the adjustment process for this integration has begun. If so, why is it that in the sphere of science and selection in cattle farming in these areas, we go into disintegration, the opposite of Europe? Integration in this area in the European Union does not know the limits. The integration in this area in the world has gone so far that not only scientific and professional advice is formed at the level of one country, or the European Union, but scientific and professional advice gathered around individual races, breeds of bovine animals, pigsling, etc. is formed. So, the common denominator of integration in this area in a world that we seek is not a province, or a state, but a particular race and variety in the field of livestock, warfare, vegetables, with the ultimate goal of achieving increasing yields. In our case or rather in our own way, the common denominator or motive of the proposal is disintegration in this area, in the form of the creation of an illusion, in order to explain differently, the transfer of competence from the Republic to the province. It is truly unserious that in the sphere of political bargaining of individual DOS members, in the field of this legislative proposal, I manipulate what is more serious, and it is called selection, science development in this area. Therefore, for all these reasons I have put forward, I propose that the MPs of this republican congregation be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17121	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? He has the floor of MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17122	My dear gentlemen, I will have the basis for the replica tomorrow at ten o'clock, when I have a stenogram and when the current chairman of the Assembly has to give the replica. Then we'll talk about it. Now we're going to talk about a big nonsense, a nonsense defined in Article 43, and it's going to be even funnier when we talk about the nonsense defined in Article 44, when some fishermen are likely to have to paint duchy fish and Serbian fish in the Danube, and that's the story for the next member. The Ministry of Science and Technology has been working for ten years on parent committees in the field of science. These committees were in 1990, 1995 and 2000, and they are still working today. Unfortunately, these committees are considering programmes for which no contracts have been concluded in the last year and a half; we will talk about this, what 800,000 dinars have been spent on gifts for the New Year as well. But what's the point - is that there is a Committee on Agriculture in the field of science, in the area of agriculture, that there is warfare, vegetables, livestock, and in cattle farming, etc. And that the board has experts from all parts of the Republic of Serbia -- from Sudotica, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Somboro, and beyond, through Cačka, Kragujevac, Nis, without speaking to Belgrade. And, at the level of the Republic, there is a mind in the area of agriculture. We are in the area of agriculture extremely strong. We must not allow cutting, separatizing into the position a Romanian came into, which no longer has any scientific institute in the area of agriculture. It's all American, Pioneer and others. We have strong institutes in the area of agriculture and, instead of now, unity in a small country, in a scientific sense, to preserve, that at the level of the Republic of Serbia, we have a co-ordination of scientific work in the area of agriculture, some genius has come up with a scientific and professional advice for the implementation of selection measures in livestock. So cows and oxen are different in Vojvodina than cows and oxes in Mladenov, Kragujevac, Nis. Well, guys, so what are we coming to, so we become that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17123	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. 53, against 76, abstentions 14, did not vote 26, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, there is a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when this government was established then her president said it was one government made up of the greatest experts and one government that is transparent. So her work can be seen and controlled. This means that the government's work is radical, that the government should actually accept any radical criticism if it doesn't work well. However, if you tell this speaker that the government is not doing well, if its ministers are not doing well, you get a warning. I have submitted an amendment to Article 43 in which I suggest that the word "bring" be replaced by the word "proposed." This article reads: "Autonomic province, through its bodies, in accordance with the law governing the area of measures to improve livestock farming: 1) adopts a programme of selection measures for the improvement of livestock farming for the territory of the Autonomous Province in accordance with the single programme of the Republic;2) educates the Scientific and Professional Council for the implementation of selection measures in livestock." I will give an explanation -- an autonomous province, proposed by selection measures, participates in a unique improvement of livestock farming in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Not so long ago we were at the very top of selective measures, both in warfare and in livestock. When the previous government, like this one, began importing products, meat and milk, under the pretext that our prices are high and not marketable, there was a decimation of the stock fund, its destruction or, as a result, a forced slaughter in Serbia. Today, livestock farming across Serbia has been reduced by 70% and total extermination is threatened in some places. In order for this process to be restored, gentlemen, it takes time, work and patience, because good selective material is rapidly destroyed and difficult to create today. This work is done by special institutes, by selecting the seed, and also by importing the seeds that contain high genetics, which means increasing milk and meat, so, as so far, it is necessary and desirable to supply the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia from one place to deal with this business. The professional services involved in these affairs work under very difficult conditions because the repromaterial, the production material, has been significantly destroyed. Today, the huge prices of selective breeding seed are also the prices of veterinary medicines and services, and the conditions in which these cells function and work are very difficult. That's why I think the Department of Agriculture should pay more attention to this business. Agriculture has been a taboo topic so far for every government. The peasant is a hero of the nation, for he feeds and defends the state: when he reaps and gathers and gathers the harvest with milk and meat, then all of them look into his pocket and speak, he lives in the village. Gentlemen, today the village lacks as much quality selective material as it lacks those who need this selective material. Peasants are dissatisfied with the work of the agriculture ministry headed by Minister Dragan Veselinov. This year they made him a straw house, asking for his shift, but the Prime Minister won't, because of his statement that "no grain of wheat will leave the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina". May every harvest he sows. He deserved because of that statement to be removed, and he did not receive a warning that he had publicly sought the Republic of Vojvodina. And I got a warning from the president of the congregation because I love my country and my people and I'm telling the truth. A farmer loves his own land best, because of it he lives, and is born on it, and dies on it. The peasant found that there was no rentability, because when the thirst and harvests, then the state is setting the price, which is an example of the purchase of wheat and meat. It used to be a good ad for the village and peasants in the communist system, when the nation's father struck down the most beautiful ridge, and never an eagle. When the first tractor comes, the father of the nation first seats for the tractor driver and shows the nation how productive it is in the country and how well it is to live. Today we are sixty-year-olds, living in villages, where many houses are empty and destroyed. (President: Time. ) The current Prime Minister, seeking to improve livestock production and selective measures to improve livestock farming, visited the hero's own farms, probably realizing that without quality selective seeds, no top production can be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17125	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 43 is another member of whom both the leadership of the Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is clouding the eyes of citizens. The people from Vojvodina, and the ones from the Government of the Republic here to us, it's mostly one meaningless member. When you look at a member, you should have objections to it, because why should the autonomous province bring a selection programme when it is working on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and when you read in detail what to do and do not allow it when it says it will be in line with the unique programme of the Republic. What you didn't write well then - implement the programme of selection measures carried out at the level of the Republic, so that there, in this advice that brings the programme of measures, will be represented and representatives of the Vojvodina, and we will end the work of the people. Because what that means now is that an autonomous province is bringing in a program, and on the other hand you're saying it has to be in line with a programme adopted for the territory of the Republic. So it's actually proposed that in this programme for the Republic, the part that's being applied in Vojvodina be as proposed by an autonomous province. Well, then more -- it participates in the creation of this unique programme -- and we've all been satisfied with the wishes, ambitions, demands, decentralisation, democracy. This way, no one's satisfied. How does an autonomous province bring its programme, when it must be in line with the programme to be adopted for Serbia's territory? Why don't you at least accept that - suggests, as it will be? Because if it adopts a programme that is not in line with the programme in Serbia, the programme will not be accepted. Then what brings it? Did you really give this right to an autonomous province to bring in a selection programme or lie to citizens in the territory of an autonomous province, or are you lying to these autonomists who would like to bring in a selection programme? That program will measure every farmer for himself. Everyone will choose what is best, what makes the best offerings, what he can best raise, and he doesn't care what kind of selection measures you're going to apply. We're heading for private property, no more of those big cooperative estates, so you can run some state selection measures there. Now everyone is selecting what income and profit brings to him personally, and you are still engaged in planing agriculture, planing production, planing to select cattle. The peasant does so alone in every village, even in the most remote village, and doesn't even know what it says in the selection measures brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But that's why some people have offices, phones, cars, cell phones. When it was brought to one place, there were few employees, and now it will be in two places, so it will be more employees. There was a little cost in one place, and now there's going to be a little more expenses in two places, so all of a sudden, you're lying to each other here. You agreed on how to make the bill look, and now the Serbian government has completely changed it with another 30 amendments. You who have proposed the law say that the government has changed it well, and it has abolished these amendments a lot of what you wanted. When this bill is passed, if ever adopted, nothing will mean anything to Serbia. It will only mean 20 days of work by the National Assembly and meaninglessly spent money and energy. We could've done something a lot more serious and something much smarter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17127	Anyone else want a word from an authorized participant? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 37, against 81, with 10 abstentions, 22 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ratimir Svirčević, Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović and Kermeci Karolj. The proposing representative and the government have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 13, against 97, with 11 abstentions, 25 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kostreš. I find that the MP has withdrawn the amendment to Article 43. Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Branislav Blazic and MP Borisvoje Drakulovic. Representative, Government and Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? The word has Stevan G. Guduric, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, my colleague Borisvoje Drakulovic of the SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to delete Article 44, with an explanation that the proposed solution does not bring any improvements and that it is more logical to place points 2) and 3) in the said member to the local self-government. The government's explanation of why such an amendment is not accepted (which was submitted in the same text by MPs Branislav Blažic and Borisvoje Draculaovic) is that the government does not accept the amendment in the proposed decentralisation of fisheries-related jobs. The use of the fishing area shall be determined by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, in accordance with the single fisheries policy for the whole territory of the Republic, established by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Fisheries Affairs. In line with the single fisheries policy, the competent ministry will establish the limits of the fishing area, by resolving mutual relations between borderline users by agreement, which cannot be the basis for challenging the transfer of competences from this area to an autonomous province. In accordance with the uniformly established amount of fees for the use of fishing areas, the compensation incurred in the territory of the autonomous province belongs to the users of those fishing areas. In the context of a single fisheries policy, it remains a single inspection control for the entire territory of the Republic. This explanation would drink a lot of water if not to talk about an autonomous province, but to local self-government, because if someone is already going to draw the limits of fishing areas and end it all, then it would be more logical that, in this much announced decentralisation, it would be entrusted to local self-government rather than to an autonomous province. In point 1) of this article is said to give consent to the fisheries promotion programme in the fishing area - it will turn out when we in Vojvodina improve our fish, yours in Serbia will lag behind the sheep. Since it looks like it's over today, I would ask, Mrs. Komic, to determine the quorum, because when you look like this, it doesn't seem like we're enough to be able to work, and that's the problem with you in DOS that makes most.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17129	You don't have to worry about DOS problems. I am more concerned that you are submitting the amendment, so there are no MPs of your own to vote for that amendment, but that is the attitude and the right of MPs. (StevanGuduric: Mr. Drakulovic's sister died and is at the funeral today. Don't interpret it like that. I ask the MP to take up the parliamentary bench. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17130	Regardless of what a lady you are, Mrs. Komic, MP Gudurić asked for a quorum by the Rules of Procedure, and you threw it when he left the pay phone; you even looked like Radomana Bozovic, who made the radicals go to the bench, so now he's gone in public life. This, ladies and gentlemen, is about fishing and fish. The Serbian Radical Party thinks Serbs are indivisible, country, air, water and forest. You thought the woods were indivisible, so here I see today the shelters that the forests are divisible. Indeed, if you look at one territory geographically, one country if you look at geographically, you cannot share air, soil, and water with it. You can't, at least as much as you want it and it's incomprehensible at all what this member gets about trusting fishing in an autonomous province. Where's your fish growing in the aquarium? It should also be predicted that autonomous province should even be entrusted with control of fish farming in the aquarium. The government of the Republic of Serbia should have decentralisationd the area to the end, not to turn out to be a non-democratic regime because the government did not entrust all affairs to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Until now, it has been said that an autonomous province has adopted a programme, proposing a programme in accordance with some republican regulations, in accordance with the law. Now says, in fishing, the autonomous province gives consent to the Republic of Serbia's medium-term fisheries promotion programme in fishing areas on the territory of the autonomous province. Now we get to those famous consents that the republican authorities have to get from the authorities of the autonomous province -- they're going to start in fishing, so they're going to be hunting, then they're going to be in the police, and they're going to be in the military. I've seen it all and experienced it, unlike some of you who won't even watch it on TV. I experienced that the military column of the united Yugoslavia was stopped by the republican authorities of a republic that wanted to secede and that military column did not pass there. I have experienced that the authorities of the autonomous province do not allow the police to intervene in the territory of the autonomous province. Now we have finally come to the agreement of the Autonomous province of the Republic on some plans, on some of the procedures of the Republic, because the Autonomous province already has the right to give or not to give consent. What happens if you don't give consent? Some act will not be adopted and the entire area will remain unregulated. Then the blackmail will start, like here about the vote: I'll give you the paper for the factory, you vote for this law, I won't go after you for the crime, vote for this other law. Can you run a state that long? I don't think so. So I suggest that if there are enough MPs present, you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17131	Do any of the other participants want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan G. Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17132	Mrs. Komic, you have offended MP Borisvoj Drakulovic with his comment that he has submitted the amendment and is not present. Unfortunately, Mr. Dracula's sister died yesterday and is at the funeral today. I'd like to ask you to take such comments with you, because you don't know the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-01-30-0.u17133	My sincere condolences to our fellow MP and his family for the death of his sister, but I said: I am sorry that there are no MPs of yours to support by voting the amendment that you are submitting to the National Assembly, which is the right of every political party and group to stand and behave on their own amendment. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Stevan G. Gudurić asked us to establish a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, so I ask the MPs to establish the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum and I'm announcing that we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 154 MPs. Please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum and we can continue to work. Before notifying the absence of MPs, a notice from the Committee President, Dr Drago Hiber, that the 30th session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will continue its work by considering amendments to the proposal for a law on local self-government on 31 January 2002 at 1400 hours, at the Hall and on the ground floor, unless otherwise specified. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Stevan Lilić, Meso Omerović, Vladan Jovicic, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Kermeci Karolj, Jelena Milenković, Dragan Jočić, Ratimir Svirčević, Dusan Budišin, Dragan Kovacevic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Vasilija Pavicevic, Teodora Vlahović and Zivica Predojev. I am informing the National Assembly that they are invited to attend: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of Serbia; the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat; Nenad Canak, President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and Dr Predrag Filipov, Vice-President of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, as the mandated representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who has submitted a bill on the determination of certain competences of the autonomous province, whose consideration is under way. Also, according to members 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I invited representatives of the People's Movement "Resistance", as well as representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to this session. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE AUTONOMAL COUNTRY (addition) I remind you that the debate on the bill on the determination of certain competences of the autonomous province, in particular, was interrupted during the review of the amendment to Article 44, which, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Branislav Blažić and Borisvoje Drakulović. I would also like to remind you that MPs Stevan Guduric, representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia and Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, participated in the search for the amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Borislav Pelevic, a representative of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group, and then MP Branislav Ivkovic, spoke to the Socialist Party of Serbia.
