ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21904	In the light of the draft law on local elections, Article 64 is not reasoned. This article provides for a fine of 100 to 200 000 dinars for a political party, a coalition, or another political organisation or another legal entity that collects signatures against the provisions of Article 23. So there is a fine of 100 to 200 thousand, and in the second position a fine of 5 to 10 thousand is foreseen, in the third too. I wonder what parameters have decided to define this amount from 100 to 200 grand? There's no way to predict such a punishment without the promoter telling us what he's been doing. Why 100 to 200 grand? Did any other law serve as an example, so the criteria of that law are considered? Of course, I won't insist that it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure, but it would be good, if it were a failure, to know why such a punishment. On the other hand, the Serbian government has proposed an amendment to Article 20, which says that among each four candidates in order on the list must be one candidate -- a member of the half that is less represented on the list. This is a direct call to violation of the Constitution and I don't know where you saw this. What does it mean to be one such candidate? What is this freedom of choice? The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in Article 20 says - citizens are equal regardless of nationality, race, gender, language, religion, political and other beliefs. It is not disputed that there is a Constitution and a law guaranteeing equality in this country. If in practice it appears, everyone has the right to seek protection guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, so now go to the fact that each four has to be one candidate -- a member of the half that is less represented on the list, and that means 30% of the candidates. How do you determine the political freedoms of 30%? Was that the idea of giving women 30%? They are indivisible freedoms and cannot be determined by percentages. I guess this was a little bit of work, in the heat of wanting to make the proposal as good as possible. Especially since Government Amendment 1 explains: "The proposed solution provides the equality of both sexes". Well, isn't she provided with the Constitution and the law by now? It means that there is no equality. That's why I singled out my opinion, because I think this is an invitation to a violation of the Constitution. A team before the government of the Republic of Serbia, assessing the amendment of the group of MPs, Olga Kircanski, Rodoljub Sabic, Mehe Omerovic, Zivko Selakovic and Dragan Markovic, who are heading in the same direction, explained that the amendment is rejected, as there is no constitutional-legal basis for determining the election list's obligations regarding candidates for members of the local self-government assembly, so that there must be a number of candidates on the list of any half. Therefore, I am now interested in what position the Government represents.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21905	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Dusan Budishin, who also issued an opinion at the Committee's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21906	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, along with my colleague George Mamul, has given my opinion because I think the bill is another example of the government playing with parliament. First, as far as the level of fines is concerned, the government allows itself the freedom to do so in an explanation, which is due, does not say a single letter about Article 64. We're really interested, and it's a shame that Mr. Kasa isn't here, probably because Mr. Martian isn't being replaced, then he would be. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Then it will be when you change. I suppose so, Mr. Chad. It's just about playing parliament. The penalty is so much, and I'm interested in what criteria it was measured by, or I guess it was used to determine the amount of fines to manage it with its own standards. There's no way to accept that, and it's just not allowed. To make things worse, there's no one here today from the government to explain it to us. As for the second reason why we singled out the opinion, we believe that the Constitution was violated by giving these criteria -- to be 30%, so yesterday on the Justice Committee, I said that I really don't mind being 50%. Of course, more than 50%, according to the situation. Given the position of the 2nd member, I wonder who will be responsible if the elections fail because of this, because we have the situation in Serbia that we have and it is not the same in all places. How, say, those in southern Serbia will raise that percentage, I don't understand. You know, when it comes to the law, then it must be kept in mind and measure. Our people say nicely - no more Catholic than the Pope should be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21907	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, MP Borislav Pelevic, authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group on this agenda. (Borislav Pelevic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21908	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 89. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the draft act, i.e. the mandated representative of the proposing group, is given the floor when requested and not subject to restrictions on the duration of the presentation. I underline that the government has changed the rapporteur on this agenda point and has appointed Mr Nebojsa Covic instead of Mr Vladan Batic. I suppose it is the law on local elections, which primarily refers to a very complicated situation in southern Serbia. You know well that Serbs from several municipalities in southern Serbia are mass evicting and I would not call it by solving problems in southern Serbia. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that we postpone this session and debate in principle until Mr Nebojsa Covic, who will probably explain to us the purpose and purpose of this law on local elections, which, above all, refers to southern Serbia. I think it's groundless to discuss in principle before we hear Mr Nebojsa Covic, who is certainly the most measured to explain to us what the purpose and purpose of this law is. So, the proposal of the Soviet Parliament group is that the debate on this issue should be postponed until the government's rapporteur, Mr Nebojsa Covic, submits an opening statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21909	You have advertised a violation of article 89 and have put forward a proposal for the Assembly to declare a break until the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nebojsa Covic, arrives from Bujanovac. I would like to put forward a motion by MP Borislav Pelevic to set a break until Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic arrives. For 85, against 63, the three abstentions, did not vote 17 out of 168 MPs. I understand that the proposal of MP Borislav Pelevic has been accepted and I am setting a break by 14.00 hours. After that, we'll be working without a break, if we're taking a break by 1400 hours. I call on the committees to hold sessions on this agenda. [[After break - 14.30.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. I understand that the MPs of the Soviet Union were not present in the hall, on whose proposal we set a break until the act's proponent, Mr Neboja Covic, arrived from Bujanovac. Before I give my word to the promoter, I would like to give you one notice - on the basis of Article 73(2), I schedule a session of the Legislative Committee at 1800 hours, i.e. after the completion of today's work because of the collapsing which was created, i.e. not accepting amendments to Articles 19 and 20. Proposal for a law on local elections. I give my word to Mr Nebojsa Covic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21911	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Local Self-Government provides for the adoption of a special law that would regulate the selection of committees and presidents of the municipality, or mayor. In order to regulate the overall system of local self-government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption of the Bill on Local Elections, which provides for a significant newspaper related to the selection of committees and in a new way regulates the selection of the president of the municipality, or mayor, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government. The proposal for a law on local elections provides for the application of a proportionate electoral system in which the municipality represents a single electoral unit in the selection of committees, and for the election of the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor, a majority double-circular system is envisaged. In view of the fact that when the law was drawn up, legal solutions in this area were considered, certain solutions in the bill were improved compared to the solutions in force in this area so far, thus bringing our electoral system closer to the electoral systems of European countries. This, above all, refers to both the application of the proportional system and the application of Hayr-Nimajer's (Hare-Niemer) system in the allocation of the board's mandate, which allows for a more proportionate allocation of mandates compared to the number of votes won by the corresponding electoral list, unlike the applicable Dont system so far. The process of collecting voters' signatures to support the electoral list of parties, coalitions and groups of citizens envisions the need to collect 30 voters' signatures on a proposal for one candidate, or at least 200 voters per voter list. Special attention is paid to solving certain situations that have caused confusion in the current election practice. The provisions on the necessary documentation to be attached to the electoral list where significant newspapers are a legal obligation to apply the coalition agreement, when it comes to coalition lists. In fact, no doubt one of the most frequently expressed problems so far has just been a problem of interpretation and legal importance of coalition agreements, so this issue is regulated in this way in order to facilitate legal protection in the event of breach of these provisions. When proposing candidates and allocating the mandate, it is mandatory to take into account, in accordance with the provisions of this proposal, the equal representation of candidates of both genders, etc. positive gender discrimination. Since the list promoter's obligation to list at least 30% of those genderes who are less represented on the list, and each fourth candidate in order on the list, the first four places on the list, the other four places on the list, and so until the end of the list, will be the candidate of the half that is less represented on the list. Compared to the level of censorship that must be met by parties, coalitions and groups of citizens to participate in the allocation of mandates, it is important to stress that its height has been reduced from 5% to 3% in order to ensure more full participation of parties, coalitions and groups of citizens in the allocation of mandates. The application of Hajr-Nimayer's system of mandates between different electoral lists is distributed by multiplying the total number of parliamentary seats by the number of valid votes won by each of the electoral lists. The resulting product is then divided by a total number of votes given to all voting lists, excluding votes given to those voting lists that did not receive at least 3% of the total number of voters who voted. Each election list shall be assigned as many parliamentary mandates as the total numbers resulting from this proportion. If one or more parliamentary mandates remain unscheduled, they shall be assigned to the electoral lists according to the majority of the fractions. An important paper is to provide for solutions that allow voters to submit an election list for a number of candidates, two-thirds of them, self-deliver data on the basis of which they will be elected committees, while one-third of the mandate is assigned to candidates in their order on the list. This solution allows the proposings to partially deviate when determining which candidates are selected as committees, from their order on the list. Among the two-thirds of the candidates who are assigned mandates based on the data provided by the list promoters, a number of members of the less-represented sex on the list must be required, in accordance with this draft law. Also, in practice, the issue of incompatibility and termination of the mandate of the board was often raised, and these provisions are also specified in the draft law. With regard to the election of the president of the municipality, i.e. the proposal for a law in general provides for a procedure for proposing elections and recalls the head of the local executive authority. That is how a 3 per cent voter's support is foreseen for the municipality's president. As is known, the Law on Local Self-Government provides for support of 10% of voters in the local self-government unit. It may seem at first sight that these two provisions are not in line, however, it is important to see a significant difference between the candidate for the president of the municipality, which may and should be a larger number, given the importance of these functions and the relatively large number of signatures that support that candidacy. On the other hand, it is logical that even more qualified support is needed for a motion to recall the already elected president of the municipality, which means 10% of the voters enrolled. Finally, it is important to note the importance of the transitional and final provisions of the bill, which provide for the application of this law since the first upcoming elections for the entire assembly of the local self-government unit, i.e. of elections in individual or all units of local self-government, as specified in the provision of Article 130. Law on local self-government. The importance of the proposed law is evident and the adoption of this law allows, first and foremost, the establishment of bodies of local self-government units in a manner provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government, and that only the conduct of the elections is carried out in a procedure which removes the legal shortcomings so far resulting from the inaccuracy of applicable laws which are governed by the choice of committees and that they are maintained in accordance with the modern comparative and legal solutions in this area. Namely, this law contains modern comparative solutions in this area and allows elections to be conducted in a democratic spirit. That is why I propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law on local elections after the search and debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21912	I thank the proposing representative, the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nebojsa Covic. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21913	Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, the adoption of a law on local elections stems from a recently adopted Law on Local Self-Government, and there is nothing controversial about it. It is only dispute whether this law applies to all Serbia, how long this law will last, or only to the upcoming elections in southern Serbia in three disputed municipalities -- Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. That is why we need to determine today what municipalities this law applies to and whether it is unique for all of Serbia, because that is why we need to determine our relationship with this law. In all countries of the world, laws have a pretty long life span. Our laws change several times a year, which is certainly not good, because it brings confusion and does not give security to the citizens of Serbia in our legislation and in our legal system at all. So, the question I ask, especially the respected Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, is whether this law applies only to Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac or to the whole of Serbia? What is indicative is that the government first proposed that the rapporteur be Mr Vladan Batic under this law, and later appointed Mr Nebojsa Covic, who is certainly the most measured for events in southern Serbia, in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja as rapporteur. That's what's most important to me in this whole thing. Not equal to 3% in Presevo and Medvedja and 3% in Jagodina, Kragujevac or Belgrade. It is not the same as being a Serb in Presevo and Medvedja or being a Serb in Jagodina, Kragujevac or Belgrade. These two things we have to distinguish, and I'm saying this not from a national point of view, but from the point of view of the Serb community living in those parts. Respecting the efforts of Mr. Covic, who has indeed made a major contribution to the resolution of the crisis in southern Serbia, I remind you that we are the only party to the opposition to support his crisis resolution plan; unfortunately, the plan has not been realised and the crisis in southern Serbia has not been resolved, regardless of all the efforts Mr. Covic has made. I suppose he remained lonely in solving the problem of southern Serbia, because if the solution to the problem of southern Serbia is that our people are moving out of Presevo, Medvedje and Bujanovac, to sell houses, to sell properties, then it's the same scenario as in Kosovo and Metohija. The issue of adopting this law is therefore extremely important, what it really refers to. Will it happen tomorrow, if we choose, in Bujanovac or Presevo the president of the municipality, that he does not allow the prime minister of the Serbian government to hold a rally at the home of culture, or will he be asked to do so in a fantastically large amount? Then what is the president of the municipality, what is this municipality and what is the authority of the prime minister of Serbia who must then hold an open-air rally? So it's very important what this law applies to. If this law applies to all of Serbia, we are prepared to support it if some of our amendments are adopted, but if it applies only to Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, then we seem to only seem to be doing so to Albanians in southern Serbia, who already issued a referendum in 1991 on the addition of that part of Serbia to Cosmet, because they still considered it an independent Albanian republic; and, let us not forget that Riza Halljimi was one of the organisers of the same referendum. Therefore, we must be very careful in observing this law, and we must be sure of that. What's good about this law is that the municipality is viewed as a unique whole. What's not good is that the census is only 3%. This means that if we multiply it, about 720 citizens can choose one councilman in one municipality, on average, and that's not good enough. One more thing that is very important, in my opinion: here in Article 28 is said - in municipalities where the languages of national minorities are officially used, ballots are also printed in these languages. Of course they should be printed in all languages of all the nationalities that live there. I wonder, because it is unclearly written here, whether it is a special ballot in Albanian for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, or whether it is a unique ballot on which the text will be written in two letters, in Serbian and Albanian. This is not so explained in Article 28 and leaves a reserve for it. So these are issues that, in my opinion, are essential to this law that doesn't essentially change anything, except that the municipalities view it as a single continent and that it goes from majority to proportional system, which is good. In our opinion, a party that cannot achieve 5% in the elections in one municipality should not be represented in the municipality, but if it is about Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac, where Serbs are represented in a very small number and where the Serbian emigration works, then we are ready to support that clause, but we must be clearly told. That must be clearly explained, to see what the purpose of this law is. By calling on Serbs to vote in Kosovo and Metohija, to remind you, we got nothing. We've won a war criminal named Bajram Rexhepi as Prime Minister. Governments (I call it so-called because for me it is not a government, for me there is a government of Serbia, because Cosmet is part of Serbia), as well as setting Ibrahim Rugova as president of the so-called Republic of Kosovo; for me it is not that. Or maybe the gentlemen who invited the Serbs to the election thought they'd beat Trajkovic or anyone else in the election. No, it was known that the Albanians would win and that Hashim Thaci be prime minister or his first man will be prime minister. [[elevator in the O.R.]] So, the Serbs did not get anything by going out to the elections in Cosmet. On the contrary, they have lost much. I fear that by adopting this law, we will bring our people, the Serb animal in southern Serbia, into the same situation as the Serb animal that remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija. So I ask the honourable Mr Nebojsa Covic to explain what this law applies, since the government has appointed him to be the rapporteur on this issue and given the fact that elections in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac are approaching. In addition, it has never been said and nowhere has it been announced what the results of the census in southern Serbia, in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji are. It is never said whether Albanians from Kosovo or Albanians from Albania are prevented from coming and are registered as citizens of southern Serbia, i.e. Presevo, Medvedje and Bujanovac. First, we need to clear up some issues before it becomes an election organisation at a local level in southern Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21914	Thank you. The word is proposed by the act, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21915	Thank you, Mr Pelevic, for the warm words of support regarding the southern Serbia, but I must say that the programme is being implemented and not implemented until the end because its implementation period is scheduled for three years. Maybe it looks funny to some people, they wouldn't think it'd be funny if they went down to the front line, so they'd laugh differently. Laugh all you want, gentlemen. The law applies exclusively to all Serbia. The law can change, and yet we know how -- only the Serbian Parliament can change it. This law we are proposing today refers to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for the specificities that we have as inherited, specificities in the area of the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja and in the area of some other municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. As for me being a reporter in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, this was caused by the journey of Mr Batic, who was absent yesterday and today. I've taken the obligation to be a reporter in front of the Serbian government, and he'll probably hang out with you from Tuesday, I don't know, he'll be here tomorrow, but I don't think the assembly's working tomorrow. As for ballots, ballots are bilingual. That's the only way it's going to be printed ballots. I would not be spreading the topic around Kosovo, but only for a short time to avoid missing the topic -- perhaps the Serbs won nothing by going out in the Kosovo and Metohija elections. But what is very important, at least for now, and I hope it will be and from now on, Serbs have not lost, I will not say anything, Serbs have not lost Kosovo. They could have lost Kosovo if they hadn't gone to the polls. I hope that in general as a state, and a federal and a Republic of Serbia, we will not lose it. I agree that this is not just a matter of one man, but of all of us, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the census in southern Serbia, the census was made as in all Serbia, adding another ballot in southern Serbia, which is "South 1" as a checklist on the basis of which further checks are being carried out. Be assured there will be no voter lists registered in Kosovo's space, the ones that are possibly registered in Macedonia's space. They will not be allowed to vote in both central Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, and I do not know where. These controls end and I think they will be completed before the election itself with the cleansing of voter lists, with the help and co-operation of the OSCE. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21916	I thank Mr. Covic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Please, the word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21917	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament is today discussing the proposal for a law on local elections. It's the best proof that we've got local elections coming up. It would be logical if the local election law were discussed at the same time as the Law on Local Self-Government. The date of the new local elections is also set. That didn't happen then. DOS did not want it or at the time could not agree on how council members of municipalities in Serbia were elected. The law on local elections, i.e. new local elections, is a presumption of the full application of the Law on Local Self-Government. Only after the election, i.e. the implementation of the law in general and the election of new authorities, will the accuracy of the claim made by us by the Socialists, that the law is abundant in numerous weaknesses, contains solutions and institutes that are a declaratively formal democratic character in which citizens lose their ability to be the subject of decision-making and to shape the contents of local self-government at that level at which they live and work. The law on local elections and new elections should correct all the numerous irregularities that have occurred or exist in local self-government since October 2000. First of all, I mean those municipalities where the council majority was won by the Socialists, either alone or in the coalition, but where local authorities were violently taken over with the help of DOS crisis headquarters. These include municipalities in which the government of the Republic of Serbia has imposed a forced administration, thus overturning the electoral will of citizens. For the past 15 months, such municipalities have been 29. The truth is, I have to say that in a number of these municipalities last November, local elections were held, but there are still one number of municipalities where forced administration was introduced, and the government of the Republic of Serbia does not think of a new election being scheduled and that citizens, of course, decide for themselves who they will trust. The Law on Local Elections and New Elections should correct irregularities that exist in a number of municipalities where DOS is also in power, as the ministry of justice and local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia take no positive measures. Such a drastic example among several others was the municipality of Kučevo, where, for example, the adoption of the municipality's budget included five SPS committee members who were excluded from the party's membership. The end of the term of office of 17 committees has been established before, and the president of the National Assembly has called additional elections for these 17 committees. Thus, the Kucevo municipality did not want to determine the termination of the term of office of disfellowshipped members, they were needed for the quorum not only when adopting the budget, but also when adopting other decisions of the assembly. The ministry of justice and local self-government, although thoroughly familiar with it, did not respond to these illegalities at all, nor did it propose to the government that the assembly of the municipality be dissolved. The Law on Local Elections and New Elections should correct and wrong the government of the Republic of Serbia by disbanding the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. These municipalities were disbanded the day before the new Law on Local Self-Government came into force, based on the old law and provisions that DOS itself assessed as anachrons and non-democratic. These municipalities have been disbanded in advance, in a way that is certainly unique to our legal order. On February 28th, the government decided to disband the three municipalities on April 25th, and then the new decision moved the divorce to May 17th, and then again to June 7th. Meanwhile, the OSCE is signing an agreement on principles for early elections in those municipalities. A census was conducted with numerous irregularities. False identification documents were used when listing the Albanian ethnic community or are listed without these documents, persons who have permanently moved out or never lived there have been enrolled. We also had some paradoxical situations that several dozen family members were recorded in a small space, which actually changed the ethnic structure of the population in these municipalities, of course, to the detriment of Serbs and Roma. The state has not responded adequately and the bad consequences will yet be seen. I sincerely hope that these harmful moves by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the irregularities that took place in the three municipalities mentioned during the census will not have bad consequences for the citizens of these three municipalities. When it comes to the content of the law, I must make more concrete objections to the draft law on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. First, the way the council members are elected by municipalities; we Socialists believe, since the local level is the second type of relationship compared to the state level when it comes to voter relationship and its representatives, that this level is more appropriate for the majority choice of committees compared to proportional. The majority way of the election allows for a direct link and the proximity of the candidates for the committee with the citizens who vote. The citizens are then in a position to get to know the candidates well and their qualities or flaws, to know exactly who and why they vote for. The elected council member is responsible for the voters of the constituency and is more in a position to engage in addressing specific local issues of the environment where he was elected. Secondly, when it comes to the number of signatures needed to surrender and declare electoral lists of political parties, coalitions and other political organisations: if 30 voters are required for one candidate, it would be logical that the same number of signatures is needed for each of the next candidates. If the parties claim to have candidates in full, i.e. The number of candidates elected, then more signatures should be collected than the other election lists that go to the election with one or less candidates. Thirdly, if a proportional electoral system is applied at local level, as well as at the republican level, then analogy should also be applied to the distribution of mandates belonging to individual election lists. The political party or parties should have all the mandates won in the elections, regardless of the order of candidates on the list. Fourthly, with regard to the censorship of the votes needed to participate in the allocation of parliamentary mandates; the legislator found, in our opinion, a low census that could lead to excessive fragmentation of the local self-government assembly, to make it difficult to form a congregation majority, and thus to question the functioning of the assembly and local self-government in general. The 5% censorship, proposed by the Socialists, would ensure that those political groups that enjoy the most relevant support of the total electoral body in the municipality are found in the municipality. Another thing about censorship, related to the allocation of mandates -- the pre-election coalitions of small parties, which are without significant influence among citizens, are in a privileged position, as more independent political entities must meet the same censorship for participating in the allocation of mandates, as well as political parties or groups of citizens who perform on their own. We therefore believe that it would be necessary for the coalition lists to reach their number of votes in double the amount of the bill provided for by the electoral censorship, in order to participate in the allocation of the mandate for the committees. Fifthly, about the number of signatures needed for the municipal president, i.e. the mayor; I think a special censorship should be set, i.e. the number of signatures needed when it comes to cities, especially Belgrade. The local self-government in Serbia has one mark, that there are municipalities from several thousand to 1.3 million voters, as is the case with Belgrade. The number of signatures foreseen by the law, at least when it comes to Belgrade, can be a problem, so a special solution should be made. Also, the law does not specify whether a simple or qualified majority is required to elect a mayor. I think it can be fixed absolutely. The SPS parliamentary group submitted a number of amendments not only on the issues I mentioned, but also on legal-technical actions related to local elections. We believe that these amendments should be accepted because they improve the proposed solutions. Since these proposed solutions are not good, we Socialists will vote against the bill in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21918	The word is made by a representative of the proposing, Mr Nebojsa Covic, vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21919	Just a few answers to the president of the Socialist parliamentary group. First, the municipalities of Preshevo, Bujanovac and Bear are not dissolved. If there was any intention of disbanding them, there is. That they will be disbanded, they will be disbanded; but they are not disbanded. They're not disbanded now. When it will be -- probably June 14th, so we can inform the public correctly. As for the OSCE agreement and numerous irregularities during the census, we have recorded all irregularities that have been and under these irregularities are being controlled and cleared of all other data. That there have been harmful moves by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I agree, but not by these governments, but by the previous. We inherited the situation in space, for example, the Bujanovac municipality, where we had 41 electoral units, 27 of which belonged to Serbs, 12 Albanians and two Roma. In those 27 electoral units where the majority were Serbs, we had election units where the council was elected with 200 to 400 voters. In those 12 Albanian, the committee was elected from 900 to 1,300 voters. I'm sorry, but that can't go away. We inherited it, let's not say it from you, but it's a previous solution. As for the three percent censorship, I think that suits all of you. As far as the simple majority is concerned, wherever you don't say it explicitly, you mean the simple majority. I've told you everything else. There was no change in ethnic structure. To remind you of the electoral lists we inherited, since Bujanovac is the most sensitive -- 52% are Albanians, 35.09% are Serbs in the electoral lists we inherited. I think there's going to be some movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21920	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21921	As the people say, "If a goat lies, the horn doesn't lie." This is a decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia, published in Official Messenger, number 10, since 1 March 2002. "According to Articles 213, paragraphs 1 and 2. The Law on Local Self-Government (the law that is non-democratic, anachron) makes a decision on the disbanding of the Bujanovac Municipality Assembly and the education of the Bujanovac Municipal Council." That's what it says about Bear and Preshevo. It's said, "It's disbanding in advance." A miracle of one of the government's efficiency. As far as the list is concerned, I said, and I'm staying on that there have been a number of irregularities. If there were irregularities, it was written to us by people who live and work downstairs and are familiar with it. For example, 100 married couples are listed on the list, and 1,200 adult children are listed. Three percent of the dead were enrolled. A dramatic example is that a family reported 48 members and lives in a 45 - square - square apartment. I have said and I remain in the hope that these irregularities are corrected and that they will not be at the expense of any ethnic community, because it is necessary to know who lives and who works, and that voters should trust those who think they are the best of quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21922	The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nebojsa Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21923	Mr. Obradovic, what you read, that's true, you just forgot one thing - the government of the Republic of Serbia was sitting today, June 6th, and tomorrow you'll read new information, and you've had a chance to tell you earlier. As for the irregularities related to the list, I can see that you're thrilled with the decision, which makes me happy. There have been irregularities, however, all irregularities are being removed. There were irregularities, for example. that one whole village, 160 and something listed, all have the same home number, and none of them corresponds to the home number, which is amazing, is not responding to anyone in the territory of the Republic of Serbia either. Now we could say that, but what's our job, it's to remove all these irregularities, and it's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21924	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up? No, I don't. ) We continue to discuss the proposal for a law on local elections, according to MPs for the word. The word has a folk MP, Teodora Vlahovic, from the parliamentary group Reformists Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21925	I appreciate the importance of supporting the Bill on Local Elections because of the fact that it introduces a highly proportionate system, which is much fairer and more consistent in expressing the will of voters. I would also say that this law much more respects the electoral right, both passive and active voting rights, because there are no restrictions that would rule out a single part of the voter's right. When it comes to passive voting law, the solution so far had a provision, practically anti-constitutional, which directly coincided with the provision of freedom of movement and residence of citizens. We know that there is a provision that that candidate voter, and in fact, every candidate voter, must be settled and has a residence in a particular local community for at least six months. Also recently, electoral practice and election laws have introduced new provisions that have directly violated constitutional rights. So an active electoral right has been denied, as it is not possible for citizens to vote at all if they are prevented from coming to the polls. This is the case with the Republic Law on the selection of MPs: who cannot approach the vote in the polling post, it cannot vote; it is directly contrary to the freedom and electoral law that the Constitution guarantees. I appreciate that this law, in addition to having been consistently implemented by the constitution, is good and because it has set a lower censorship. The 3% censorship is much better than the one in our electoral laws that predict a proportional system. I think this is much better for proposings such as citizens' groups, and also to respect the specificities and needs of multinational environments. The lack in this proposal has been removed by the government by its amendment to Article 20 - introduces a mechanism that corrects the long - term injustice, which is more equal representation of members of both genders on the lists. The speaker was told that the government's amendment, as well as the amendments of the MPs referring to this matter, is not legally possible because they are allegedly anti-constitutional. Let's remind ourselves together what the Constitution says about it. I do not dispute the discussion of my fellow Members, the MPs, who claimed that the Constitution guarantees equal rights, regardless of gender. That's right. But also, by looking at the same Constitution, the Republic of Serbia, we cannot argue that it is precisely possible for the law to prescribe ways of achieving individual freedoms and rights, when necessary to achieve them. What else is the Government's amendment, or what are the other amendments to the MPs, who have proposed that so-called introduction be introduced. popular quotas, i.e. to allow more equal representation of genders on the electoral lists. It's exactly the way or the mechanism to better achieve the Constitution guaranteed rights, regardless of gender. That's the first part I've talked about-- prescribing the way. The second part is - when is it necessary to achieve them? And that is how it is necessary to prescribe a mechanism for their achievement, says our current practice: the best gender representation, of all the congregations in Serbia, has this home, and we, the woman in this Parliament, are not even close to 15%. We're still a long way from that number. When we look at local community congregations, one has 10% of women, and all others are below that percentage. At the same time, we should take a good look at what the public opinion polls say about this -- respondents from both genders say that few women are in public office, especially in parliament, and they also feel that women are unequal when it comes to choosing these functions. He believes that even in other areas, the Constitution does not fully guarantee gender equality, but the highest percentage of respondents consider that at least women are equal when it comes to such a kind of political freedom. So if we removed the dilemma and saw it wasn't a legal question, then it remains a matter of personal prejudice or a political question. A party that cannot provide a minimum of 30% of women on its list, has no legal but political problem. And there's something else I'd like to say to my distinguished colleagues, respecting this home and all my colleagues, at least it's incorrect to say that a woman is not on election lists because women don't want it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21926	I thank the People's MP. Does MP Zoran Cirkovic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, apply for a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21927	Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in half of February of the month we passed the Law on Local Self-Government, which was not complete because of the lack of electoral matter; therefore, those provisions of the law that define the way the local government representatives were elected in our local self-government. This bill is well-innovated because for the first time in the local elections in Serbia, a proportional system is applied; and secondly, a purely proportional system; it is something fairer than that applied in Dont's scale. This Hayr-Nimayer method of assigning the mandates received is actually more realistic. However, I am sorry that the Legislative Committee has not heard that those amendments, which are more precisely defined by the members of 40.41 and 42, or the clauses under which the mandates are assigned, are adopted. Furthermore, I'm going to point out what inaccuracies these are; simply, there's some terminology that's not arithmetic; this is about simple arithmetical terminology. You can't say -- most of the fraction, and -- the smaller part of the fraction. Believe me, it doesn't mean anything. Children in elementary school learn fractions, and if you asked them, what's the bigger part, and what's smaller, they'd be confused. Of course, I understand what the legislator was trying to say. He was actually going to say, the whole part and the decimal part of the amount he got. But why didn't he say so? I expected Mr. Covic, who is an engineer and who simply knows these things, to have been able to fix it; I am sorry that Mr. Covic was not present at the Committee's session to apply for my amendment, because he removes those inaccuracies. Therefore, the number of mandates received is determined on the basis of the results in the K times L divided by S; K is the total parliamentary quota, which the local assembly chooses;L is the number of votes that support a certain electoral list, that is the number of votes that voted for that list; S is the total number of votes that are received when all votes of the electoral lists, which have crossed the censor's list, are collected. Furthermore, if the votes of those parliamentary electoral lists that have not met the census do not participate in the allocation of mandates, they simply do not participate in that S collection, in Article 42, where I have proposed an amendment and remain inaccuracy, so that, minority, these votes will participate even though they do not determine the mandates. I indexed the election lists according to the adoption order: List - L1 means first reported, L2, L3. What does that mean? It is a great relief to our electoral committees; there is no need to write large records, they will only determine the number of votes received by the L1 list will determine the total number of valid ballots, that is S, and simply: the number of mandates We any list is directly proportional to the number of votes of those who supported that list. That thing was really clear. 26 years ago, I was in the army, related. We had some American devices called Angrc 9. The frequencies were given there, but of course they weren't given exactly. We were obliged to perform a certain calibration. In the army, remember, I think there's a rule of service now. And these members of 40, 41 and 42 are written as a rule of service. It's written for use, so an ordinary man can understand. However, members of the electoral committees do not have to be uneducated people, and in principle they will not be. There will be people who know how to count with fractions, to divide numbers, and even if they don't know it, it's enough to use a simple calculator to get results. So precision was really necessary. Another inaccuracy has been subdued. If we have indeed established that in the event that two candidates for mayor have the same number of votes, the truth is that such a possibility is theoretical, but it is evident, it can happen, then we say - both candidates in the second round are equally performing and no one is disqualified. But such an option is not a law in Article 41 provided for in the event that the two electoral lists have the same voter support. Two electoral lists, with the same voter support, have the same whole and decimal part. If decimals are the same, then the advantage is that list that has a larger whole part; if both the whole and the decimal parts are the same, inaccuracy remains, which the legislator simply did not predict. But I predicted it. Unfortunately, that request was rejected. If such a case happens, then the electoral committees, or the municipal electoral commissions, will be concerned about how they will solve the problem. Another inaccuracy -- it is also said of the possibility, which is theoretically, that a certain electoral list, for example, will win more mandates than the candidate predicted. Then the legislator says that these mandates belong to a list that has the largest amount. It's not fair again, although that possibility really falls within the sphere of theory he didn't justify. It is fair to treat these remaining mandates as well as the remaining mandates belonging to those remains of decimal parts. You know, when you add up all these sizes we, the whole bits, you get the first distribution; the second distribution -- that's the sum of those decimals, which gives you the number of remaining terms. This gathering of remaining mandates should eventually be joined by those mandates for lists that did not provide for the possibility of winning more candidates. Of course, I say, it will be a theoretical thing, but the law must be precise and consistent. To finish the story of the rule of service; and then as a mathematician, I'm quite average, no special sense was needed for that, I told my captain -- well, you know, Captain, it's a linear interpolation: take two numbers, two other numbers, then divide, and multiply by some difference; but let's write it nicely in the formula. But he says it doesn't say that as a rule of service. I'm saying great, it doesn't say, but we'll see if it works. When he saw it work, he said, "Uh, so you're a scary guy," and so he rewarded me with seven days. You're not going to reward me like that, you're just not going to accept the amendments that I'm fixing. Here, the captain's got it. I hope the MPs understand that, too. In defense of the amendments, I will come up with a similar argument and remind you of this story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21928	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Lukic of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group, and the next reported is MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic from the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21929	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I will briefly address the discussion of the previous speaker. It is this discussion that shows how absurd a solution it is in the Rules of Procedure of this assembly that the discussion of one law lasts for our assembly group for 16 minutes, because this law, no matter how technical it is, how precise it is, still requires some clarifications. It would certainly take a lot more time to process each of these topics in a quality way. We're actually forced to fight time. And on the other hand, this bill shows once again the government's relationship to this assembly, i.e. a slight lack of respect for this home, given the reasons given. In fact, the explanation is a brief persuasion of parts of the text of the law, and we normally all know that we read the law and we needed the word - the explanation correctly understood and presented the reasons for individual solutions. For example, the reasons why a pro-proportional system is applied, and we all understand what a proportional system is, but we should say why it is better than the majority system, in which part, which citizens will be favored and which parties they will gain and which ones they lose. It seems to me that already in the people, and the people are following our meetings, slowly implementing the opinion that this system can also cause the opposite effect, so some places will never have committees again, and that will be the privilege of a certain elite. One very important question is an emergency procedure. We are not sufficiently justified by the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government by an emergency procedure, but only now has we not had the slightest reason why this law is adopted by emergency procedure. In fact, the Law on Local Self-Government provides that this law will apply only to subsequent regular elections, and now we have a situation, which is both technical and professional, that this law actually changes the Law on Local Self-Government; Article 65 of this Law actually changes the content of the second legal text. That's really inadmissible. When it comes to election committees, elections for president of the assembly, perhaps this is just an opportunity to briefly remind ourselves that these people who are elected to these functions will now have much greater authority and many of this seems tempting, but we must remind ourselves that they will have much greater obligations, and especially responsibilities. These people will be responsible for the functioning of local self-government, there will be no more opportunities for ministers and government to take on every little thing, but it will probably be more and more often the answer -- sort it out yourself at the bar. So those people who get into all this must take it seriously and responsibly. One more thing - certainly there is a need to discuss the election, not only in these three municipalities, but also in many municipalities in Serbia, given: the state of local self-government, how local self-government function, on the paralysis of many authorities, on the paralysis of the work of the municipality, the executive boards; and you all know very well that the reasons for the current conflict between DOS parties, i.e. between the DSS and the rest of DOS. Therefore, I think the president of the assembly will have to take the pen seriously and start signing decisions on calling local elections across Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21930	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21931	A short time ago, the deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group cited a number of mathematical objections. I don't think it's bad for the Legislative Committee to look at it at this session at 18 hours, I think it makes sense what you were saying, at least let my engineering logic tell me that there are a lot of things we could add. I owe some more arguments, just for a little while; as far as the municipalities where we now have a temporary administration in accordance with this law, there will be elections called there, and whether there will be any councilors or not, that depends on the parties that propose. You're trying to keep all the seats on board. The state of local self-government; you yourself said we had problems and that's one of the reasons for the emergency procedure. Finally, there was a discussion about the number of signatures, for one 30 and 200, if it's on the list 41 or 45, full list for the council, then it's 30 each, but if you have three on the list, then it can't be less than 200 and that's how it should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21932	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, the DSS parliamentary group, and the following is the MP Radojko Petric, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21933	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Republic Government, it is a great pleasure to see a segment of the DOS's long-election promises come true after a year and a half. What I have in my hand are the conclusions of the round table DOS since 14 October 1999, where we have made the exact demands of the electoral system. Fortunately, most of what is contained here, at least in terms of proportionality in this law on local elections, is fulfilled, and something is, therefore, reduced the percentage, or the censorship that was then in force, which we asked for; then it was 4%, and now it's 3%. But in the end, for a country that just creates, which needs to create quality political institutions, it's better to be a lower censorship and it's better to be a stronger degree of proportionality. Why, at this point, why should it need to be brought not at this moment, but much, much earlier, passed such a law and why should it be supported by a proportionate electoral system at all levels, even at local level? And if, I suppose, most of you, agree with one new observation, which is that for the municipal elections, therefore for local elections is a more representative majority electoral system, but for countries that have more developed political institutions, which have a parliamentary democracy greater and longer years, that is, for decades and centuries than we have. This is, among other things, one kind of controversy that we opened yesterday for the amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure on our work, and in fact the whole point of the story is what our institutions should be and what they should precede. Political institutions, their change, so reform and systemic reform of political institutions create a climate, i.e. an environment for the change of the economic system, thus creating a modern, dynamic, marketable, or capitalist society. At this point, therefore, it is impossible to accomplish all of this across the line. It is simple and clear that the first thing to be taken into account is the change of political institutions, and in order to get representative political institutions, i.e. as a society that is in transition would come to the real representation of the will of the electoral body, regardless of the differences that exist in it, the proportional system is indeed ideal at this point. Therefore, at all levels of Serbia, hopefully the future federal state, the proportional electoral system should be maintained for at least the next 10 years, and in this respect, a proportionate electoral system for local elections is necessary to hold at least one to 10 years, that is, until several electoral rounds pass. Why? It is true that the majority system brings a more stable government, brings a safer and more stable majority government, but it is also a fact that a proportionate electoral system brings a kind of consensus, proportionality, equality among participants in a political match. It is for societies, I say, which are in transition, and especially for heterogeneous societies such as Serbia, of exceptional importance. Therefore, it is of paramount importance that representatives of all political options, all ethnic, religious, or confessional groups, of all standing structures be represented in both local and national parliaments. Only in this way is all existing conflicts and all existing tensions in society itself can be calmed down, analised and created a kind of environment necessary for further and much more structural reform; and as we said, this is primarily economic and judicial, so reform of other segments of government. For these reasons, the proportional electoral system indeed for Serbia today, from national to local level, is necessary and important. When I say that, I have to point out, this is a thing that shouldn't be a kind of party, so to speak, conflict. The democratic party to Serbia, to which I belong, that she wanted to look at her scrawny interests, at this point at the local level was far more suited to the two-round majority system, because the biggest energy of the vote, according to all the analyses, belongs to our candidates in the second round; if we wanted a proportional system, then we could look for mandates that count on Dont's system. We agree and accept that even at the local level, there is a proportionate electoral system, with Nimajer's reckoning of mandates, for one simple reason that at this time it is not as much of a party interest of the Democratic Party of Serbia, as much as the interest of future institutions and future Serbian society. It is vital that we get the stable and mature society that we all seek, in which those who are in power will vote for those laws that will suit them when they are in opposition. So to the Serbian society at this point, for a longer period of time, this kind of electoral law suits us, and it should exist and therefore is good. This law, of course, has some faults of its own, but it will be spoken of by my colleagues. What's the point at the end? The whole point of the story is - why is the election law passed? Because of the choice. I'm going back to a very important segment, which is that for transition societies is a false dilemma: elections or reforms. Reforms in transition societies do not stop by elections. On the contrary, in order to strengthen institutions, more election cycles are needed to strengthen the representative will of Serbian citizens. Why am I saying this? The only country in transition whose government has had all four years of full mandate since the fall of the authoritative system is Romania: it is today the worst country in transition. You want a different example, so we don't just stick to Eastern European countries? We will give some more examples; Italy changed the government on average to six months after World War II, and it had an average of two years, but it did not prevent the country from participating in economic and judicial reforms as well. The political system does not violate the elections it only strengthens; in this way we will get as many representative representatives as possible in the people and open a serious political match, where they will all...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21934	Mr. Dobrosavljevic, I warn you on the subject of the agenda. It's a bill on local elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21935	I agree, but local elections are now about the election. Just for the end, once again, the point of the whole story is in this: elections with such an electoral system, which allow us to simply create a representative political system in which everyone will be able to participate equally, that competitors offer their product, programming, personal, methodological, whatever you want, and that we will in one way educate our society and our political system.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21936	The word has been made by MP Radojko Petric, of the SPS parliamentary group, and the following is the MP and vice-president of the Assembly of Rodoljub Sabic, the MP group DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21937	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as we have already met, this extraordinary meeting of the Assembly is scheduled at the request of the Government. In addition to considering amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the key item of the agenda of this extraordinary session is the proposal for a law on local elections. On a proposal from the Government, this law is adopted by an urgent procedure. Is there any reasonable reason for this law to be passed at an emergency session and by an emergency procedure? The relevant Rules of Procedure have been regulated that the law can be exceptionally adopted by an emergency procedure and in that sense I quote the views of Articles 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure -- "Only a law governing issues and relations can be passed following circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. In writing, the legislator is obliged to state in the written explanation of the bill the adverse consequences that would result from the failure to pass this law by an urgent procedure." The proposed law, for which the Government requests an emergency procedure, does not state any intended reason to justify the necessity of its adoption by an emergency procedure. When it comes to the Law on Local Self-Government, it was normal to work in parallel with this law on local elections. As soon as the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, which was on 14 February this year, the bill was to be referred to the first regular session of the Assembly, which was scheduled on 27 March this year. If the Republic government were well organized and efficient, as it wants to be introduced to the public, it would have done so. The urgency of the procedure cannot be initiated under any of the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Obviously, it is not about circumstances that could not be predicted; it is not about any consequences for the life and health of people, nor about the safety of a country that would justify the urgency of such an act. The DOS may have correctly realised that the only way out of the current parliamentary crisis is to discuss emergency elections at all levels. If that's the case and that's the reason, then that's a good thing. The Socialist Party has long advocated an emergency election at all levels, and we will support that with all our heart. If the DOS is also defined, it should also be publicly said to bring relief to Serbian citizens, to make sure they are looking for a way out of such a complicated situation. However, there are many reasons for doubt. It is known that elections are not held in July and August. It could have waited for the law to be passed in June on a regular basis, not an emergency procedure. Does the government want to present to this the Kobajagi are doing something, even emergency and emergency? Are these citizens, in fact, deterred from the basic problems that are present in the country? What about the constant announcement of reform laws? Obviously, this government does not treat the area of economy and the social status of citizens and does not take the decision to make it a priority and in the right way. What does the government do to stop the decline in production? The domestic factories are closing massively and the workers are fired. The external trade deficit is constantly increasing. This is how about the election; so we could solve something more important than we're dealing with right now. Export coverage in the past year was only 39.3%, and in the first three months of this year the coverage dropped to 35.3%. This defeating results in trade with the world in Serbia have never been recorded. Who later will be able to pay this debt burden? It is not disputed that the law on local elections should be passed. The objection is justified as to why it was not brought during the regular session of the Assembly and in the regular procedure. At an emergency session, an emergency procedure should address other, much more important issues for citizens' lives. Compared to the current legislative provisions on local elections, the main newspaper, as we have heard, is that the election of committees is proposed to take place in proportion to the same and in the municipality as a single constituency. Is the proportional system good for selecting a councilman? I'm sure he didn't. In the first row, it will be hit by rural areas. A good farmer, a respected host and a man of action, more or less, is known only in his and neighbouring villages. It's rare that any of them are known at the level of the entire community. With that in mind, the political parties will put a few of these on the committee list. They will go to more famous people, heard by all the citizens in the municipality, to get as many votes as possible. Who, in that case, will be the problem of the village, and who will advocate solving local problems? If the government wants to leave the majority system, why not propose someone for all acceptable solutions, even if it is a transitional solution, which will be chosen by the committees in part by the proportional and part by the majority system, for example to be 50:50%. That's easy to implement. This system of choices applies in several countries and so on. Belgian system. The combined system for selecting committees is undoubtedly justified for most Serbian citizens and should therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21938	The word is from MP Rodoljub Sabic, a member of the DOS parliamentary group. Next reported is MP Adam Urosevic, a member of the Soviet Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21939	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law on local elections, and I think that any benevolent or correct, but at first glance and first reading, can conclude that we are actually faced with one quite solid legal project. So it's a good, correct, liquid normative term, correct use of standards, good internal systems and logic, and the structure of the law covers everything that such a law, which should regulate local elections - and that specific local elections with two models: one for the mayor, and the other for the local community assembly - knows. In addition, it can also be added that the law is high quality given the good, correct, well-produced choice of models. The law is defined for a system of proportionate representation, for a proportional system, which is good for reasons that I would not particularly like to say, because they are already mentioned. In the context of such a commitment to a system of mutual representation, it chooses one of the most honest formulas to divide the mandate - Hareovo or Hare-Nimayerov - one that really pursues proportionality. In doing so, the law chooses a fair, realistic 3% census quota, and there I would, adding that in an appropriate and adequate way, it also treats other issues of choice, protection of rights, impeachment, termination of the term of office, etc., completes the observation. In one word, it's certainly a text that deserves the principle of support of every benevolent. But when we talk about one law, then of course we look at it from the point of view of some specific, programming definitions of each political party. My Social Democratic Party had a serious reserve against the bill; it concerns the fact that, although in many ways good, the law does not treat one of our very important issues: it is actually a matter of achieving the constitutional principle of gender equality in all spheres of life, especially in the political sphere. We, as a party who insists carefully on this principle, which is considered one of its fundamental programme definitions, have tried to intervene in the text of the law with appropriate amendments. Before I present the content of the amendments, I must say that it was specific that, in an attempt to integrate that amendment into the text of the law, we faced two conflicting positions: on the one hand, with the position of a group of esteemed DSS MPs from this assembly, who came out with the notion that what we want is unconstitutional, contrary to the Constitution; on the other hand, with the view of the Government, which I will later comment on. So, first of all, it's about unconstitutionalness. It is impossible, gentlemen, to treat any constitutional principle as something abstract, which does not have a permanent real relationship with life. When a nation or one state raises the principle of equality at the level of constitutional principles, then it means that this people and that state want to do so. Gentlemen, I'll remind you, in the parliamentary elections for the most relevant representative body of this country, this body I speak to today, in 1997, was elected to the MPs by over 6% of women. It was a shameful historical result. In 2000, the big DOS victory barely improved the situation slightly to over 10%. I'll tell you, that 10%, even though it's an important improvement compared to something over 6%, is below, for example, the African average, below the Asian average, below the Pacific average, not to mention Scandinavian or some other countries. So, if a nation wants to achieve gender equality, even in the political sphere, and notices that this achievement is obviously not happening to it, then the government of that country and that people intervenes with the law, creating some incentive criteria for achieving the constitutional principle, without jeopardising anyone's rights and without prejudice to equality. The amendment we proposed did not actually speak about women's rights: it spoke about equality and the rights of less represented. He used strict constitutional terminology. So much for the problems of constitutionality or unconstitutionality, the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party MPs. As for the problem the government had with our proposal, it comes down to the fact that the government first assessed the amendment of the Social Democratic Party's MPs as legally unfounded; about the same way that I was just commenting on the views of some MPs. But then on the same day, he proposed a virtually identical amendment. I must say that I do not find it correct and that this is not good, because it raises suspicion that even within the parliamentary majority, which it supports, there are MPs whose amendments are accepted and MPs whose amendments are not accepted. On the side of that; we are not vain people and I repeat: we remain on our amendment. We invite the MPs of this assembly to support him. If, for any reason, they do not want to support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party MPs, we call on them to support the amendment that the Government itself has put on the text of its proposal; because it is good, because it is useful, because it contributes to the achievement of civilization principles; because it may soon be a standard whose achievement will also be sought by the international community for our further inclusion in the integration processes that we are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21940	The People's MP Adam Urosevic, an MP for the Soviet group, has the word. The following has been reported by MP Bojana Aleksic of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21941	Thank you very much. Dear Presidency, brothers and sisters of Serbs, respected representatives of national minorities and ethnicities, allow me to refer with a few sentences to the procedure for adopting this law on local elections. The Soviet Parliament group does not see the reasons behind the bill's proposal to consider the local elections law at an emergency session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under urgent procedure. Article 158 of the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that an emergency law can be passed if it regulates issues and relations arising from circumstances that could not be foreseen, while the adoption of laws by emergency procedure could result in adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. In Article 158, point 2 of the same article, it is said - the legislator undertakes to state, in a written explanation, the adverse consequences that would arise as a result of the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. In a concrete case, the government proposes that this law be adopted by emergency procedure "as time flows from the day of entry into force of the Law on Local Self-Government and the need for urgent regulation of the continental system of local self-government". This kind of formulated reason for an emergency procedure is really inconclusive. We are left with the assumption that the reason for the elections in southern Serbia is and that this law has a one-time application. Speaking of this part of our territory, I believe that this law should have expressed the desire to regulate and determine the overall system of local self-government and to preserve Serbia's integrity, noting that this law also applies to the currently occupied territory of Cosmeta, Kosovo and Metohija, since the end of KFOR and UNMIK's mandate. There remains a dilemma whether the validity of this law will be for single use and for a specific territory or whether it will have the character of a finally applicable law for the entire territory of Serbia. As far as the elections are concerned, the harsh reality and the state in which Serbian citizens are located impose the need for elections at all levels and change in the ruling political set. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21942	The word has a folk letter from Bojana Aleksic, followed by the MP Toma Busetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21943	As my DSS colleagues have already said, the DSS parliamentary group will support this bill, not because it was proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but because it belongs to those laws that were just in the pre-election promises of the DOS in 2000. We believe that local elections must be held in proportion to the system at the moment, because it is the only correct and fair way to distribute the mandate, the only fair way to respect the citizens' will in the right way. In the majority system, we have witnessed this since the 1990 elections, we have come to the conclusion that public opinion polls and the overall election results do not match the number of MPs, or council members. For example, we had a situation that only victory was numbered, while the other candidate may have won only two, three, four or five votes less, and his party, if he had lost more such places with a relatively small number of votes, would not have entered parliament at all, or the municipality's assembly. That's good, and, as I said, when we saw this bill we immediately concluded that we should support it. What I personally and primarily female DSS MPs (I will speak on their behalf at this time) cannot agree with is an amendment that was subsequently submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to gender representation on the lists, i.e. on the obligation that each fourth candidate on the list be a member of the second half, or half less represented, as it stands in the amendment to the Government. It's supposed to mean it's women. As my colleague Mamula used to say before me, since he gave an opinion at the Committee session, in our opinion, it is an entirely unconstitutional provision. Why? Because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the equality of all citizens of this country, both by national, religious and by full and by any other belonging. Who came up with the idea - and that idea wasn't new, it began to be pushed by so-called. Women's networks even during the DOS election campaign, in which even then DSS representatives did not want to participate - to discriminate against women. The scariest thing is that women came to that idea alone. Women are citizens of this country just like men. Both women and men can be more or less intelligent, more or less capable of politics, more or less educated. In relation to their education, interest, desires and opportunities, and above all intellectual opportunities to deal with politics, they should be represented in politics. We're witnesses, when we talk about world politics, that we had one Margaret Thatcher someone loved, someone didn't, but no one can argue that she was a great politician, probably much bigger than the largest number of men. Can anyone imagine a Margaret Thatcher entering the 30% quota and women like Margaret Thatcher entering parliaments just because someone has come forward from the assumption that women are stupid, so that someone would provide them with a seat in parliament just because women should give them 30% on the list. Is that even a criterion by which someone should be elected to the lists, and is that the criterion by which political parties should choose their representatives? As a woman, I couldn't say yes, and so could my DSS colleagues, to be MPs or councilmen just because we're women, because first of all we think of ourselves as thinking beings who have the same abilities that men have. I think this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the biggest insult to women at all. When Comrade Tito died, I thought, and others who are primarily considered anti-communists, that the time of the AFJ, the time of great historical characters such as Rosa Luxembourg and Klara Cetkin remain forever to sleep in the dark communist past of our country and in the history of Eastern Europe at all. With this amendment, we are going back to these times, to something that does not exist in any electoral legislation, but that is why it exists in protectorates, because this very European community and the OSCE are asking their protectorates to do so. It is understood that this is what they are looking for in the countries of Asia Minor where women are treated in a completely different way, where women wear wares and where a man can have five, six, and ten women, so it is probably necessary to teach these peoples and modernise them. Do you think that, or does the Government of the Republic of Serbia consider our women to be at that level and that they should remove the fermented and should prescribe quotas so that they can enter parliament? Does this mean that besides women, when the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes the next electoral law, they will also have to propose a certain percentage of miners, metals, young people and, as Comrade Tito would say, "honest intelligence". I was sincerely hoping that time was left for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21944	On the basis of Article 84(2), I am obliged to give information to MPs who do not have them, so that they can carry out their duties. In June 2002, French parliamentarians held elections and, according to the election legislation, each other's candidate on the lists must be the other half. So much for the fact that European legislation has or does not have gender equality. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21945	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can understand that someone doesn't like the government, but I find it hard to understand that because you don't like the government and you don't like the Priory, let's say. I think this is much more than the problem presented in the previous presentation. In view of the insistence on the Constitution and constitutional categories guaranteeing equality, among other things and gender equality, I would like to remind critics of this government's initiatives and initiatives by the Social Democratic Party, which are essentially identical although they are procedurally different, of a very important fact. Elections were held in November 2001 in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in one of its provinces, Kosovo and Metohija. The elections were conducted on the basis of an election programme, an election cycle that was verified by our country. The elections organised for the Kosovo and Metohija parliament in its electoral law, in Article 3, are very precise in determining gender relations as imperative. What kind of republic will we be if, on the one hand, the administrative line applies the principles that we have accepted as a federal state and as a Republic of Serbia, while on the other hand, the elections organised for local self-government do not apply those principles that apply in the elections organised for the province's assembly. I wouldn't go into historical contexts and look for a paradigm in them, caricing into the paradigm of this kind of initiative, but I'll remind you that we're still not as great a society as we might occasionally experience and as we present ourselves. When we look at how active the woman has been and how much she participates in social life or, in our particular sense, in political life, we will see that we are not who we are. We are in the last place in Europe, as an organized country with tradition, except for Moldova. If we were to treat respect for women's rights and respect for women in our society, that relationship would be the other way around. We're probably right on top. When you have such a practice and such a fact, then something that is meant cannot be a crucial argument. Just because it's understood that we treat each other civilizedly, that we respect and respect something that is the norm of civilized life, which is equality, doesn't mean that at every moment and in every place in our country. Just because it is not, we must apply this imperative standard exactly as it was applied, let's say, in basic education, since you, Mrs. Alexic, were engaged in the Ministry of Education, which, among other things, has been proposed by the Law on Fundamental Education which obliges everyone to attend primary school. Is it understood that we want to be an educated nation and that every parent wants to have an educated child? Yes, it does, but there are others who think that something in life can be done without school. Just because there are such paradoxes, we have to apply imperative norms in the law, even though in such a way we would create that picture that may exist in certain environments and in specific cases. We live today in a society whose president's seat is one woman, but this is the first time in the history of our parliamentaryism that has left behind for nearly 200 years. Why did we wait 200 years until that moment? How many women did we have as vice president of the Assembly, how many women were in the position of the Prime Minister of the Republic, how many women did we have who participated in the important state functions in creating state policy and our social environment? Very little. I don't think women should be treated as incompetent and those who are priors unable to provide themselves with such a position, but why would we give someone legal cover to continue with such a kind of practice that is humiliating? That is why, in practical terms and legal terms, because of the standards that we agreed to as a state, we have to decide today whether the Social Democratic Party or the amendment proposed by the Serbian government is acceptable to us? In their essence, both have the same theme. In practice and through principled application, differences are observed that need to be removed, so that there is no misreading and abuse. These differences, in fact, lie in that finding of the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where sanctions are laid down for those who do not comply with the law, very precisely. It is not left for the interpretation of the municipal electoral commission in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji, Black Grass or anywhere, on Vrakar, to interpret whether the law is respected or not, whether something may be or may not have to be. Because of the difference we insist on, we support the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without questioning the amendments to the Social Democratic Party. This does not mean that women are less valuable, but that means that we have to help the female part of our society, which is obviously in depression (not in psychological but functional depression) because of the status it is in. As you said, it is mandatory to go to the first grade of primary school, you also set in Serbia the principles that exist today, even in Kosovo and Metohija. One-third of the women on the election list are not something that will question our system, it's not something that's destructive to women. Finally, they don't have to agree to something like that the moment they refuse to apply. We insist both on the amendment and on this definition, which was previously established through elections held in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21946	There's a word from MP Bojana Aleksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21947	First of all, I must admit that I do not understand this comparison of Mr Jovanovic - the obligation to enroll in the primary school and the obligation to have 30% of the polling lists which is less represented, and these are women, except that it does not say so, but it is understood. Why is elementary school mandatory, I guess we all know that, and I guess we want our people to be written and move forward, in a civilized sense. What does that have to do with 30% of women in parliament, I have to admit I don't understand. Members of the Democratic Party of Serbia agree that the electoral lists for all parliaments, from municipal to federal, are tailored exclusively by the principle of expertise, education, the breadth of interest, honesty, morality, personal abilities, if you will and cunning, because politics and it is the skill of potential, the skills of making compromises, the skills to draw on difficult political opportunities, such as these, the maximum of national interest in a situation where our country is located, in an environment where much does not support it. How do we get out of it, how do we get our country up in the best way, get it back to Europe, where we belong, and not as a patronate, not as a servant, not as a penny, but as a big door back to Europe, as an equal member of the European Union -- that's our goal, and that way we need to make lists. This should include all women and all men who consider themselves capable of such a job. To measure it by percentages and determine percentages, please, for me, it's something that is extremely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21948	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21949	I didn't expect us to run a controversy like this. We (we speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia) have not banned anything, in fact, to stimulate what we think is quality and to comply with European standards. So it's not the idea of a woman's network, it's the idea of the government of the Republic of Serbia; and it's perfectly normal. There's no breach of the Constitution. I don't think it's good, and it gets very dangerous when women start insulting women. We don't think women are stupid and it's not good, believe me, if we don't recognize that individuals (I don't know why) or individuals start talking in the interest of male chauvinism. I accidentally turned around and saw only men applaud, which leads to some conclusions. I know it's hard for us to change, but we're gonna change. We say it can't be less than 30%. Great, so put 70%, so there's no problem. And one more thing, a woman is not an occupation, please. Still on the premises of our country there are still those parts where the women are in the fairies, and I hope you'll understand this very well. Since you, Bojana, said you needed to get out of the Ferreg, and I think you should get out of the Ferreg.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21950	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, the second one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21951	Dear Mrs Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have introduced you as more patient and in the final sense more correct MPs, than the way you are present and present. So, I use my second right, as representative of the DOS parliamentary group, and I won't speak for 10 minutes, since our colleague, Mrs. Alexic, is not a clear example that I used; this is an example that followed your status within the Republic Government, while you were engaged in the Resent Ministry of Education. That's why I used an example of imperative and binding primary education; although, of course, it means that we want to be both educated and cultural states, we're still a country where one third of the population is practically illiterate, in addition to the best wishes of all of us. If we step further into the explanation of what I've mentioned again, sometimes I'm ashamed of those facts and I think they're devastating. I told you we're in the last place organized states are treated by women in their society. I'll tell you two more examples and I won't get into it anymore, because it's really depressing, even for Parliament itself: 92% of the household rights are tied to men, as well as 98% of the ownership rights of motor vehicles, cars. That speaks enough of the treatment of a woman in our society, a treatment that, at least for DOS, is not acceptable. [[Sagar.]] This kind of reputation must be challenged. We dispute it through the application of standard civilised European parliamentary norms. You mentioned Mrs. Thatcher. In England there are these standards. They're even wider in the French Parliament. The European Parliament respects these standards. We said our goal was modern Europe, a community of European countries and peoples. Are we going to step into this world with these facts? We can step forward, but only on condition that we're aware that we want to change that. True, these facts are devastating, but the Republic Government and DOS are changing such a Serbia, because we know that women are worth much more than these facts show and we will insist on this amendment and we will change this attitude through this law to women in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21952	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21953	Dear fellow MPs, considering the Bill on Local Elections and its adoption by emergency procedure, at an extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament, clearly points out that the Serbian government wants possible local elections to distract attention from the dramatic problems that the state and people face these months. This is, above all, the issue of problems in Kosovo and Metohija, where Serbs are exposed to unprecedented terror and persecution. These are problems in the area of social policy, as the Prime Minister said a few weeks ago that there was not enough money for social programmes, and upon coming to power it was clear that there would be money for everyone. Of course, since several hundred thousand workers are to be fired, since there is not enough money, according to the Prime Minister, they will not receive the church of several thousand marks either. Or, when it comes to economic problems that are increasingly pronounced, because industrial production is in decline and factories have so-called shut down, the adoption of this law or any election will not solve all these accumulated problems, although we are absolutely in favour of local elections, because local self-government is also in great chaos. The bill itself has many shortcomings and bad solutions, few of which I will list. The promoter advocates a proportionate electoral system, with a municipality as a single constituency, which is contrary to our clear position - we advocate a majority system, because only by the majority system can the quality of candidates come to the full. For the proportional system, the most important link is the party rating, the party's popularity, which is not disputed. But the majority system is the symbiosis and force of the party and the reputation of the candidate. But it is clear that there are small parties behind this proposal, which are hardly able to find candidates in most local communities. Such parties are also Nebojsa Covic's party, Vladan Batic's party, and it is quite clear that in the villages of Jagodina, Kruševac, as well as Paracina, it is difficult for them to find candidates by 10% if they go through the majority system. For us, it is unacceptable to suggest that the census be 3%, it is already necessary to return to 5%, when it comes to one political party or to raise to some higher percentage, when it comes to the coalition of two or more parties. Census of 3% is another concession to small parties whose membership is so numerous that it mainly consists of members of their families. What results of DOS members from 5 October to today are hardly enough for them. And 3% will be a big bite. Perhaps the right thing to do is to normalise the situation with this law in Serbia when it comes to political parties and bring them down to five to six, how many such significant parties are in the whole world. When it comes to these other details, relating to Article 18, we advocate that the electoral lists of the political party or coalitions must have the signature of support for each candidate, meaning 30 signatures, and not this - 200, that should be deleted. Because who can't collect 30 signatures for every candidate doesn't have to go to the polls. In the end, it is quite certain that this law is passed this way and this procedure to create elections in southern Serbia as soon as possible. It's like someone wants to go to Bujanovac, and maybe even put a new Riza Halimi in Medvedja. And we know very well what it comes to when Albanians take over the governance mechanisms -- there is terror and persecution for Serbs. I don't know now how Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Covic interprets the Albanian flag in Veliko Trnovac and our militia must not even resort there, or Michael Steiner's request to abolish parallel institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Nebojsa Covic is speaking on TV these days that the international community has double standards, double arches. We have spoken for ten years, and Nebojsa Covic has spoken for seven years, but it is obvious that now Nebojsa Covic has changed. And finally about 30% of women and adapting to some European standards -- I think it's a mistake, eventually to accept everything from Europe. It's a huge mistake. These days, the Vice-President of the Federal Government Labus is also talking about the need for structural adjustment. It is a big mistake, because all the countries that applied this structural adjustment process were quickly robbed and exploited. Let me remind you, this is, therefore, ad hoc privatisation, liberalisation of the capital market and market-based price. Everywhere in Eastern Europe where this principle has been represented, there has been a total collapse of both the economy and those countries in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21954	Mr Nebojsa Covic, vice-president of the Republic Government, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21955	Very briefly, I think we have a certain problem: neither is the point of the southern Serbian agenda, nor is it the point of the Kosovo agenda, nor am I the point of the agenda. And if we took a purely hypothetical look at this, if we were at school, you'd get an answer to this, miss the subject, and then sit down, one.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21956	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21957	Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't written any amendments since the amendments here are quite difficult to pass, but I'm going to put a few of my principled objections on this bill. Since the elections exist in general, it has been constantly debated whether the majority or proportional system. More or less, we all know the advantages and disadvantages of each of these systems, so there are countries where the majority system is for selecting MPs, there are countries where the proportional system is and there are countries where the system is mixed, so half of the MPs are chosen according to the proportional system and half per majority. As far as I'm concerned, I've always been, since 1990, when the first multiparty elections, which were by the majority system, were supporters of the majority system at all levels. I'm particularly a supporter of the majority system when it comes to local elections. He wants a citizen when he chooses a councilman to know if that man from his street, from his village, from his local community, or if he doesn't know him at all. As we are likely to adopt a proportional system, citizens will not know who their committees will be, because parties or coalitions will have one list, they will get a number of mandates and the party will determine who these people will be who enter the municipal assembly. I don't think it's good for local government. As for these percentages, first of all one other thing to say -- I don't know when it was introduced, maybe in 1990 when it was the first multiparty elections, that the list should get some kind of support, that they sign citizens to support that list. Please, we didn't do it yesterday. Serbia had until 1918 elections of government and parliament, so the Kingdom of Yugoslavia since 1941 and elections and government and parliaments and so on, and there was no party coming out with its list and seeking the signatures of citizens, or support. It's completely unnecessary. It can only make sense if a list of citizens shows up and then asks if the group really has any support, but when it comes to the parties, what kind of signatures, please. The party is going out with its candidates, and the citizens will say whether the party will get something or not, and especially now, let's say, it's wanted for the president, the mayor's large number of signatures, and why? The party is running for mayoral candidate who will receive or will not win, and especially those who sign the lists as support are not obliged to vote for that list, no one commits them to it. Therefore, I am against collecting signatures for support, unless possible if it is a list of citizens. And now, because it was a very big controversy, so I get involved a little bit, about this percentage -- 30%, the second half, so it's women, that we're not fooling ourselves. I have to tell you, although I don't like to use any very awkward and difficult words -- it seems to me, unfortunately, rather unserious. Look, it's theoretically possible that in some municipality, the party is running for itself on a list or not running for any; here, I'll tell you, we at the Democratic Center have constantly sought to keep our membership at least, if possible, 30% of women. Therefore, let the party take care, if there are enough good candidates, of both genders. What's this about? When the party makes a list, they'll put it on that list of women or men who can attract voters, win votes... Don't throw away, please, have you seen any other people's emissary? There's a drop in the O.R. Don’t, please, throw me away, I’ll be forced to quote you a folk proverb. What a way it is, you keep throwing something away, and I'll finally quote you a folk proverb! Don't throw away what kind of way it is, please! Therefore, the party will make sure to put the best candidates on its list regardless of gender. I would suggest that Mr. Covic withdraw that government amendment, and for that amendment submitted by the Social Democratic Party, we simply won't vote and everything will be fine. In this way, where it is said to be at least 30% of women, it is indeed an interesting requirement that is probably impossible to achieve somewhere for technical, political or other reasons. Let the parties determine for themselves how many women there will be on their lists. Well, that's all I wanted to say about this law and that's my principled objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21958	The word is by MP Toma Busetic, a replica to the presentation of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Neboja Covic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21959	Dear fellow MPs, first of all, is not responsible for Nebojsa Covic assessing the work of MPs. Secondly, the horror of my presentation was related to the proportional system behind the censorship, but Nebojsacovic did not follow. Third, the law will first apply in southern Serbia by electing the mayors Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje, and the effect of Neboja Covic in southern Serbia is a clean unit, such as the effect in Kosovo and Metohija. Today, there are hundreds of times worse in Kosovo and Metohija than in the time of the SPS government; at the time of the SPS government, humanitarian aid was carried, our officials were constantly leaving, and they should not appear in Kosovo and Metohija, and they allegedly have the support of the entire international community. Please, the sanctions haven't been lifted yet, and Bush said he extended them, despite such democracy, besides so much serviality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21960	The word is made by a representative of the motionary, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Covic. I ask the National Assembly that we respect the Businessman and that, regardless of the fact that we are working this afternoon, we listen with respect to the Rules of Procedure and, I suppose, what we know about the way people listen to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21961	The government will not give up this amendment on positive discrimination, and I think one of the speakers just said one of the reasons. For example, if there were 100% female candidates on the list, then we'd have to apply that to men. That's one of the reasons why we can't give up, which is why I'm telling you, because it's fact. As far as this last discussion is concerned, it's over, you've repeated.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21962	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. You have a replica? Excuse me, MP, wait. Replication to the presentation of Deputy Prime Minister Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21963	Mr. Covicu, I said it's theoretically possible to be on the list of 100% women, it's not bad if it's possible. If the party appreciates that there are 100% better women for the list, let them all be there.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21964	The People's MP Dragan Markovic has the word, followed by the MP Vukosav Tomaševic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21965	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last three MPs who discussed it mentioned the percentage of women, and the amendment was given by the Serbian government. We of the Soviet Union believe that 80% of women come to this room to make the laws much smarter and better than you, ladies and gentlemen. That's one thing. Secondly, if the government wants to set an example and get some political point, why not put 30% of women into the government? The government has two women that we from the Soviet Union respect, respect and do the job they get and take care of the citizens of Serbia. But there are those in the government who are neither female nor male and that's the problem. That doesn't apply to you, Mr. Covic, don't look for a replica because you're where men are, and that applies to others. Based on your discussion, I've come to the conclusion that it's the South Serbian elections; in addition, don't tell me I've been repeating the class, this is a one-time law. I don't think it's good. In southern Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, conditions have been created only for Albanians. Everything they asked for, Albanians received from the Serbian government. First they released all of the Shipara, terrorists from Serbian prisons, and we did not ask for Serbs to be released from Albanian documents. The second thing, the Federal Assembly last night amnested all war criminals, those who participated in Cosmet, those who killed the Serb people, and on the other hand send Serbs to The Hague, be careful. Furthermore, 90% of the money is invested in infrastructure in southern Serbia, in a part where Albanians are in the majority. The same thing was done on Cosmet, and we know what happened to us and what the end was like. We called on Serbs to go to the elections in Cosmet, they came out, and to this day they didn't get anything from those Serbs. We want now, through a law that will be passed on Tuesday, to also invite Serbs to go to the elections only in three municipalities, which is not good. Also, Serbs in southern Serbia got nothing, but they got Albanians, because they asked for participation, i.e. to build multiethnic police, where the ratio is 5-1. We are giving them the police, and our police and military are burdening them, and we want to send to The Hague individuals on the list; to remind you that there was a Serb people who defended each other from the Shipara terrorists in Cosmet. We can't agree to that conclusion. As for other things, when it comes to these elections and when we look at the current conditions for southern Serbia, we propose to the Serbian government to call elections throughout Serbia, at a local level, if not for these others. Let that be one test balloon for you, and I'll tell you in advance, that DOS as it is and that it's divided into three or four blocks can't win more than 41%. This means that some opposition party will have to participate in the Serbian government. The party will be the Serbian Unity Party, but will not be with DOS parties that have led Serbia to ruin. Local elections need to be discussed for more than one reason. First of all, in no municipality is the government of DOS, or your coalition. There are interpartisan quarrels inside the party. In particular, there are disputes in Jagodina; I will not mention the parties now, but the arguments are individual. Who's suffering? They're suffering from the citizens. Furthermore, the economy has clearly stopped. They believe they have the result by increasing the price of water 800 times, which has increased the price of services in kindergarten. This is the topic, local elections and municipalities in Serbia. In 1998 and 1999 (I will take as an example Jagodina) the price of kindergarten was 250 dinars, and today it is 1,500 dinars. Workers at the Jagodina cable factory have a salary of 5,400 dinars, and as much as they had in 1999. The price of heating has increased 700 times, although so many donations have come from abroad, mule, oil and what has not come, but local citizens have had to pay for it all. When it comes to pensioners, as the Serbian government decides on them, local self-government can organise some help and give them, but they are not in a situation because the economy has stopped and the municipal budget cannot be filled in any other way than to increase production, however, we do not have production. Kragujevac is a city where local elections will be called, and the topic is local elections. The people of Kragujevac were called citizens and it is a hungry city. Today it's a beggar town. More people are out of work in two years than the last eight years. I'm looking at it from the angle of a businessman and it doesn't matter who the party belongs to anymore. We can talk here about how rich we are, how much better we live -- yes, only the MPs and those who have certain functions, and the citizens of Serbia don't. It's also important to discuss local elections, because now we have students who will finish certain colleges. Where are they going to get a job? What do we tell the new students, the ones who need to go to college now, what's their future when they finish that college? Where are they going to work? That's the question. What's their motive for giving all the classes within the deadline and for that student to cost his parents as little as possible. There's also a problem in Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen, in the cities of Vojvodina. I was the only Chanka, that Jaser Arafat, who supported when he said, whose money was ours. The same question is asked by the citizens of the interior. Agriculture was developed in Vojvodina and, behold, it is now harvested in 20 days, and citizens do not know what the price of grain is. The chairman of the board says that the price of grain will be a dinar higher than it is in the Netherlands, and forgets that in the Netherlands agricultural producers get credit for 10 years to pay the tractor, not as offered by the Minister of Agriculture credit, that our peasants buy the tractor 539, and the interest on the annual level is 980 marks. The question arises - could this agricultural producer pay for a tractor in five years, or only interest to pay. He can't, ladies and gentlemen. The question is, and it's local elections, what about local health care? Hospitals are in catastrophic condition. Hospital directors can't get to the government, and when they go to the president of the municipality, he says, "I can't help you," they're not my agents, and there's no job done. You know, these days, they've been stripped of the right of doctors to issue prescriptions, so the patient goes to a doctor for a checkup and he tells him, "I was banned yesterday by the hospital director from issuing prescriptions, you have to go to my colleague who works tomorrow afternoon." He's back home, and tomorrow he's back at the hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, what about the citizens of Triestenik? There's a "first five-year-old" in Tristenik. You DOS guys laugh, but that's where the citizens first invented street demonstrations in Triestenik. You have forgotten it and you need to take a picture of the town of Triestenik and hang it here, in this congregation, because thanks to them you have received this number of votes and in other cities. It's also, ladies and gentlemen, a problem in Turkey. Why do they need an emergency local election? They're supposed to be in Turkey 'cause there's no water. There's no water, and we're talking now that we're citizens who can live off our work, and what's fundamental to a single household, what Tungusia has, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't have a maritime city that has the best infrastructure and geographical position in Serbia. The question arises why emergency elections at local level should be discussed: for Serbs from Cosmet who have lost help from the Serbian government and who need help from local self-government. Local self-government does not receive citizens from Cosmeta, says there is no time and - go to Mr. Covic; and Mr. Covic is down in southern Serbia and in Cosmeta. He wants to do something, however, as far as we from the Serbian Unity Party could see, there is no support from the Serbian government. He can tell this speaker that he has support, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21966	National MP, the time of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group foreseen for the debate has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21967	In the end, since Milka doesn't throw for the first time, why do I suggest that there are 80% of women in this assembly. Because when it's hard for us and the DOS men propose some laws, they memorize it as a student object, and tomorrow they forget what it's called and what it's called, Milka throws something gentle, to make you laugh, and that at least when you go home you can travel normally and not be burdened. That's why this assembly needs to have 80% of women, and that those who are neither female nor male are kicked out of the government. That's why they need an emergency election.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21968	The Serbian Unity Party has spent the time needed to debate, so the next registered speaker of the parliamentary group does not have time to debate. The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević has the word, and after him, the MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21969	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS, as you have heard from our previous speakers (from the Hall - Theme), has initially supported and will support this law, i.e. this way of regulating the elections in the local. Because we have long advocated that all elections and at all levels in this country are being held in proportion to the system; these are colleagues, particularly colleagues of Dobrosavljević, well and convincingly here. However, we did a very serious analysis of this law. We tried to spot some shortcomings in it and then, through the amendment, to remove them, to correct this law. In that sense, I'm going to make a few notes on these amendments submitted by the DSS. Before that, I think it is important here to remove two political issues related to the adoption of this law. First, we just heard from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister that this is not a single-use law. So, his intention is not only to cover holding elections in three municipalities in southern Serbia, but it's a law that will continue afterwards. In this regard, the duties of the president of this assembly arise. In that sense, I ask you to pass on to the absent president that under this law, as well as under the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, which is still in force, he is obliged to hold elections in several municipalities in Serbia on the day this law takes effect. Under this law, these are the municipalities where we've had municipal councils for a long time. That's what we expect from the president of the assembly. The other thing is, I'm sorry that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister came out again, because this morning one very important question was asked by a colleague of Mamula here, who was to be answered by the government. Unfortunately, by this moment, there was no answer, and this issue concerns these two amendments to gender equality, submitted by a group of Social Democratic Party and Government counterparts. These two amendments are essentially the same, written only linguistically different. Their legal fact is essentially the same. The Social Democratic Party's amendment is in response to the government's response that it cannot be accepted because there is no constitutional and legal basis. Then, it gives the same amendment, with the same legal fact, arguing that it ensures gender equality. I think it would really be our turn to get a response here from the government's representatives: when the government is honest, really when it's honest? Is it when he says this is constitutional or when he says it's unconstitutional? It's very important that we know. And as for the amendments made by the DSS, three amendments of five were adopted; the two governments accepted as we suggested, as our parliamentary group proposed; one after our amendment identical to him, but the third was accepted. Among them is essentially this to Article 50. The bill of law, and I want to draw the attention of the gentlemen here on that amendment, because it removes something that has happened in the past in this country. In the past, whoever was damaged by the election commission's decision to annul the election had no right to appeal to the court. I remind you, in 1996, the SPS stole local elections from the Together Coalition. An amendment to the DSS which excludes this possibility has now been adopted, as in the future whoever is damaged by an unfounded decision of the electoral commission has the right to appeal in a second-degree procedure has the right to appeal to the court which makes the final decision. It's very important that we remove that anomaly of our electoral system. Two more essential amendments, which I would like to draw your attention to, the government unfortunately did not accept, but I hope that most MPs in this assembly will accept them. It concerns members 59 and 62 of this law, and it concerns the election and impeachment of the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor. We just heard from Mr. Vice President that the government is proposing that the president of the municipality, or mayor, be elected under a two-round majority system. It's just so theoretical. This could be the loosest version of the two-circuit system right now. The conditions that determine the two-circular system are simply in the domain of theory, so this is practically a single-circular majority knockout system, which is now valid for the selection of committees. So, the government proposes to elect a candidate who received most of the voters' votes as the president of the municipality. We in our amendment have given one, we think, correct numerical analysis: how it can happen that someone who gets twenty percent of the votes in the municipality becomes mayor. In practice, something far worse can happen; assuming, and it is established, that, in every municipality, we will have a dozen lists, and probably more, if 60% of the people go to elections, so when we divide it into 10 or 15 lists, we will come up with a variant that someone who has 7-8% of the votes can be elected as mayor. For this reason, we at the DSS feel that a censorship should be raised for the mayor's election, given primarily the authority of the mayor of Article 41. The law on local self-government, adopted by this assembly in February. So we suggest that in the first round, the candidate who received most of the votes of voters who went out may be elected, but provided that 50% has come out. Practically, someone who doesn't get a minimum of 25% plus one vote can't be elected. This is very important, because it strengthens the authority and credibility of the municipality's president, especially the mayor of large cities. It's not good for us to have someone with 10, 12 or 15% of the voter's vote in a municipality or city to perform such a significant and so responsible function, with such great powers. There is also an amendment to article 62 that regulates the mayor's impeachment. The government suggests that the mayor has been called off if most of the voters who went to the polls voted for the proposal. Theoretically, in a situation where the motion for impeachment is being launched by the government or the assembly of the municipality, a voter may vote against the mayor and replace him. It is very likely that the mayor can be replaced by a very small percentage of voters. For this reason, the DSS proposes that the mayor be resolved by the procedure under which he is elected; it can be resolved by most voters, but provided that at least 50% of voters come out, i.e. that the mayor can re-solve 25% plus one total voter, as he chooses. I'm asking the government and all of you to consider these two amendments. We believe that they are very important and that their adoption would significantly improve the text of this law. I also call on the government to reconsider our amendments, and even if the government remains in a negative position on this matter, gentlemen MPs, I urge you to adopt these two DSS amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21970	The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, and the next declared word is MP Bratoljub Janackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the course of the debate we have had so far shows that several, in my opinion, very serious and relevant remarks can be made on this bill, especially those coming from the SPS parliamentary group. What do I want to tell you? First, the definition of the SPS is that at this point the conditions for moving to a proportionate electoral system in local self-government have not matured. This would be contrary to what can be heard here in the sense that the political situation, political culture, etc. They're just finding this proportional electoral system. Why am I saying that? I believe we'll all agree on one thing. Local self-government is the most direct aspect of the public’s common interests in the area of one municipality. We are putting a proportional electoral system of citizens in such a situation that they do not essentially decide on their direct representatives in local parliaments, but only give this right to political parties, groups, groups of citizens, coalitions, etc. A very serious issue arises in this regard, and the promoter would have to consider it, and it concerns the great presence of the danger that the village will not be represented at all in the municipalities’ congregations in the future, or local self-government. Practically, there are reasons for this fear that I want as an MP to halve. It is absolutely certain that the highest number of quality, affirmative, influential, professional etc. The personnel of all political parties are located right in the urban areas and that we will thus act as political parties that are rationally considering, given the proportional electoral system, so we will mainly propose people from the city environments. This will completely devastate the possibility of peasants, farmers and people living in the rural area to make their interests come true directly through their representatives, i.e. the committee. You will admit, the village is in such a state that it is truly illusory to expect that people from the city, who are representatives of the local congregation, will take great care of the village rather than the city area. If this were to be added to the fact that the Women's Network is very argumentative, I would say even aggressively, insists that at least one third of the committee candidates be a gentler sex, then I ask you, gentlemen: how much you know your friends from the village who will run for housewives or some other woman in some other capacity on the list of committees. For these reasons, it is quite clear that when we take a step on one side that can seem democratic, which can talk about gender equality, we deny these women the right to participate in governance, because the tradition of our Serbian peasant is not that women represent them in the congregations. I don't mind women, however, I have a lot in their favor, but I'm telling you about our present reality. The next question I warn you about is that these days we are adopting new statutes in our municipalities. Many municipalities have already missed deadlines, as today is the final deadline for the new statute to be adopted, according to the Law on Local Self-Government. The majority of municipalities, where DOS is in power, are going to reduce the number of council members, and thus further narrows citizens' rights to participate directly, given the proportional electoral system, in local self-government and in the exercise of power. If the provision remains that at least one-third of the council members on the list must be elected to municipal assemblies according to order, then we have only come to a rather complicated situation, because assuming that three-thirds of the parliamentary mandates are reached, we do, both practically and politically, may not have women in the congregation or have peasants. In the end, I sincerely hope that Professor Nebojsa Covic will give me a clean unit for this presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21972	The word has a folk MP Bratoljub Janackovic, and the next one registered for the word is Dusan Golubovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21973	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Covic, I welcome you, I suppose that each of us has felt the need for at least once in his life, noting the problems of the local community, to address his elected representative, in this case to the council, but also to ask who he is and whether he is available to us and to the citizens. Maybe you're one of those citizens from some small-town town who has to pay more money on the city bus because they can't buy it on the city transporter's kiosks at a lower price, because those sales places only work from 7:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. and don't work when the traffic frequency might be the densest. A small matter or a skillful provocation for a hidden increase in prices. But whatever. I'm sure it's a job for a good councilman. The previous example is real, but it's not the most important; it can be made up. In any case, such and similar situations in small local communities need to be effectively addressed. Whether the proposed proportional system is the best solution to make the most direct contact with the citizens, we will see. Erem, New Democracy has long been dealing with issues of local self-government and ways that can be achieved by the most efficient electoral model, and all in favour of its majesty - a citizen. We have a booklet, a list of documents that concern local self-government and the model of electoral laws. We from New Democracy are pleased to say today that the Law on Local Self-Government, which was adopted in February, is now giving the right to New Democracy and the solutions that we have proposed at the time, greatly coincide with the government's solutions and the ruling majority. The new democracy has today proposed a few amendments, aware of the risks that they do not have a legal basis in a consistent respect for the proportional electoral system. She risked that she might turn out to be somewhat politically naive, but we consciously entered a small positive provocation, trying to contribute to making this proportional system, which we will adopt today or Tuesday, more effective, better and more accessible to His Majesty a citizen. The essence of our amendments is in the following: they do not change the principle of proportional allocation of mandates; in a single electoral unit, the municipality determines the parts of the election unit of a smaller community, and for these parts the results are shown for each election list. Such a list is made up so that, in addition to each candidate's name, there is a mandatory part of the municipality, i.e. the territory which the candidate should represent. The candidate on the list, in whose part of the municipality's list has won, and if the list has passed the censorship, automatically gets a mandate, regardless of the order on the list proposed by the proposer. That's the essence of our idea. This would, in principle, affirm the importance of political work of candidates, in this case of committees, for working in smaller communities, in direct contact with citizens. Dearly beloved, we know all the advantages and disadvantages of the proportional and majority electoral system, as well as the mixed part of the election. The idea of New Democracy on the correction and way of presenting the results and binding the candidacy on the list for the principle political representation of works of municipalities by politicians i.e. The individual, even when on the collective list, is an expression of our principled need for the national representation to be accessible, directly and recognizable to citizens. There is something important in the need of small community citizens to know and assess their representative, at least in the local community, at the level of local authorities. Hence, and our need to only point directions and dilemmas towards thinking in New Democracy about the further possible future of building up a proportionate electoral system. It is indisputable to take care of the interest and identity of smaller communities, to preserve the individual identity of candidates and to show ourselves as politicians and prove ourselves in smaller local communities. It's hard, it's hard, but it's also responsible. When there's results, there's motive. And, quite in the end -- New Democracy MPs do not dispute the proposed model of a proportional electoral system and will in no case dispute reaching a consensus in Serbia's ruling parliamentary majority and government. The New Democracy MPs will certainly support this model of electoral law, and the amendments we only wanted to do one little provocation to Parliament and government, so that eventually, during the period ahead, we could bring a proportionate electoral system to that level to satisfy the interests of all relevant political forces, i.e. the party that lives and operates on local territory, but that at the same time the committee candidate and the committee who is elected are bound to a specific environment, to a specific place, to a specific problem and that its political success and success of its party depends on the level and quality of solving these problems. So New Democracy MPs will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21974	I thank the People's MP. The word is by MP Dusan Golubovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, putting the draft law on local elections in the assembly procedure is a logical consequence of the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government adopted by this assembly about half of February this year. The two key provisions of the proposal for this law are: firstly, that the selection of committees is carried out under a proportionate system, in the municipality as a single constituency; secondly, that the mayor, i.e. the president of the municipality is elected in direct elections, more specifically, as provided for by this law, by a single-circular majority system. I have to point out that the DSS has submitted an amendment, but then, when it comes to that. I must point out that the DSS, as a large and serious party, advocates a proportional system at the bar, but above all, it is our priority to call both republican and federal elections, of course, related to the Constitutional Charter, when it is done, in order to stop this confusion situation in the country. But I'll go back to the bar, because that's the agenda point. The local electoral system so far has shown many shortcomings, one of which is certainly one of the largest that the committees during their mandate could for certain reasons, and most often it was for personal benefit, without any sanctions to represent the interests of other parties, programmeally diametrically different from their party. In the end, all over Serbia's municipalities, we have such examples. By adopting the proposal for this law, the parties shall have the mandates of their committees. So, only a party, if it assesses that, can replace its committee member and set the other party on its list; that is one of the key advantages proportional to the majority system. Also, the DSS believes it is good that Article 40, item 4, is regulated to include electoral lists that received at least 3% of the total number of voters who voted. I think this percentage is extremely correct, above all towards smaller parties, and it gives them real chances to enter the city's, or municipal parliaments. Of course there is the possibility of electoral coalitions here, first of all with smaller parties, for these parties to pass this censorship. As far as the DSS is concerned, it's all crystal clear. We personally wouldn't mind if this censorship were 5% (and as far as I know, there are quite a few amendments to make it 5%, even bigger) because we are absolutely convinced that we will win a much higher percentage of voters' votes than it is adopted as a minimum of passability to this law. A specific system has been applied to the allocation procedure; it is detailed in Article 41, so as not to repeat it. Otherwise, this is a mathematical model that has already been applied in Serbia's elections, and it has proved to be the most just in the distribution of mandates, as well as the division of winning mandates -- one third in a row on the list, while two-thirds of the list's applicant, means the party -- fully corresponds to DSS positions. The DSS essentially agrees with the proposed Law on Local Elections, but we have submitted five amendments, and that is what my colleague mentioned earlier, in order to repair it in certain segments. This primarily refers to the election and impeachment of the mayor or the president of the municipality. According to the new Law on Local Self-Government, that is, the President of the Municipality is the Executive Authority; therefore, the only executive authority is no longer the Executive Board. By the way, he's got great powers, but he's got great responsibilities. As a result, the adoption of these amendments would create a better system of control of their authority, including their exchangeability. I think the amendments are extremely correct, so I call on the representatives of the government (I think there's only one present here) to think carefully and to adopt them. After all, I must point out that the Justice and Administration Committee has accepted our four key amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21976	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21977	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, at an emergency session and by an emergency procedure, is the proposal for a law on local elections, and should be passed because the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, in February of the month, provides for the selection of the council of the local self-government unit, as well as the president of the municipality, or mayor, to be governed by a special law. The basic provisions of this law, namely Articles 1 to 10, lay down the basic principles for the selection of committees, i.e. the president and mayor, with the choice being made in a proportionate system in the municipality as one electoral unit, which is also the most important difference in the local elections so far. The fact is that this electoral system will suit some political parties and some will not, depending on the middle to the middle. But we Socialists, doing a ten-year majority system, we think he was still better at local level, because citizens knew at the beginning of whom they were assigned, giving their voice to prominent, honest and valuable hosts, workers and farmers. Applying a proportionate electoral system at the local level, the largest number of councils in the congregations will be the leadership of local political parties and coalitions, which will not be good, because the question is how many voters will be, above all, smaller communities, local communities and villages, and advocate solving their local problems, mostly roads, waterways and others. It might be better if the municipality were not one constituency, but two of them -- a city and a village, where a balance of representation would be established in the municipal congregations, or a combined system would be introduced in order to select one half of the committees proportionally and the other majority. But DOS doesn't think much about it. The goal is to remain in power for as long and at all costs, so I should remind myself, by introducing a forced administration in almost all socialist municipalities, where the will of citizens has been annulled in the elections. The passing of this law is a step towards new local elections, where forces in municipalities will first be measured, since DOS has long been inoperative and then at the level of the Republic. The provisions on selecting committees in the members of the proposed law of 11 to 52 contain basic solutions for selecting committees through election lists, where the parties, coalitions, groups of citizens, support their signatures at least 30 voters per candidate proposal, or at least 200 voters per election list; I think it is small and should increase or at least be - 30 voters per proposed candidate on the list. Also, special attention deserves to be given to the election list's mandate, where each election list is scheduled to be the number of seats corresponding to the number of votes received, provided they received at least 3% of the total voters' votes. This percentage, so-called. census, at least 5% should be increased, especially for coalitions where it has to be even bigger. The question is how good it is for a third of the election list to be assigned to candidates in their order, while two-thirds of the mandates received are allocated to the applicant of the electoral list. The provision of criminal provisions for the collection of signatures at workplaces, as well as any type of pressure on citizens to support the electoral list by their signature is fine, but whether it will be applied and whether the penalties are well and legally arranged. In the provisions of the law, Articles 54 to 63, which regulate the election and impeachment of the president of the municipality, contains the principle of applying the provisions of the Law on the election of committees, with the proposal of the president being backed by the signatures of at least 3% of the municipality's voters, which is also small and should be increased to at least 5%, especially in larger cities, because the impeachment requires at least 10% of the voters in the municipality, because it will happen that from a number of candidates, the presidents will be elected with a small number of votes, and they can hardly be replaced because the impeachment requires much more signatures. Here, too, the electoral commission should determine the order on the list of candidates for the president of the municipality in order to accept the proposal, not in alphabetical order, because no one should be favored because of something that belongs to him since birth, but because of the involvement in gathering documents for the pre-election campaign and support of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21978	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milutin Svedovic, and the following is MP Miomir Ilic of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21979	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Covic, Deputy Prime Minister, here to hear objections in principle and to be transferred by the gentlemen who have submitted this bill. Namely, in the third chapter - the election of the president of the municipality - in Article 59. The government has decided that the system that will be applied to elect the president of the municipality will be a majority but in fact a single-circular majority system. That's what we didn't advocate, and it can come to the point of being problematic with the aspect of the legitimacy of the election of the president of the municipality. Actually, I'll give you an example. If five candidates participate in the presidential elections in one municipality, and 60% of voters listed in the vote list, with 10,000 valid votes, and the first candidate gets, say, 2,050 votes, 2,020 votes, the third 1,990 votes, the fourth 1,980 votes and the fifth 1,960 votes, it is clear that the first candidate received 20.5% of the total number of votes in force. If we stick to the assumption that 60% of voters were enrolled in the election, and one small percentage of voters' votes are invalid, it is clear in this case that the first candidate did not get the support of an enviable number of municipal voters, but he managed to win such elections. I won't be long. This lack of a member of the 59th was seen by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and he accepted the amendment to Article 59 of the DSS. I appeal that this law be declared common by this assembly to accept such a report by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21980	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Nesovic, the remaining time of the parliamentary group is 23 minutes, and the next one has been reported as Neda Arneric.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21981	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the presentation of the rapporteur, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Covic, I can express my satisfaction when I heard that this law on local elections applies to the entire Republic of Serbia, not only Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. The draft law on local elections was included in the agenda of this session to be resolved by an emergency procedure. I am confident and expect that an emergency procedure will be followed and elections will be called at all levels in the Republic of Serbia. This should be a key reason for the adoption of this law, not as explained -- that the great flow of time since the adoption of the law on local self-government and that the law on elections in local units should be passed and one continent realised. That's what I'm saying. This law, after the debate, with the amendments that will fix it, is likely to be passed. The current government should indeed call elections at all levels because all opposition parties are asking for it, and so are certain DOS coalition parties. I think that this is a much more celibate solution, that there are no forced decisions in the elections that are inevitable if the government disobeys the growing demands of citizens, opposition parties, and even parties in power to go to elections and stop the collapse of the country; besides, they are pre-election promises of the DOS coalition. As far as the law is concerned, in my opinion, the largest newspaper is the introduction of a proportional system, the election of the president of the municipality, or mayor, of a criminal provision. I'd also like to talk about this proposal for a percentage of the half that's less on the list, and that's probably where the female is meant. First, let me say how I feel about the proportional system. I think that the majority system allows one closer contact between voters and candidates, more direct contact, and that it puts a candidate, and tomorrow a committee or MP, in a completely different position than when the candidate is on the proportional list. I believe that a combined system and part of the committee were to be envisaged to be chosen on the proportional list, and for a part to be a majority list. Now I'd like to say a few words about female candidate percentages on the list. We are all witnesses. We have a lot of statistics that women are more responsible when it comes to children, when it comes to marriage, families, when they're in the car behind the wheel and when they're in the workplace. After all, in the 1960s (probably many of you have read it) at a convention of biologists in London, it was concluded that women are more biologically strong, more resistant and the message is that the hand that swings the cradle should lead the world. When it comes to women, I would always be a supporter to find them as eternally as possible. However, there is a big problem in some areas, so I ask you how will we provide women in Tutin, Sjenica, Novi Pazar? Therefore, I think that here, as Professor Simonovic said, we should find a solution to make the parties the maximum possible to find as many female candidates as possible on the lists. When it comes to a 3% censorship, I think it's very small, it needs to be increased; in this way we would allow local self-governments to have councilors from fewer parties so that we could function better. In the King, where I live and where I was born, since we have committees from 18 parties, we are in a situation where for the third or fourth time in these underages two years, an initiative is being launched to replace the president of the municipality. The city, or municipality, is doing nothing but simply having conversations, persuasions, arrangements for who to vote for. Therefore, less is thought of problems of the economy, unemployment, social problems, and more is thought of in which way and which party should win. And in the end, I don't know if it's an accident that the president of the municipality in the King's ESS is, so the rest of the DOS is trying to get rid of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21982	The word has a folk MP Neda Arneric from the DOS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Joca Arsic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21983	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, the incentive to report to me has sparked a negative stance from some members of the Legislative Committee. So, this time as a total layman, I'm going to stand up to the lawyers, let me apologize, but we've been quoted here by our excellent lawyers, who I very much respect, a constitution where equality is said to be guaranteed. Namely, this whole little speech of mine will refer to that famous theme - women on election lists. The fact is that there is equality on paper and so on, which you would say blah-blah-blah, but in reality that equality definitely doesn't exist. Unfortunately, our country is quite lagging behind, quite primitive, it will take us a long time to reach the level of Europe and other countries that have solved it or solved it in already certain legal or illegal ways. I think it's very good to support the government's proposal and their amendment because I believe that this amendment and that law, to say, are something like a special measure of acceleration of de facto condition, as the lawyers would say, in relation to the de jure state written on paper. So that amendment would simply force all of us to imagine the position and fate of women, especially in the lagging and less developed regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21984	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Joca Arsic, and the following is MP Milka Marinkovic of the DOS parliamentary group. Fifteen minutes left for the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21985	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, in this bill of law that is before us and which we are discussing today, it seems to me that we have begun to apply the new Rules of Procedure because today there are about as many of us in the hall as we need to under the new Rules of Procedure, but that is not a question that I want to discuss. I have several principled objections to this proposed text of the law which is actually one sublimation of all the rules that have regulated the matter of choice, at least when it comes to local self-government. The paper is that it provides for a pure proportional system here, at least as provided for by Article 3 of this law. My proposal differs slightly and goes towards the goal of bringing these two solutions together: the previous, pure majority system and this proposed, which is a purely proportional system. The introduction of a combined system is no news in electoral practice. We often refer here to some European and other solutions, and such solutions already exist in practice. I think they are the most correct (I think these other countries) because they satisfy both sides: the right of voters to choose directly and through the party lists, that is, the list of citizens. On a list that is a party or a list of citizens, the parties have the right to have mandates -- and to have them, primarily satisfying the party oligarchy by procedure and the way they do it. On the other hand, we would satisfy the citizens with half the council members on the direct, or majority list, and we could thus satisfy the right of citizens to have direct representatives in municipalities, or cities. I think that's a more correct solution and I can see that neither the Government nor the Committee have accepted our amendment. We will try, once again, to convince the Assembly when we speak of the amendment, that this solution is accepted. To this end, it's clear who can't be a councilman. This is what I'm saying because so far we've had interpretations from the Justice Department, or the Ministry, who can't be, so we've had different interpretations of the same thing. For example, the council members of the Great Plan were appointed at the same time by the Assembly of the Municipality, as well as the representatives of Raska, where this was happening. It's decidently said here that they can't be, but only one or the other, but since they're this other, then the council has to stop the mandate or get rid of the functions elected by the congregation of the municipalities. I said, the president of the National Assembly is familiar with these different interpretations; there can be no resolution of this problem and there are complete blockades in the work of the Assembly of the Great Plan, so they have failed to adopt the statutes, and after elections are scheduled only for seven electoral units. Furthermore, as far as this proposal on women's representation is concerned, I think we're dealing with demagogue here. First, we proposed an amendment to the government, which is closer to the amendment Mr. Sabic's group gave each fourth to be the second half, and so on and so on until the end of the list, and in the end that the list would not be accepted if there were no 30% of women. This math isn't right. Every fourth is 25%, and the minimum is 30%. Therefore, it should be every third, if desired, or third, and the most strange explanation. The explanation says -- the proposed solution provides for equality between the genders in the process of the allocation of the mandates won in the committee elections. I don't think this finding can be true. How is equality provided if one third of the other side is provided, whether it is male or female?- I'm sorry. There's no equality at all! Equality would be if at least half of them were provided. But in the end, that question doesn't have to be the subject of this law at all. This should not be done with a decree, but should be done in practice and not in this way - to appreciate whether it will bring points to political parties. I would like to conclude with this and pray that these remarks from our parliamentary group are accepted, no matter what the Committee and the Government have not accepted them, and when we discuss the amendments closer and wider, we will explain this.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21986	The word has a folk MP Milka Marinkovic, followed by Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21987	First, I have to express a protest that made it seem like I'm throwing everyone away, and that's not true. I simply react for myself to discussions from the pay phone, because we are not an ulcer that can sit for years, months, days, and not react to someone's discussion, which is simply provocative. The subject is the election law. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues said, but today I'm going to stick to those troubled stories, astounded by how much controversy it caused, how much reaction there was. Maybe I was naive when I was surprised by that, it was about quotas where women should be on election lists. Our male colleagues, and I hear women, that's how they supported it; that's all right, that's all right, but let's do it later, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's just, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's just, uh, let's, let's just, let's, uh, uh, uh, let's just, let's just, uh, let's just, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, let's just, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, let's just, let's just, uh, let, uh, uh, let, let, let, uh, uh, let, let, uh, uh, let, let, let, let, let, uh, let, uh, uh, uh, let, uh, uh, I don't see what the reason is, because it is clear that this amendment cannot be unconstitutional, when it only creates a mechanism that determines the constitutional equality of sex in practice. How can it be unconstitutional? Of course it can't be unconstitutional. I've heard all sorts of reasons why it's not good, and one of the most unsuspecting says there are no women in the field. I don't know where those women are, where they're in the field, when there's 58% of the women in the constituency. They come, they vote and they go, I guess, later on some ground. I was really interested in that field; I didn't know I was the only woman on the field, and we were a few here. Given that the first elections under this law will be in southern Serbia, I have checked the situation with women on the ground and the situation is impressive: the Bujanovac municipality has 41 committee members, which means that at least 10 women candidates should be proposed under this quota, and only the Democratic Party has 91 members in Bujanovac; Presevo has 38 committee members, and nine candidates are required and the Democratic Party has 20 members; there is a weaker situation, but only the Democratic Party has so many members in Presevo; Medvedja has 35 deputies, it takes at least nine candidates, and only the Democratic Party has 67 members. Here are the women, here's the field, what's the problem with choosing? It's like "but" to me -- we're not gonna have women in places to decide. Why won't we? We're not going to because if more women had this assembly and all the places to decide, in the end this country would look quite different -- much better. Women decide more rationally, women are less corrupt by statistics than men and, most importantly, women are far more radical in demand for change; they want change and want them fast, they want them right away. Maybe that's the problem. I apologize to Professor Simonovic, if he's here, I didn't want to throw anything at him, I just reacted to his findings - so the parties will do it themselves! What party did that? Why didn't they do it? We have the Constitution for 100 years, and why wasn't it enough to have equality? The fact is that there is no equality with such a constitution, and the parties will not, because that is where the men decide. So we have to build a legal mechanism that will simply enable women and give them a chance, but what's ugliest is to caricate this idea and turn this story, which is very important, into some AFZ story -- like, we're sitting there, and we're kniting socks for the military, so we're drinking beer in front of the store. It's really nonsense not to talk about, but to enable women, to push them a little; you know, in Serbia everything must be pushed a little bit, and Milosevic we had to push to leave the government, right! It's simple and legal to make them understand that they have these qualities, fellow Bojana, which you were talking about; of course they do, but they should be allowed to realize them. So certainly vote for yourself, that is, for women in places of decision in as large a number as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21988	The word has a folk MP Bojana Alexic, a replica, mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21989	My colleague Milka Marinkovic said something that doesn't really stand. It seeks equality between women and men; this equality the Constitution guarantees - and then this equality manifests in 30% of women on the list. I have to admit that I don't understand it either, because women are equal to men; women are intelligent, women are capable, they're very good at fighting for those rights, and they don't need anyone to give them any additional rights. Women are worth as much as they are worth, they are the bearers of the Serbian family and the foundations of the Serbian family, what they want they are very well able to accomplish. So I agree here with some colleagues that women should do more work, I call on them to do it, but not to deal with the odds and to be assigned quotas as dorks, but to impose their brains and abilities on men.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21990	The People's Messenger Sreten Mitrovic has the word, and the next is Natasa Milojevic's folk letter. The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 10 minutes and has three registered speakers from your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21991	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us another draft law on local elections and after the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, this is another law that only has the following newspaper: the selection of committees instead of the majority is carried out in proportion, and the choice of president, or mayor by the majority system. The virtues, i.e. the advantages and disadvantages of this proposal, we in the SPS will prove through the proposed amendments. I would say that, as laws adopted so far, this law will certainly not apply to Kosovo and Metohija. Given the local problems, I wanted to take advantage of the presence of Deputy Prime Minister and the President of the Coordination Centre and point out some things that today are particularly plagued by representatives of local self-government in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. However, I am sorry, because the Deputy Prime Minister and the President of the Coordination Centre are not there, but he does not want to talk about Kosovo and Metohija today, because he says it is not a topic. Of course, it's not a topic, but we, representatives from Kosovo and Metohija, rarely can come and talk about the problems that pressure this people who remain in Kosovo and Metohija. All MPs from Kosovo and Metohija are seeking to form this famous committee for Kosovo and Metohija, where we might be able to bring out all the problems, not all of them, but partly problems in Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to local self-government, I must say that the current government has double arches in Kosovo and Metohija regarding local self-government. Local self-government officials are at the centre of central Kosovo. All representatives of local self-government who are not in their seats receive social wages. Not all salaries of workers in local self-government are the same. One is the salary in the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica, and the other is the salary in the central part of Kosovo. Why is the rest of the people left in Kosovo shared? Today they called me and every day they call local self-government representatives from the central part, so they ask why the salaries of local self-government workers in Kosovo and Metohija have not been increased, as they have been increased throughout Serbia and in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica! Nothing in improving and improving local self-government by coming DOS to power has been done. It is true that Dragan Markovic, an MP, has not received any humanitarian aid since the arrival of DOS downstairs. I'm calling on the President of the Coordination Centre to deny me if it's not true. (Zeljo Huric, from the place: Is there a war? There is a war, sir, but it moved south to Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija have moved south to Serbia. Nothing was done on a famous return, and gentlemen during the election campaign, you said you would solve the Kosovo problem very quickly and bring back all the displaced. I can tell you what Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said, I don't owe it because I see it's six hours and you're all getting ready to go if we've been "repeated" in Kosovo and Metohija, you gentlemen will be "disfellowshipped". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21992	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as we approach the end of today's work day, and there are three other registered speakers, and possibly, if the presidents of the parliamentary groups would like to take the floor, I suggest we continue the debate until the debate is over in principle. Do you agree to put the motion to a vote, which is 15 to 20 minutes. I am putting the motion to vote to extend the working time until the principle of discussion and decision-making is concluded. For 80, against four, two abstentions, 57 of the 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision to work until the principled search and decision is concluded in principle. The word has a folk MP Natasa Milojevic, followed by MP Bora Drakulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21993	Thank you. Our teams usually carry a victory in the extensions, and since I'm performing in the extension, I think the arguments I'm about to make before the end of the debate on the local election law will be won and won. I thank my colleagues and colleagues who have offered the right argument today for certain amendments submitted to this law and with which, as far as I can hear, not only is the Government agreeable, but the Legislative Committee of this assembly will also be agreed. I'm particularly glad that the head of the DOS parliamentary group, after seeing the argument today, had such an inspired speech and I'd like each time to win, not us from so-called. Women's political networks, they say, are MPs and MPs of Serbia's majority citizenship, which are women, as is known. We are discussing and discussing the topic of the Bill on Local Elections. It is now obviously a stumbling block in understanding politics at all; it has shown that there are still those whose basic patriotic expression is summed up in the verse: "There is no ship in Serbia"; to those who, thank God, have some kind of reform approach and are willing to sacrifice themselves so that these changes, progress and, finally, the reforms of society come. Members of the Social Democratic Party, to which I belong, have offered an amendment, and this is what my colleague Sabic spoke in detail, comparing his text with the text of the amendments tabled by the government. We, colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, said it didn't matter whose amendment was to be adopted. What matters is what's the point, and that's that there's a so-called. A positive measure that will confirm by the Constitution guaranteed gender equality and improve it. The question arises: Why are we talking about this subject for nearly half a day today? There are several groups of reasons: state-political, formal-legal, there are fundamentally which fall within the domain of cultural, social, reformal, or progressive reasons. When it comes to state-political reasons, this country wants to enter Europe. There is: The Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the European Union, which have done a lot in terms of obligations for parliamentarians to work to improve women's position. I will remind you of several documents, not only because of the increasing number of MPs present, but also because of the public: there was a need to protect women's political rights long ago in 1952. The Convention on Women's Political Rights; that there was a need to confirm more than political, women's rights, and that women should be protected from any kind of threat was confirmed by another 1979 convention. The Council of Europe, meeting in Strasbourg in 2000, brought additional arguments asking states to commit to the constitutions set out in the UN Charter and the Beijing Declaration to enforce women's political rights. Strasbourg 2000 says that the state, as an actor in the implementation of the policy of equality, has a multiple role; the most significant obligation of parliament is: "It is the duty of national parliaments to pass laws that require or allow positive action." So, gentlemen of Parliament, it is our duty to put this act or this fact into law; not only a formal, moral or social obligation, but a duty as a Parliamentarian. I remind you of UN Resolution 1325 which obliges countries to find mechanisms and implement these positive actions (Milka mentioned), which is part of state-political reasons. There is also the fact that we want to become a member of the European Union -- nothing but respect for all the positive and progressive provisions of this largest European family; nothing but a progressive approach to equality, equality and equal opportunities, if you understand me. I apologize to those whose theme is the flash, and I apologize for repeating something you've heard many times and what you know and feel with your heart. I hope that those who absolutely don't understand what we're talking about today will help them understand at least a little bit. The second group of reasons -- formally-legal, which our constituents are constantly called upon, squats in the members of the Constitution of the SRJ, a member of Serbia's 9th and Constitution, where they call for Article 13, and in fact everything is in Article 3 that says, "In the Republic of Serbia, everything that is not prohibited by the Constitution and by law is free." Therefore, there is no constitutional obstacle to the inclusion of this amendment in the law on local elections. I remind the Legislative Committee to once again take the text of the Constitution, make an analysis and conclude that we are absolutely right. The last and most significant group of reasons that I, you'll let me, call fundamentally, are cultural, in fact sociological reasons, and they're actually talking about progress and reform, and they're standing in the fact that, apart from the positive measures that the state is bound to, if it's a member of the UN and the OSCE, there's something that's social and stately will. We've explained it to the state, and society is obvious. The social will is to see equality and represent in all areas of society. How will you show and prove equality if it is not in the political sphere of society, or where it is most obvious, and it is in elections! The third important argument; you know that in its performances, after all the wars it has fought in the past decade, it has defined peace and tolerance; you know that the attitudes of international organisations have gained status or the calling of a state that finally goes into space of peace and tolerance instead of violence and war. Can you tell me who better represents peace and tolerance than women? Can you tell me that in Bujanovac, Presevo and Bear some other women live, perhaps interested in war or in forming new informal units for terrorist actions, or whatever they call themselves. Can you tell me who better than women can lead the country into progress and represent the progressive interests of their children, future citizens and voters in one country? There is also a formal willingness for women to perform political functions better if not as well as their male colleagues. This is why - all research has shown that the number and percentage of highly educated women are significantly higher than men. Their responsibility, and mentioning something else, key qualities such as non-conflictity and their incomparability to corruption, are significantly greater than those of the opposite sex. For those of you who respect only facts, the key reason you are constantly calling out (quote of the Syntagma) is that "in the whole world, in the rest of Europe", "in a civilized world", there is no such set; absolutely incorrect. Why is it absolutely incorrect? Today, the constitution and election laws of France, Britain, the Scandinavian countries have been cited, but I must say both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Afghanistan. To return to what was mentioned on the issue of violations of the Constitution of guaranteed equality. You don't get it. Why didn't you understand? The Constitution says "equal"; that means half-half or fifti-fifti. So I'm correcting, not 30%, but 50%.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21994	The word is by MP Bora Drakulović (not present). The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 82. Rules of Procedure. The monitor says there are 130 MPs in the O.R., there are so many cards, and 82 MPs are present in the O.R. right now. We think this is a very important topic for the Serbian people, because all citizens are looking forward to extraordinary local elections and MPs should be here in the hall. Unless he's 126, I don't think the Assembly can continue the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21996	National MP Dragan Markovic suggested that we establish the quorum. Please insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 110 MPs are present in the hall, and since the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has entered into force, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 30 of this year, I agree that we have a quorum and we can continue the work. Since MP Bora Drakulovic is not present, the word has been given by MP Emilija Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21997	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, or ladies, seems to be constantly on the agenda of some legal project that is related to women, a woman's story or something, in order to see more women's activity. I want to say a few things, I'll be really brief, something we won't argue about, which is the fact that there are few active women in politics. We will not argue about the fact that they should be on the committee lists, MPs in the Republic, the Federal Parliament and at all in the state public administration. Something that we're going to argue about, which is a fact, is that we can't talk about women and men's inequality, we can't talk about the absence of equal opportunities, because it doesn't actually stand. If that were the case, then you would not have in both parliaments at this time, Serbia-Montenegro, the women of the parliament presidents, women of the ministers, the presidents of the municipalities, women of the speaker in parliament. There's something else that's the point, and no one's really been dealing with it here today, that's a fact. There is something that is European standards, and that is fine, the representation of 30% of women in parliaments, which should affect women's greater activity, their motivation, their increased desire and the development of awareness of politics. Namely, our problem is the absence of women at all; not only the activities of women in politics, but the absence of motivation and awareness of the fact that the female part of the population should be equally responsible; that the woman is aware of the responsibility she carries with her mental circuit and I will be wearing in the development of democracy, in the construction of democratic institutions, in the rule of law and in general in the construction and improvement of the environment in which she lives; whether it is local self-government, republic or federal state is equal to the responsibility of the female population, as well as the male part of the population. What I fear will be the result of the adoption of the Serbian Government's amendment, as it is - if 30% of women are not represented on the list, it will be declared invalid, or cannot be submitted; it is a danger that stands, which should be removed in some way. Why don't we go to the other line, why don't we reward those who have 30% of women on the list, why don't we give them a primate in that distribution in subsequent terms, if they have another mandate more? There are a thousand ways to motivate. You're not going to force women to activate. You will not legally give them the obligation they have, first in their environment in which they live. Legal regulations provide frameworks for behavior, but motivation must give you something else. That obligation primarily stands here on us women. Each of us in its environment, in its local environment from which it comes, needs to show women that politics is not a man's job, that it's no big deal, that politics doesn't hurt, that politics is, in fact, politics and dealing with state problems at local, republican and federal level is just as much their obligation as men. If for no other reason, what women wear is a biological obligation to develop this society on their own and for their children's sake must contribute to their activities, not to legislation that will limit the parties from 30 percent of women having to put on the list. We're going to end up in another problem -- we're not going to be able to find 30% of women; we're going to have to access various methods to sort of have mercy on our candidates on the lists. Will that give us the quality of the work of the local parliament, that's the question? So, I think it's just too much responsibility here for all of us in the interior, in these local environments, to do a little bit more to activate and motivate women to do this job. It's the essence of things. Legal frameworks may only make the story a little easier for us, but we need to deal with the bottom line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21998	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word. He's not there. This concludes the principle debate according to the application for the word of the MPs. I ask if they want the word representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups. Please, the word has been made by MP Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u21999	Respected citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, in response to my questions, and in the opening statement, the prominent Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Nebojsa Covic, did not respond as I expected and as the Serbian citizens expect, I suppose. First of all, he did not convince me that this law applies to a single Serbia and that it is a long-term character. On the contrary, his words resulted in this actually referring to one-time use and to local elections in southern Serbia. I do not trust the Serbian government that the law will last long and will apply in the next local elections, but I deeply believe that this is just a law for elections in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac. I repeat - regardless of all efforts by Mr Covic, as an individual, the crisis in southern Serbia has not been resolved. If the law on local elections is passed and the elections in southern Serbia are executed, Serbs in southern Serbia will get no better situation than it is now, and it is now disastrous. First, Serbs sell their houses, properties and apartments because they see no perspective for their children. Secondly, there are still incidents in southern Serbia. Let's remember the wounded of two of our officers a few weeks ago when they encountered an anti-tecton mine set in the middle of the road. Furthermore, why would the law apply and conduct elections in southern Serbia when Albanians from southern Serbia clearly say they are establishing an Albanian national council; therefore, an organ parallel to this assembly. So that's what you have to get up against. That's what you have to say. Furthermore, General Ninoslav Krstic, vice-president of the Coordination Centre, said the garrisons of the Yugoslav Army must move out of cities only says that the situation is not stable. He cites the example of surrounding our garrisons in Croatia in 1991. Well, does this mean that one such high-ranking officer and a member of the Coordination Centre prejudges what can happen to the garrisons of the Yugoslav Army in Presevo, Medvedje and Bujanovac. If the law on local elections is passed and applied in the southern Serbian elections, nothing will solve the issue from the south of Serbia, which feel general uncertainty. Please imagine, just a few days ago a monument was discovered so-called Captain Lashi, terrorists, leader of the so-called The Presevo, Medvedje and Bujanovac Liberation Army with all Albanian pomp, along with Albanian flags and without the presence of our police, which had to prevent it. No matter what our brave army does and our brave gendarmes in southern Serbia, Serbs from southern Serbia know well that the ultimate decisions are made by politicians, and they no longer believe them. Then, amnesty are war criminals from southern Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22000	Mr. Pelevic, please return to the agenda. It's a bill on local elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22001	Yes, Madam President, I'm talking about the application of this law, possibly, if he adopts. Let me just say that the amnesty of war criminals of the former Presevo Liberation Army, Medvedje and Bujanovac has brought further unrest among Serbs from southern Serbia. As far as this particular election law is concerned, it should be said that it is one of the conditions for the candidate committee and the president of the municipalities and the place of residence. But the question is, how long has this candidate been staying, say in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac? Is it someone who moved from Albania a few months ago and will now be running for some Albanian party in southern Serbia. This is very important, and this must change in this law, because we will allow terrorists, who came from Cosmet or Albania, to be council members in the congregations of the municipalities of Medvedja, Presevo and Bujanovac. And, one more thing, the honourable Deputy Prime Minister did not answer what is very important to me: how will letters be written on the ballot; whether in both Serbian and Serbian, and in Albanian? I think it would be the most correct and correct, as the south of Serbia is located in Serbia, that the letters be first written in Serbian and only later in Albanian. If we let it be Albanian first, then Serbian, then I guarantee you a repeat scenario from Kosovo and Metohija. For all these reasons that I have cited and because of suspicion of the Serbian government's good intentions, when the party adopts this law, the SSJ will vote against the law on local elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22002	Thank you. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22003	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, just a few words at the end of this principle debate on the proposal for a law on local elections, since as MPs and a parliamentary group we have said a lot tonight about the content of this law, which is why we believe that the law should not be adopted. Since it is obvious that the law will first apply to these three municipalities in southern Serbia, it would be good to hear a few concrete answers and it is a pity that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is not there. We've heard that the government introduced an emergency administration based on the provisions of the old law, that's that famous member of the 213th Old Law on Local Self-Government, the day before the new law came into force. One dimension of this issue is the political and moral nature and it concerns the government itself. How is it that the government, which criticises one solution as an anachronous, does not democratically use the member to impose a forced administration into these three municipalities? Otherwise, those who participated in the debate on the previous Law on Local Self - Management know that it was a member of the law most criticised by the congregation's majority. The second dimension is consensually related to government decisions themselves. In fact, you heard today that decisions were made on February 28th, 25th. April, then May 17th, then June 7th, so we heard from the Deputy Prime Minister that there was a possibility of making a new decision on forced administration. It best confirms the political character of this decision. If there were illegalities in the work of these municipalities... I have to tell my colleague, Micovic. And irregularities, decisions would have been made sooner. The question is, what is the real goal of these decisions, and will the elections make something new, or will the application of the law in these municipalities bring something new? I have to say that the data we collected shows that local self-government functioned during the past and this year and that there was really no reason to introduce a forced administration. Whether the basis for the introduction of an emergency administration, i.e. the application of this law, is also hidden in this agreement on basic principles for early elections, where early elections are said to be held, to choose organs that would be democratic and representative. This is so much more strange that no one in the previous period by the authorities of local self-government, but also by the state authorities has made any fundamental remarks on the work of those units of local self-government. We even have a letter from the president of the Presevo municipality, Rize Halimi, who claims that Albanians participated in the structures of local self-government actively since 1 July 1992 and there has been no objections to the work of local self-government. So it would be good to hear why exactly here and why the temporary administration. The second thing is the fact that a member of the law has been expelled from the bill saying that someone who is to be nominated for a councilman must stay for at least six months in local self-government, or live there. I think it's one of the necessary conditions that, let's say, running for office would be fully implemented because it makes sense that someone who lives in one place for a long time can be a quality candidate. I know, if the municipality is one constituency and a political party is proposing to all candidates, it may not have any essential meaning, but I think this is important for some other reasons. It is true that these three municipalities are mentioned and spoken, and I wish that was not true, that a number of Prescha Albanians would temporarily settle in Bujanovac to change the ethnic structure, i.e. to raise the percentage of the population of the ethnic community. Thirdly, it would be good for the law on local elections to be applied in all municipalities, as in those that function uninterruptedly, along with all the good and bad sides that are accompanied by the functioning of local self-government, but it would be good to apply the law as well, that elections are conducted as soon as possible and in those municipalities where forced administration is introduced at the end of the year, and these municipalities have, regardless of what elections have been held in one part. We also believe that the bad side of this law is that the censorship is 3% in the mandate distribution, the censorship is small and we think it should be bigger; there is no reason for any political group or political party to be afraid of it individually. And two more things; we think it would be logical to apply analogy if a proportionate electoral system is already applied, which exists at a republican level, that the political party or coalition parties have all the mandates because they will propose, they will run, they will collect signatures and then it is logical to have all the mandates, compared to the solution so far where one third of the mandate is determined by the Law and two thirds of the political parties. And finally, I have said this today, we are against a proportional electoral system for the simple reason that we consider that the majority electoral system is more suitable for local self-government; it gives citizens more opportunity to influence, i.e. to know who they choose; simply, together with it, it means that they can have a more important impact on the content of decisions, on everything that the council does in the municipality, and thus also affect the quality of life where they live and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22004	Replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22005	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you only for a little more attention; during this debate, this whole legislative initiative is actually reduced to a problem -- three municipalities in southern Serbia. Given above all the circumstances encountered when the new democratic authority took over its duties and all that was done in the meantime, it would not be good if those thematics mentioned here, which primarily concerned problems in southern Serbia, the municipality of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, were left without comment. We cannot guarantee that there is not the intention of extremists on each side, because the accident does not recognise borders, just like extremism, that in the electoral process -- which, in fact, aims not only to calm opportunities in the south of Serbia, but also to bring national communities, Albanian and Serbian -- something happens down there or to abuse the election process. But the state is most determined in these situations and it is impossible for someone from Presevo to come to Bujanovac and, based on their presence, to exercise their right to vote in local elections through the application of the residence. It's done in the MUP, it's done in the municipality. Who's gonna give that man his I.D.? Don't scare people, there are too many ugly examples that could be said without any argument. It is impossible to appear in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje voters from Macedonia or Kosovo and Metohija, because there are authorities of the state that will prevent such a thing. Again, I ask you, who will give them the documents so that they can go out with them? If such a practice was in previous years, in some other territories, it is not possible in democratic Serbia, especially because international organisations have been in partnership with us, which have so far positively assessed our efforts. The European Security Organization is present downstairs, together with us one step at a time solving problems, and so far we have had their support at all times when we faced extremism. The fact that someone has raised an Albanian flag in Veliko Trnovac is a bad fact, but it is certainly in deep shadow, given the fact that there have been no armed conflicts down there in the last year, that no more police and army are killed, that the armed army of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje is disarmed. True, some are amnesty, but the state has given them the opportunity to live differently. In the circumstances where people lived down there, the question is whether it was possible at any time to make a clear distinction between the culprit and the one who was forced to act like that. We give every citizen a chance, elections are a good opportunity. This law is not a law regarding only the three municipalities and the state will not allow the right to choose abuse below, nor those extremists on the Albanian side, nor those who think that after ten years of denying civil rights to the Albanian national community, such a thing should be extended indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22006	On what grounds? Please, you have three MPs in the O.R. Right on the line, I don't think it's correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22007	Obviously, if you'll excuse my fellow MPs, I'm obviously misread. I just said that if there were a six-month rule in the law on the territory of the municipality, then the possible consequences would be avoided by applying such a solution. I hope it doesn't come to this, but I have to say, I have to say, for the people who are down there who have asked me to say it publicly, otherwise, I wouldn't want it to be like that, but as we realized, even in the census, there have been a number of irregularities, which have objectively disrupted the ethnic structure of those spaces, there is a concern that if this solution hadn't been applied and it wasn't in the content of the law, there can be some of these consequences; and of course none of us would want to come to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-06-06-0.u22008	I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search on the proposal for a law on local elections. The decision-making day, i.e. the voting day, will be notified in a timely manner, and the follow-up of the debate will be held on Tuesday, 11 June, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
