ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21354	The honourable Members of the People, on Article 19, as you have seen, have submitted a total of seven amendments. So this is one of the members who brought the most attention, not only to the MPs, but to the public. Trade unions and professional authorities of schools were also declared on this article. That Member of the Law determines the composition of the school board. The ministry predicted, as you saw, that the school board, as the school's managing body, had nine members, and that the most interested parties would be represented equally for the functioning of each school's individual and school system in general. So, three members are given by teachers and parents, and three are proposed by the ministry. The DSS has given one original amendment that differs from all six previous ones. In fact, all parliamentary groups have paid attention to the numerical representation of the structures they delegate, or propose their candidates to the school administration. We thought it was much more important or at least equally important, at least equally important, who are the people who enter the school administration. If three candidates choose a teacher's council by a secret vote, they will choose among themselves, I suppose, the best. The advice of parents will choose people who are interested in the work of the school. But how will the Ministry propose three candidates? The ministry has given up the right to appoint school directors, which is totally fine. But now, instead of one school principal, it should propose three candidates to participate in the school board. There is no word on how these candidates will be proposed and which, at least formal, are the conditions that the candidate must meet in order to be proposed on a school board. We think, and in this concept, our concept differs considerably from the concept of the Ministry, that it is in school management, and in general in the organisation of teaching, the most important or at least very important moment of taking care of the quality of staff. So, according to our concept, we wouldn't, for example. It could remain to be provided for in Article 13 of the Enlightenment and leave it to the minister to determine the conditions of their appointment. As in the Law of the University, we would tell people in advance, by law, what are the conditions that need to be met in order to get what name. Our amendment to Article 19 went mainly to point out to the Ministry some contradictions that its law contains, to warn of the fact that the proposed solutions that have been introduced by the old law are basically well motivated, but are unsettled, undeveloped, and unorthodox, seem to me, and contradictory to each other. Our amendment, therefore, serves more to signal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs than it can fit into the proposed concept. Our concept of the school system in part, and the good part, is that it puts first the quality of teaching and competence in school management. It's for us in the first plan, not just formal school management through school boards.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21355	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Bojana Aleksic, authorised representative of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21356	Just a little bit more on this article and the concept proposed by the DSS. Our concept is that the municipality, which under the new Law on Local Self-Government, has significantly greater powers, and in line with the pre-election promises of the DOS on decentralisation of the State - we consider the municipality now has great powers just when it comes to schooling, just when it comes to funding schools, repairs - not the owner of schools, but has transferred powers from the Republic and has a major impact on the life of schools, hospitals and at all. We believe that the municipality, in some ways, must have something to do with the management of schools of greater authority. Therefore, rather than appoint these three members of the school board, it is logical to do so by local self-government. I suppose even under the bill of law that's how it's going to be, since so far it's done, because the Ministry can't have insight into people on the ground, it can't know what people are, especially in remote places, in smaller places, which are supposed to be proposed there. So, according to the bill, even though it doesn't say so, in practice, it will be aware that in fact the local self-government of these people will delegate, and the ministry will only take over their candidates. That's why it's much more logical to open up to local self-government and yes. The second and basic concept of our concept is that instead of three members, who would delegate the advice of parents, which at the level of high schools doesn't work at all, in elementary schools it was even acceptable for us, because there were school tips there; however, when it comes to high schools it was not at all, and it is illogical, at least at the first time, when we didn't already have it, that now we have a hill, a high school, or a high school student's parents, are being organised in haste. It is much better, in our opinion, that local self-government instead of these two parents determines two teachers from higher education institutions, or one professor from a higher education institution and another representative from a local economy; especially if we know that secondary schools are largely tied - and should be even more, if we want to develop the system of education in the right way - for this local economy and that these young people, who finish those high schools, have a lot more practice at the local factory, the local mine, in general, and depending on the city to the city, or what is most important to the city, and that immediately, at the end of that high school, there is a job waiting for them in some way and that they are already trained to deal with this business. Government general opinion... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... (Here, I am finishing) that many more theoretical knowledge is acquired in our schools, which is later hard to apply in practice or takes time and much more practice, but later on, it means after the school is finished, so it would be much better to give more practice during the course itself and that students are much more ready for it. That's why we won't withdraw this amendment. We're staying on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21357	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from the Minister of Education and Sports, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21358	I must say, we have debated a lot with DSS and Bojana Alexic about this member. I read in the paper today that most of the DSS amendments were adopted. I never counted. We tried to push out one line of thought. And because of this line of thought, I'm going to tell you that the Proposer - the Ministry of Education and the Government very much care that the concept remains 3+3+3. Why? It's just my parents. We think that parents are the future of school, that they will participate to a much greater extent, and we have prepared one flyer that we will send to all the citizens of the country, in which we are now appealing to the future position of parents. There's a sentence in that leaflet -- which is not mine, but I like it, and that's why I can tell you -- "parents are the first natural educators of their own children," which is why we have to respect it, and that's why the Ministry stays firm on this. We cannot accept your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21359	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 37, against 90, a abstentioned one, had not voted 47, out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is wanted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21360	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Slobodan Janjic has been stripped of his word against business, so he is unable to explain his amendment. That's why I'm gonna try to explain it. In Article 20, we intervened primarily because of the last two positions in which it stands - that the session of the school board attends and participates in the work, without the right to decide, a representative of the school's student organisation. First of all, we don't know what organization it is. We don't know there's a student organization. Whether it's some alliance of DOS youth or something else, or "Resistance," or maybe something else. Furthermore, we don't see it mentioned anywhere in the law, and to mention, we probably wouldn't have any reason to ask a question like this or ask for an additional explanation, or it'll be left to every school. In any case, it is evident that the government intends to organise some form of youth organisations at school, whose status is unclear. Don't think that we now have something against young people getting informed and, of course, being in the middle of everything that's going on in schools, but don't even turn things upside down. If we want to be honest as parents, as adults, children in high school are still children, and only at the end of the fourth grade do they become full-aged, but even if they are full-aged, they have to know "who hairs, who wears water", or we can't bring down even the teacher level, or the owner's level. The school manager, whoever's sitting on that school board. There are other ways that parents, primarily through advice from parents and classmates, will be informed of everything that is going on at school as much as necessary, but there is no need for children, especially not in such a vague way, because we do not even know how they will be elected or delegated to that school board, we drag them into all of this. The last position speaks of the school board making decisions by majority of the votes of the total number of members. To me, believe me, such a provision as a lawyer is ridiculous. I think it's settled by the school board's rules of procedure. In one law, it's absolutely excessive. I don't know how otherwise it could be regulated, maybe it's -- it's two-thirds, when some important issues are on the agenda, but we don't see that it's important that something like that is in the law, and that's why we intervened for purely legal and technical reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21361	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Stevan Lilic submitted the 20th amendment together. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present, and if anyone else wants a word. No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For it was not, against the 132 abstentions, there was no vote 38, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 19, against 104 abstentions, 16 did not vote 30, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. You don't want a word? Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 27, against 111 abstentions, he did not vote 31, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of Parliament Milan Radulovic and Bojana Aleksic jointly submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Article 24 of the amendment lays down Article 145. The Rules of Procedure submitted to the Education Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, a representative of the Proposer agreed with this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Radojko Petric, submitr of the amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on High Schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21362	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24 of this Act in the section on the obligation of the municipality to provide funds for investments, investment and ongoing maintenance, material costs and others for secondary schools. The amendment proposes that a provision be introduced in the Law on High School that the municipality is obliged to provide part of the funds for the transport of pupils. It is thought of the transportation of students who are located more than four kilometers from the school headquarters, if there is no closer to the same school at that distance. For students distracted by development, transportation should be provided regardless of the distance from school. The amendment further suggests that if the municipality cannot provide full resources for the transport of pupils, part of the means of transport can also be provided by the parents of the students. The decision on the level of parental participation and the provision of resources for the transport of pupils should be made by the municipality. Due to the overall economic situation and the low standard of living of most student parents, it is necessary to provide for the possibility for municipalities to participate with part of the funds to cover the costs of transporting high school children if they are located more than four kilometers from school. True, some, mostly economically stronger, municipalities have provided some of the means to transport high school students so far, but they have done so on a voluntary basis. However, it must be prescribed by law that all municipalities are obliged to do so within the limits of their possibilities. So, it doesn't have to be 100%, let the municipality at 50% or 30%, but mostly be obliged to participate in the costs of carrying students. I would remind you that the same criteria I propose to this amendment apply to the transport of primary school students. It's regulated by the elementary school law. It is logical for the amendment to be accepted, with more than an average distance from the place of residence from the school of high school students than the founding fathers. Also, according to other expenditures (prices of textbooks and others), higher education is more expensive than the founding. Let us bear in mind the increasing cost of parents from suburban and rural backgrounds when their children go to high school. It would be absurd to call on the fact that basic schooling is mandatory, and secondary education is not necessary to provide solidarity-based resources. It would mean that if parents were unable to continue schooling children, and that would really be devastating for this country and I believe that such a policy is not supported. The SPS as a social justice party is fighting for the equality of all citizens, and in particular for the equality of children in schooling and providing equal conditions for education and training, as well as for progress in life. I hope this is in principle present with all MPs of this assembly and will support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21363	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21364	The respected presidency, respected fellow Members, taking into account the economic situation and looking at a situation that is far more difficult than it was before - an increasing number of students, or parents, are unable to pay for travel and thus preventing the schooling of students in high school - I think common solutions should be found, and given that an increasing number of factories are being sold, that these funds remain at the municipal level as a means to help the student travel and ensure their economic situation for normal school work. I can only say - earlier in my school asked for the help of 20 students, monthly tickets, and the municipality used to give for travel, one part of the trip. And now it's wanted, and 40 parents are unable to pay for monthly tickets, and the municipality is able to help only five students a month, that assistance is very modest. I think that, through a social programme, but in order to be included in it, we need to ensure, until the economy is stabilised, help students not to think that a great student or student of exceptional quality cannot attend classes. There are such cases and there will be more of them, given that the growing number of factories is closing, that there will be no work in the economy, that more workers will be out of work. Then the question arises how will parents and from where will be set aside for monthly tickets from 2000 to 2,500. If they extract from the social aid that will be the heights, then the question arises whether a family can survive at all. I think you could find a certain percentage to participate as you used to; in the best of times; in view of and donations that are huge and that arrive every day, let those donations provide students with a part of the participation, and students who are poor to provide monthly tickets. If we want justice, a correct attitude towards the students, I think this amendment should be accepted and allowed legally to be a public obligation, according to the possibilities, so whether it's 10% or 20%. There are 10 dinars in Belgrade from the end of the map, with 400 dinars, the student can drive around Belgrade, and for the same route the map moves from 40 to 70 dinars in the interior. I ask that the minister and fellow MPs consider, so that conditions are created that students who have their own quality and that students are allowed to use that part of the benefit. In the name of the children... (President: three minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21365	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS MPs will support Mr Radojko Petric's amendment, given the overall economic situation in the country. Statistics say, and in the DOS press we read, there are 1.500,000 people in the soup kitchens. So it's completely hungry. So that about three million people are at some existential minimum, so that they barely survive... Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: You make it up. )......................................................................................................... Milka, I didn't ask you anything. If you want a replica, please come out after me and tell me what you got. It's rude to throw it all the time when I come out to talk. I'm talking to you, but I'm also talking to the public of Serbia. I ask the most beautiful of you, Madam Chairman, to protect me from these incursions. I didn't come here to communicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21367	I ask all MPs to respect the MP and not to receive the speaker who is behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21368	... across the board with you rather than talking about very important things. I really think that after we introduced a new tax policy, after we taxed everything with 20%, and in this way, by taking money from Serbian citizens' pockets, we tried to fill Serbia's budget that was quite ambitious, here's a way for citizens to get back at this point. We know that more than 100,000 people have lost their jobs, as well as that up to 700,000 workers are being announced. I ask you indeed, as parents and you as MPs, as much as you are disturbed by this fact that every morning you only have to transport and breakfast your children to allocate a considerable amount of money without talking about the other costs you have around children; we are supposed to advocate some progressive population policy, so that the state takes over local self-government at least the costs of carrying students who travel as amended and proposed - 4 km and more to its school. So it's high school. Don't just have Belgrade and big cities in your head when you think about it. There may be costs even the smallest, but inside there are huge transport costs. From a village to the city, reach Kragujevac or Pirote or Leskovec in high school, parents and how it costs and I think the municipalities could and could have ways to use the funds they have rationally and to help parents and children in this way. It may not take years, but at this point it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21369	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) Right to replica, MP Milka Marinkovic. The basis for the replica is to mention by name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21370	I'm very sorry that yesterday I had no right to go out for a pay phone, to respond to that insolence that was expressed here in relation to Mr. Secretary. Of course, I went out for a pay phone and I'm saying that the former minister didn't care much about those folk cuisines that were created at the time while she ruled this country, and that the people and workers she mentioned didn't run out of work right now. They lost their jobs ten years ago, eight years ago, at a time when... (SRS emissaries are getting out of place). Quiet, don't talk when I'm talking. So, in your day, gentlemen, that people remained hungry. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] What we're trying to do, what we're doing, is we're closing down the soup kitchens, neutralizing the ruin that you've done to this country, and headed by this gentleman who took an apartment of 2 acres and he's giving lessons here. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21371	I ask the MPs, once again, to respect the Rules of Procedure and not to receive the speaker at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21372	As long as you wish to roar, but while you lied to a people with some Karlobag and Virovitica, this people were left without a job, killed, and there is no Carlobag or Virovitica. What we do and we succeed, it is to slowly but surely neutralize your thieving and catastrophic results of your authority. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21373	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, replicas the presentation of National MP Milka Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21374	I have one piece of advice, since I'm in charge of counseling these DOS individuals. Milka, either runs in the morning for an hour and a half, not bad, and then you take a shower, after that run, or ask the doctor from your MP group, the cure is called "climen."
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21375	I ask all MPs to leave the presidency to decide on the right to reply. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: Replica. ) (Milka Marinković, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The MP had a replica of the presentation of the Parliament of the People's Parliament, Milka Marinkovic, the Rules of Procedure do not have the possibility for another replica. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow for replication. The breach of the Rules of Procedure - it can only be handed down by a representative or an authorised representative. (Milka Marinkovic, from the post: Business proposal. ) A proposal by the Rules of Procedure may be made. Proposed by Business, Milka Marinković. Here you go, Milka.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21376	Since I am taking a proper bath, unlike some here, I suggest that the Rules of Procedure be brought in to bathe properly and of course run and shower. What I don't do, some do, and I don't take away from the PIO pensioners fund, I don't do it at all, and otherwise I shower and run and run and I'm in very good shape.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21377	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21378	After this wit, let's get back to work. I've had enough trouble with one of the traits of people who's later getting smart, even though it's better ever than never. That's not controversial. In 1992, the High School Act was passed, and in 1996 it was amended. According to my data, the current promoters of this amendment had power at the time. Historical interpretation, or historical data, suggests that when the law was passed in 1992 and amended in 1996, there was an intensity of certain circles to introduce the payment of transport. So it's about to come out and be in line with this proposal. However, the SPS's view was then taken that secondary schooling is optional and is not in the state to finance. It's facts, it's true, I'm telling you as a fact. Of course it's a noble idea, there's no dispute. The problem is to limit our budget. We will try and try, through scholarships to the poor and by building and adapting students' homes, to solve this problem. Of course, the moment the budgetary possibilities are created, we'll take that commitment to ourselves. For now, it has to be the way it is. I'm saying, I like the idea, but we have to stay on it, we know about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21379	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević, a replica. The basis for the replica is the mention of the party in the presentation of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21380	We need to look at one reality, Mr. Minister: In 1996, in the environment we were in, the SPS took care of as much as the economic situation allowed. This opposition then worked together as co-operated and with whom it could, so it blocked both our work and what could have been done. On the other hand, you boast of huge donations. Give one piece of that donation to the student standard. You say you arrange homes. Well, you raised the price of high school homes in April or March twice a month, so 100%. There were 800 dinars, and now it's about 1,500 dinars. So, about your concern, how much care you're taking, you're leading by increasing the price, and what you like about ideas, you're all in this -- we like this idea, but since you're the SPS, the opposition, we can't accept that. I don't think we can do that and that's not good. If there are donations, go ahead, get out of donations 1%, set aside from selling companies 1%, to provide students with better conditions. I think he can do it. If there are no donations, go public and say the donations went into the wind.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21381	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. 46, against 66, abstention 21, did not vote 40, out of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, with an amendment proposing amendments in Articles 108b, 108d and 108e, was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21382	In Article 27, the proposed Article 108d in paragraph 2, which speaks of the competences of an educational counselor, we ask our amendment to amend point 3 which is intended to value the quality of school work, i.e. the home of students. We point out, as in one previous amendment, that the quality of the professional-pedagogical work of teachers, professional associate and educators at school, or at the home of students. The minister, explaining the government's position on a similar amendment that we had yesterday, said it was possible to evaluate the quality of the school and that it would just be based on the qualifications and success that children will show on the qualification exams. I have to remind him that the qualification exam only comes from two classes and that it can't possibly be an evaluation of one school, because in elementary school, in eighth grade, he's studying, I think, 15 classes. After point 6, since the responsibility of an educational counselor has been proposed, we have suggested that point 7 be added, which would indicate that the educational advisor proposes to the school director, or home student temporary distance, in the case referred to in Article 80(1). Laws, teachers, expert associate and educator. This is the case when a teacher does not achieve the goals and tasks of education and education through his educational - educational work. We've had such an amendment before, and you didn't accept it. We believe that the guidance counselor is the only one who is trained to establish such a thing and to signal, or order the director to take appropriate measures and that, in any event, the Ministry of Education must be familiar with all such, hopefully, extreme and extreme cases that are neither daily nor regular in school. After Article 2, we asked to add Article 3 which reads: "A teaching counselor is being introduced for religious teaching", because we do not see that an educational counselor, who should do all this which the promoter has stated here for the classes being studied in high school, could attend teaching classes from religious teaching classes, and was trained to value the quality of the professional - teaching work of teachers of religious teaching. Its competence would also be to propose to the Minister of Education and Sports a temporary distance, also in these cases of Article 80, because, you will allow, it is possible that the teacher of religious teaching will do something that is provided for in Article 80, and we do not see how to protect students in a different way if that happens. The proposed member of 108a would be changed and it would be said - a way of performing professional - pedagogical supervision and criteria for estimating the quality of the work of teachers, professional associate and educators at school, or at the home of students, is closer to being edited by the minister of education and sports. So it has to be either some sublegal act regulated or the minister would have to handle it with his own act. It is here in article 108a, as proposed by the Government: "The way of performing professional - pedagogical supervision and criteria for estimating the quality of work of the school, or the home of students, is being organised by the minister of education. " (President: You have the right to use time as a representative of the parliamentary group. ) Therefore, I was able to explain a slightly larger amendment, as the government's proposal was also given in several members. We tried to unite it. We believe that the most important thing here is to introduce an educational counselor for religious teaching. I don't see any reason the government doesn't accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21383	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 88, there are no abstentions, no vote of 40, of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, with a correction, brings together the mid-term MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word has a folk emissary, Bojana Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21384	This is an amendment that is related to the issue of school space. This time it is not related to our concept, which Mr Radulović and I have explained and is different from the concept of the Ministry. This is now referring to the Ministry and this is the last chance for the minister to accept at least this and at least in some way limit the directorial will. I'll read about the amendment. So, after saying, "school" is added, "and oversees the legality of the conclusion and cancellation of the lease agreement or the use of the school space, as well as the legality of the implementation of the extended school's activities". In this amendment, it gives the Ministry the right, and through inspection supervision, which has been transferred to the level of local self-government, i.e. municipal and city council, to control school space contracts and the possible cancellation of those contracts, and to at least in a way self-will, which, in a large number of schools, I again underline, be present, stand in the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21385	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 63, a abstentioned one, was not voted 60, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Milos Lukic, Petar Petrovic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants don't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 83, the abstentions were not voted 54, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by National Ambassador Dusan Cvetkovic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. It's an amendment to the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21386	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the section of the Law on High School, which regulates school supervision. The amendment refers to part of article 27 and suggests replacing the word "three years" in article 108 with the words "five years". The government has separated the new members 108a to 108a from the expert-pedagogical supervision, and the affairs of the inspection i.e. He entrusted the draft law to the educational inspector, while entrusting the work of expert-pedagogical supervision to an educational advisor. In a correct way and quite precise proposer has defined the duties of an educational inspector and an educational counselor. However, when a member of 108g, most specifically referred to by the Socialist Party of Serbia's amendment, the promoter defined who could handle the affairs of a legal inspector, he, for only his own reasons, or because Minister Knezevic was a professor at the Faculty of Law, suddenly, I would say without any reason, favoured a degree in law school. Thus, the professor of the Faculty of Law and the current minister suggests that inspection supervision can carry out a graduate lawyer with a professional examination and that I do not quote further, with at least three years of employment in the administration, school, etc. However, all other persons with the appropriate high school training, so with some other college than the law school, except for one who, I would say, is studying in that yellow building, as we have always called it from other universities, must as well as a lawyer have passed a professional exam, but not three but five years of work experience or training. While the law school is not nearly twice as valuable as any other university, we from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group asked the amendment under consideration to replace the word "five" in this Article 108g word "three". This would be five years for a graduate lawyer to perform his duties as an educational inspector, as is true for others with a suitable university. The proposal also supports the fact that Minister Knezevic predicted only a minimum experience of five years for the work of the Educational Council. That's why I expect, Mr. Minister, that, despite your students' best knowledge of the possibilities, you don't devalue the other colleges for three years, because you're still the minister of all high schools. Perhaps in this assembly, respected fellow MPs, there are the largest number of lawyers, but I call on you to do so before you reject the amendment, because it is the amendment of the Socialist Party of Serbia, but think again. I'm asking you why only lawyers have three years of working experience to become educational inspectors and all of us with other colleges for five years. Finally, I call on the Prime Minister to accept this amendment once more, and you, fellow MPs, to vote for it. Only by his vote will we show that the lawyers are not superhuman after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21387	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 85, a abstentioned one, was not voted 39, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 27 of the amendment is based on Article 145. Rules of Procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. There were no, against 100, two abstentions, not 72, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21388	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 30 of this Law, and at first I know that this amendment will not be accepted, for the simple reason that neither the previous amendments of the SRS have been accepted, which were in fact consensually arranged so that, with the adoption of these amendments, the law resembles something. And like this, the law doesn't look like anything. Article 30 states that the congregation of the municipality, or congregation of the city, appoints members of the school board. I think it's completely absurd, because the congregation of the municipality is not the founder of the school and I think that the appointment of the school board should be done by the founder of the school, and the founder of the school is known as the government. There is also the possibility that high schools may not be in the jurisdiction of the state, therefore, of not being state schools, of being private schools. How, in that case, the congregation of the municipality will be the one to appoint members of the school board, if one who creates the school does not want the congregation to participate in his school, for these or those reasons, if this is not regulated by law, and this is not regulated by law. In fact, here we want to marginalise the business of local self-government and to say that more powers are given to local self-government, but money is not given. So some marginal jobs are given, which should actually be "selling fog" to local self-government. To support that with a fact, and here we are constantly referring to some historical data, I would refer to one historical data, where the president of the DS is, and today's Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, on May 29th in TANG, said that Yugoslavia's future is in greater centralism, with the maximum impact of the work that contributes to the maximum. Which is the part that makes the most of it today - DOS's, they say. And what does the people say? The people say, "we've had enough DOS. Because every day there is growing dissatisfaction throughout Serbia. So, for example, in all cities you can see this mass of citizens (show the poster) with passwords.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21389	Mr. Keseiæ, please return to the agenda, it is your amendment to article 30, not your promotion.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21390	I'm talking about Article 30. Since I'm well-mannered and I don't want to say what it says on these parolees...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21391	Mr. Keseiæ, I warn you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21392	Let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21393	Well, I can't let you, you're out of time and you're not talking about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21394	Only if I'm out of time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21395	Mr. Keseiæ, I really don't have time to argue with you. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21396	The agenda is really that DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21397	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21398	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been looking for the removal of this member, given first of all that the school board has been an organ of management at school so far, that it was appointed by the founder of the school. So far, it's been the Serbian government. Now we have already seen and explained from the discussion what it will look like, that the president and members of the school board are appointed for a period of four years. That's how it's been so far, and now it's just changed the composition of that school board. However, given who is funding the school, which is foreseen by the existing Article 105. (I mean high school, of course, we talk about that school) - "The Ministry of Education provides funds to the schools for salaries, fees and other incomes and resources of joint spending, in accordance with the law, and part of the funds for investments", and of course for religious teaching, we have heard that there will be a contract on work with each lecturer, such as in passing, from the minister, and the municipality, or local self-government, the city of Belgrade, providing funds for investments, investment and ongoing maintenance, material costs and other school obligations and for professional training of teachers, professional associates and educators. This was the starting point for us - who it is that should, given what this school board is doing, be in the membership of that school board, and I will remind you of what the school board is doing (only at some points) - decides on the business of the school and the dedicated use of the funds of the special school fund. So should workers control themselves from spending the money they receive from the municipality or from the Republic? The municipality and local self-government, meaning the city and the Republic, which share the obligation to finance high school, can only be represented on the school board, or retain the existing state, but in the opinion of local self-government, for example, appoint a school board. Then he adopts business reports and annual accounts. Please, it's about the money again. Whoever gives, he's the only one who has the right to control. Well, we can't control ourselves inside the school what we did, whether we did right or not. And, of course, those from local self-government, who give money, always stay in the minority in that 3+3+3 ratio as part of the school board. The opening of a competition for the selection of directors -- also the founder and the one who finance stays in the minority, and that was why we felt that the existing situation should be maintained, that the school board, if there is one, should be appointed by the Government, with consent or by local self-government. It is not necessary to raise education workers in this way (you are only creating an illusion that they are deciding), nor should parents - this is not a job for them, it is not necessary to return to some self-government relationship, it is necessary to know exactly who is responsible and who is responsible for whom and what is whose job.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21399	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 101, the abstentions were not voted 37, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Education Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21400	Several times after this pay phone in yesterday's debate on the details of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High School, a member of the ruling coalition, so-called DOS, he says, "The government is on its way and this government is reformable." I don't believe he's convinced the citizens, because they've long known he's not on the right path, he's not even ruling.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21401	Mr. Vujic, you have three minutes to explain your amendment and please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21402	So that same MP wouldn't be so sad because he couldn't convince the MPs of the DOS, here I'll agree with him, if no one else will, although my position is as a member of the SRS, that this government is in no way on the right track, but it is reform. It is precisely this draft law on amendments to the law on secondary school law that is reformable and in the style of DOS, however, reform is retrograde. This law, in fact the bill of law, brings us back to the age of self-government. What can be expected, and I believe that this DOS MP who often went out is that in the coming period, we will have the 8th session of the CK Serbia again very soon, so those who were defeated in that session will now pay back their debts to those who won at the time. The people no longer trust each other -- and they will give God -- will be very quick elections. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 31 of this Law, which suggests that Article 31, paragraph 2, should be deleted, and the Serbian Radical Party's programme sets out against the school boards. Why not? Because he's the founder of state schools. If the state is the founder of schools, then the old Ministry of Education schools are enlightened. If the Ministry is enlightened about schools, then the taxpayers collect the budget, finance schools from the budget, and money and salaries of teaching staff come from these finances, they go for other needs of schools. Your story of decentralisation and democratisation has not given anything to local self-government, so local self-government still needs to take care of the material care of schools, those costs that these schools have. That's why this school board has no purpose, no need at all. If the director is a very capable manager and a good organizer at school, he doesn't need any oversight from the school board. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party proposes to delete this Article 2nd position. ("The school board will elect the school director within two months of the day of its constitution"), for the director to be responsible for the entire work of the school, and for the local self-government... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Or the government who set him up, that is. The Ministry of Education. You haven't learned anything from DOS, so that's the time. Because of this time, I will remind you of my previous exposure, when I reminded you, reminded and mentioned, of our great giant Jovanovic Dragon, while being a doctor and a great radical was also a children's poet, and for nothing Uncle Jova taught children and future generations of Serbia with his children's songs... (President: I am warning you again on time and on agenda. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, miss. Therefore, if Uncle Jova is a dragon to the children, it is unnecessary now to "Gasha - two children".
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21403	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 108, the abstentions were not voted 56, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic. The Government, the Education Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? Here's a word from MP Bojana Aleksic, authorised representative of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21404	And time has accepted this amendment. The amendment referred again to the selection of new directors at a time when we expected this law to be passed. It was supposed to be a March moon somewhere. Linear competition was to be called and new directors were to be elected, in fact, just before the end of the school year, which would lead to possible strikes and school chaos. But as this law is passed only today, it means in early May, the automatically directors will not be able to enter into office before September 1st, so that the delay in the adoption of this law has made sure that our amendment is accepted. That's why I'm pulling it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21405	I find that MP Bojana Alexic withdrew the amendment to Article 31 on behalf of the applicants for the amendments. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 33rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The government and the Education Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from the MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21406	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on High School, in which I propose to replace the 1st issue of "2003/2004" with the number "2007/2008"; to add a new position 3 which reads: "Employees in the school that have been performing the tasks of the school secretary until the date of entry into force of this law and does not meet the conditions of professional training and has ten years until retirement, retains the existing status". Namely, Article 33. The draft law amending and supplementing the High School Act states that the school staff, which until the date of entry into force of this law, carried out the tasks of the school secretary and did not meet the requirements of the degree and type of training, can carry out the tasks for the longest time until the end of the school 2003/2004. years, i.e. 2004/2005. A year. We proposed, we from the SPS, that this last until 2007/2008. the year because, in many schools, in small places, the work of the school secretary is carried out by people with medium professional training and we consider the logical proposed change in attitude 1. Because in the proposed period, the worker cannot be qualified, so the period of pre-qualification should be postponed until 2007/2008. and thus provide a chance for anyone who has the opportunity and knowledge to finish law school so that he can do just professional work at school. The position of Article 33 refers to the deployment of employees under Article 1 to other relevant tasks. If there are no such jobs, he's making an employee whose work has stopped the need. The existing school funding rule in 20 departments comes - two workers. Well, I'm asking a question - can a worker who doesn't have the right professional equipment be assigned to the right job, i.e. whether there is a job opening, and that really creates the conditions for this worker to stop the need and that he is exercising his rights in the labour market. We've suggested it in Section 3 because we think that the employee who retires for ten years, and he's been working for 20 and more years on the job of the secretary, should stay and work at school. Because any other solution would lead to a large number of redundancies, so the question is whether the reform that this government is constantly talking about means firing workers and leaving them out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21407	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Please, the word is Vladimir Garcevic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21408	We thought on behalf of the SPS, and we now believe that the government is not only the person who needs to be fired from work, not to worry about the workers and to be as many on the street as possible, but to look for solutions that are most optimal for the workers, with new jobs, and to choose people, normally, with high school supplies. In this situation, we have that a large number of workers will be out of work, regardless of the minister's oral promise to provide jobs for them. On the basis of oral promises, a system of education is not being built. This means that a large number of workers will be placed on the labour market, with social assistance for a time, but the real question of their continued employment is raised. I hope, in the fall, that new elections will come, and that the SPS, if it takes power, and I hope it will, will undo this and bring the workers back to the jobs that suit them. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21409	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 114, the abstentions were not voted 29, out of 187 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bojana Alexic, Vladimir Andric, Marina Stamenkovic, Milan Radulovic and Nenad Lemajic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 34a be added after article 34a. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, and the representative of the promoter of the Minister of Education and Sports, Prof. Dr. Gašo Knezevic does not want the final word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on high school in general. For 121 against 56, the abstentions were not voted 11 out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the law on high school law, mostly votes. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE MEETING OF A EVER MEMBER OF THE SPECIFIC COUNCIL OF THE COURT OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY You have received proposals for the selection of one permanent member of the High Council of Justice elected by the National Assembly, which was submitted by the Supreme Court of Serbia to the Committee for Justice and Administration. I remind you that, in accordance with Articles 90 and 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to present me with lists of registered speakers for this item of the agenda. I am opening a search on candidates' proposals for the election of a permanent member of the High Council of Justice elected by the National Assembly. Does the proposing representative, deputy president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mr Zoran Ivosevic want to speak to us? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21410	Thank you for letting me. The Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, I would say to my colleagues, but now I have remembered actually that I am in Parliament and therefore I am speaking to you with the honourable Members of Parliament, according to Article 302. Law on the High Council of Justice, the National Assembly elects a permanent member of the High Council of Justice among the three candidates proposed by the Supreme Court of Serbia. Serbia's Supreme Court has proposed three candidates. Everyone has to be a prominent lawyer, and they can't be judges or public prosecutors or deputy public prosecutors. The Supreme Court proposed the following candidates: Professor Zoran Tomic, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, Dragoljub Petrovic, Judge of the Supreme Court of Pensions and Mirjan Rasic, a lawyer in Belgrade. All three enjoy the full support of the promoter. All three candidates provided biographical data available to you and written statements of acceptance of the candidacy. I admit that you're in a little bit of trouble because between the three great candidates you have to define yourself as one, but perhaps the order I've spoken the names of these candidates could help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21411	I thank the deputy president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mr Zoran Ivosevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was really trying to establish the basis by which the predecessor who was behind this speaker now addressed us and failed to find the business provision by which Ms. Micic presented Mr. Ivosevic and also said that he was a representative of the promoters in the National Assembly. Mrs. Micic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has authorised proposings in the executive authority and authorised proposings from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the Serbian Supreme Court has proposed to the Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Justice and Administration Committee was supposed to have its representative here for this speaker, to come out and say what kind of proposals we got, possibly affecting, and he's already affected it safely in discussions with MPs on who's to be elected, and the tendingly drawn up list of candidates clearly says who's to be elected, it's pretty clear, because some of the candidates would have to bring on the carriers at any session. Is that what you're doing here? You're making a bigger pleading, not some high-level council of justice, so I'm warning you not to insult your dignity... (President: You have reached out for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic. )......................................................................................................... I ask that you do not insult the dignity of the National Assembly and address the National Assembly with exclusive authority by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You can invite anyone to the gallery, it is your right to inform us who you invited to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and any appearance for the speaker is participation in the work of the National Assembly. The person who had been behind this speaker before me could not and should not have participated, and that is, if you respect the National Assembly. If you don't respect her, then of your own free will.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21413	Mr Nikolic, I respect the National Assembly and there is first and foremost no provision in the Rules of Procedure which may be authorised representatives, or legislators, find me that provision. It doesn't exist. That's the first one. Secondly, there is a basis by which we have invited the esteemed Mr Zoran Ivosevic, which is Article 3. Law on the High Council of Justice. This is the legal basis for his invitation, and the member says, "The National Assembly elects a permanent member of the High Council of Justice among the three candidates proposed by the Supreme Court of Serbia". So, the proposal is the Supreme Court of Serbia, and Mr Ivosevic is the deputy president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Are you satisfied with the answer? So the legal basis is the law, you can't answer it again, I can just put it to the vote if you're not satisfied, so we vote. I'm putting a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't say which provision was violated? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You did not respect the dignity of the Assembly. You don't know which member he is, I won't put him to the vote. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to address the Assembly? Please, the word has been given by Parliament Group President, MP Zarko Obradovic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21414	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today discusses and decides on a single staff solution, a staff issue from its jurisdiction, I would like to make several principles assessments on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. 1. If the Law on the High Council of Justice was adopted in November 2001 and envisioned the start of the Council's work on 1 January 2002, one logical question arises, why only now, in mid-May, propose to the National Assembly the selection of a member of the High Council elected by the Assembly; this is six months after the adoption of the law and four months after the High Council was due to begin its work. 2. It is obvious that, in the election of this permanent member of the High Council of Justice, the proposal of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which he submitted at the end of February, and in particular by the Serbian Parliament, i.e. the parliamentary majority. DOS, because DOS determines the agenda and the choice of personnel primarily depends on them. If the High Council could not be established without the choice of one of its permanent members, who is elected by the National Assembly, why wait for the May moon? Why has this question not been discussed in any of the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly or at the beginning of the spring session? If the High Council has been established and works, there was no need for the already established agenda of the Serbian Parliament to change this way. 3. What gives this staff question the character of such urgency, so that the agenda of the session can be changed so that the Assembly can select a permanent member of the High Council of Justice? Is it the proposal of the president of the courts, judges, public prosecutors, or is it something else? There are unknown motives for such a haste. We are certain that the choice of a member of the High Council, and by emergency procedure, will not improve the situation in a poor judiciary. To this end, the representatives of the executive authority also contribute with constant interference in the work of the judicial authorities. The decisions of the judicial authorities shall be commented, submitted, ignored and violated. One day we hear that Serbia has capable, professional, quality people in the judiciary, and tomorrow there is nothing wrong with Serbia's judiciary and that the judiciary is incompetent, slow, corrupt. 4. On the proposed candidates, the SPS parliamentary group does not want to give any grades, but we cannot help but notice from the attached biographies of candidates that some of them, as essential facts for their work activities and biography, point out co-operation with DOS. That fact is enough, in itself, saying that DOS stories about the independent judiciary were empty, just as it was in the election of judges, where a huge number of judicial officials had to pass the DOS personnel commission. 5. Since the adoption of decisions in the National Assembly is primary and depends on the will of the congregation’s majority, i.e. The DOS, for the country's legal system and, of course, for citizens, it would be good if the National Assembly had finally elected judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia after its constitution, which would allow the court to work and to assess the constitutionality of the law adopted by the Assembly, particularly by a number of regulations under which the Government of the Republic of Serbia manages Serbia. This is a matter that should have been addressed by an emergency procedure, not the choice of a member of the High Council of Justice. In the end, I have to point out one finding, that DOS and on this matter are late, as well as all other jobs it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21415	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21416	I am taking advantage of the opportunity that the non-democrat president of the National Assembly is not here, to point out the violations of the Rules of Procedure made at the beginning of the discussion of this agenda, so I would like to introduce you to the position of Article 1 176. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says, "The reasoned proposals for the selection of officials in the field of justice and administration are submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration." I would like to inform you that the Serbian Supreme Court has written to the Justice and Administration Committee and provided him with the names of candidates for the High Council of Justice. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Justice and Administration wrote to the National Assembly and provided three biographies of the person proposed by the Supreme Court of Serbia as a permanent member of the High Council of Justice. This is where the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee should come out, which is his business obligation, to introduce us to the proposals, to explain the proposals, not to go after Serbia and propagate the law on the lustration of dictatorship in Serbia. It would be much better if he were in the congregation business, what he might be successful at, and a lot of judges were elected on his proposal. I don't know if that's what people are or aren't, and that's what you thought about when you voted on it. At least 250 MPs listen to him here, and there were no 15 in mythins like the one in kickinda. Here, 25, I admit 25, as much as he says. We will not interfere in this business of yours, of course. You've imagined something very difficult to achieve. At a time when you were at peace, accepting some laws even though you weren't in agreement with them, this was born. Now it has to grow. You now have proposals for members of the High Council of Justice, so you need a lot of time to coordinate these proposals, and then in the biographies people have to state when they co-operated with DOS, and not when they co-operated with the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia and with the SPS. Apparently, a man who is 80 years old had to work with the Alliance of Communists, there's no way he was a judge without working at least with the Union of Communists without talking about time against whom you have many stories. So, choose whatever you want, do whatever you want, don't brag about what you call democracy, because it's so far from democracy and beyond, so that the citizens of Serbia are absolutely clear. The laws of justice have not reached either efficiency, justice, inviolability, or freedom from political oligarchy. You didn't do any of that. The truth is that you replaced some people who probably belonged to the political parties of the former regime, brought in other people who boast in their biographies when they collaborated with you. This should not be the basis for selecting people who have before them only the Constitution and the laws of this country. The president of the National Assembly must not refer us to any other law, to tell us how we will conduct the procedure in the National Assembly. We are conducting the procedure here under our laws, based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Each of you who considers that the Rules of Procedure are not in accordance with some law shall adapt to the Rules of Procedure, so you have a sufficient majority. What would it look like if I now started working here in this assembly under the statutes of the SRS? To me, it's the highest law since the Constitution of this country. Then you'd tell me, if it didn't say it in the Rules of Procedure, we could do it in the party. Well, neither is this, what you are doing now, written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, except for the dictatorship of the majority. For one change, Serbia is ruled by a minority dictatorship. If DOS is the majority in Serbia, it is now highly discriminatory, DOS is ruled by minorities, and that means that Serbia is ruled by minorities. You'll have to shake it off. Open the first and second pages of today's daily newspaper - each DOS party speaks differently and each has a marketing move that endangers the basic DOS postulates. It won't last very long, it'll snap like a soap balloon soon. If at least the courts were to work under the Constitution and the law, I would again be satisfied with what DOS did, at least that, but I cannot be satisfied, because I have not yet found a citizen satisfied with the work of courts in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21417	People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21418	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will remind you that during the November of last year we held a broad and multi-day debate on the reform of our judiciary and that during that debate we practically said everything we had to say. I do not think, in the meantime, that as representatives of the authorities who supported the laws which, in our opinion, reformed the judiciary, i.e. as representatives of the opposition that opposed these laws, we have acquired some new arguments, other than those mentioned and which, rightly speaking in an unrepresentative way, about us as representatives who started the process of reforming our judiciary; and, then, after that basic prerequisite that was reached through the vote of the law on justice, stood at the right pace through the appointment, let's say, the High Council of Justice. There's no excuse for anything like that. That is why I think it is necessary in an effective debate to extend the kind of work that has been done so far. We, as a member group of DOS, will take care of everything the proposings had to tell us in the previous months and, of course, about the biographies with which MPs are familiar, support the Faculty of Law professor at the Department of Administrative Law, Mr Tomic, without prejudice to the credibility of other proposed candidates. We think that it is a person who deserves that kind of support and we expect, personally and from the High Council of Justice, to do everything to make our paternal system the way Serbia deserves, depolitised, efficient, absolutely not as it is today. I think that we are as the parliamentary majority to speed up such a process, among other things through the concrete support that we are giving it in this case. I call on Members of the Republic's Parliament to participate in an adequate manner in the debate, to criticise the proposed candidate if they have an argument for something like that or to support those persons, without questioning their professionalism through biographies that have been properly presented to us and in which they are very carefully listed all the key points that profile a person as a candidate for a very important state function, what is this function in the High Council of Justice. In the fact that Mr Tomic was engaged in the Commission of Legal Experts at the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, which established the truth about the election theft in the local elections in 1996 and 1997, I see nothing that would degrade him as a candidate. On the contrary, it is something that speaks of this person precisely affirmatively, drawing him as a professional who is willing to engage in business that is undoubtedly of exceptional social importance. So that's why we, among other things, support him. We don't consider him a party candidate, nor do I think he would agree to such a thing. Thank you and, certainly, the DOS parliamentary group does not have the kind of dilemma that has been present with the opposition's representatives, while there is no excuse for this kind of delay that has been measured for months.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21419	Do any of the presidents or representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no registered presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, I am opening a search in order, as is the order of business order, and how the parliamentary groups have submitted statements for the word. The first to be reported is MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia was expecting a reform of the pavilion, which has been announced since 5 October 2000, and continues continuously, that the material position of the judiciary will be improved, that human reform will be carried out, as much as those who do not meet DOS criteria will leave the judiciary. However, in the reform of the judiciary, not one step has moved away. There has never been a worse situation in Serbia's judiciary than it is at the moment. It was expected that after the adoption of the Law on Justice would move towards reform, a reform that would be visible and that Serbia's citizens would be able to exercise their rights as soon as possible. It is alarming and very important, so it should be pointed out, that hundreds of thousands of cases are pending in Serbia today, and that some cases and some cases last 10, 20, even 30 years. The new authorities were expected to make the judiciary effective, that it would be rational, but the judiciary expected that the state, or the new rule of law, would carry out its promise to the judiciary and its obligations, namely to improve the material position of the holders of judicial functions; I should add, not only to the holders of judicial functions, but also to those 12,000 workers who work in the judiciary, whose salaries are really small and whose existence depends on the mercy of the new government. You have the opportunity to see to it that for months it has been announced by means of public information that the salaries of judicial officials will be 1,000 marks. Why lie to the holders of judicial functions, why commit fraud to them, why are false promises given to them? Serbian citizens expect judicial officials and courts to be effective and rational. A number of cases are in court today. Efficiency has dropped, rather than the efficiency of solving cases has increased and citizens are faster to exercise their rights. Lately, the new government has been taking a lot of action in the judiciary through its individuals. The judiciary has not been depolitised, even on the contrary, the judiciary has been so politicised that every day we have the opportunity to hear from public information and the media that in an inappropriate way severe pressure is being placed on Serbia's judiciary, not directly, but very perfiduously and very incorrectly towards the judiciary. That is why even resistances and judicial convictions appear -- why some politicians are so involved in the work of the judiciary. We didn't get any information from the Supreme Court, the Justice Committee, here, about how a decision was taken at the Supreme Court session against these candidates who are being proposed. We don't know who he is, how many votes and how he got. That is why the Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to raise hands from the judiciary by politicians, not to influence them, not to interfere, because it has a very harmful effect on the work of the judicial authorities. This aside and involvement in the work of the legislative and judicial authorities is absolutely unacceptable, as it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is certain that you from the majority in this House have accepted this proposal in advance, which will be adopted today, but the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this proposal. Surely what the Serbian Radical Party is telling you is that the next elections will include some other composition in this assembly, which will not allow parties to interfere in the work of the judiciary and Serbian radicals to advocate that much is not being taken into account by the courts, that the relationship in the judiciary must be resolved, that many family ties in this direction must be resolved, that justice, friendship, and nepotism in the judiciary must be resolved. A link between individuals in the judiciary and administration, legal holders, lawyers and individuals having a direct influence on how it should be ruled in which case - it must finally be abandoned from that practice and indeed, in one quite fair and legal way, the justice of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, as the situation in the judiciary is presented in the media today, it can only be said that a number of court presidents have been replaced, that new people who have no working experience even one day in the judiciary, which is fatal and a disaster for the judiciary. You know, in England, he can't become a judge who didn't turn 50 and that he worked in justice on all the jobs. We just need him to graduate from law school to pass a judicial exam; to be a few months professional associate or to be employed as an intern with a private, who has three employees and that private person to make a recommendation and a proposal; he says - he's worthy of doing a judicial function, he's qualified and professional, and never entered the court to represent any case. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you, but it is high time that from the Supreme Court, down below, the situation in the judiciary is resolved, because it absolutely does not meet the needs of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21421	The word has the people's emissary Branko Pavlovic, followed by MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several questions that deserve to be considered here, related to this proposal by the Serbian Supreme Court on the completion of the High Council of Justice. We'll start from easier to harder questions. First of all, is this about an authorised promoter? Yes, there is a certain discrepancy between our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Law on the High Council of Justice, but since the law is a stronger legal act, the law is applied and there is, in fact, no more serious legal interpretation of any void, which could not be filled. Another problem is the delay; we heard it was a delay and I must say that in this case it is the responsibility of the Supreme Court of Serbia. So it's not about politicians being obstructed or delayed. As you can see on your benches, May 9 marks the candidate's biography. We have previously received a proposal from the Supreme Court of Serbia without any biographies of candidates. Of course, the National Assembly and MPs are not in a position to declare themselves at all when they do not have the elemental information that the Serbian Supreme Court is proposing, and I must say that in this case, this responsibility for the delay falls exclusively on the Supreme Court of Serbia, without talking about not seeing who submitted this, because there are no headers. We had some more details of technical nature; so the Serbian Supreme Court addressed the Justice and Administration Committee. Serbia's Supreme Court is communicating with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and he is referring his proposal to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then he continues to see how and how he will act. These are some procedural shortcomings that have made it impossible for this parliament to put this item on the agenda earlier. That wasn't possible, not our fault this time, and I'm not going to say that there aren't any other parts, but in this particular case there was no political guilt. It's usually said that politicians always cook something, and this time it's not the case. The biggest and most important thing here is, and I'm gonna put you back a little bit, that's the concept that we wanted to go to the High Council of Justice. It was as follows: to remind you, the High Justice Council deals with the choice of judges and public prosecutors, that is, their deputies; we wanted to establish rules of profession in this way, that by overcoming the articles of choice, they were judges, or prosecutors. In some previous version of the draft, it was that the National Assembly chose two members of the High Council of Justice, and then at the speed of the amendments it changed and one position was given to the Bar. It's okay that it's been given, but it remains a mistake, so the second one is proposed by the Serbian Supreme Court. The initial combination included a farting by the Supreme Court of Serbia and a Republic Public Prosecutor. Why? In this way, the Republic Public Prosecutor would propose three prosecutors, and when we choose one, only so will the High Council of Justice have a majority, four members of the prosecutor's organisation and three not. This way he won't. When it comes to judges, the High Council of Justice will have most judges when it elects judges, but when it elects prosecutors in this election it will not and the legal concept is violated. Exactly what Mr Ivosevic said, there is indeed a provision that says that the proposal made by the Supreme Court of Serbia cannot be from the ranks of judges and prosecutors, because this was set for this article we gave to the Bar of Lawyers. What was Serbia's Supreme Court supposed to do? He should have made an effort to offer us among these candidates one who was once a public prosecutor, so that we would then be in a position to give prosecutors equal treatment during the election, as judges do. It's fair, they're colleagues, and they're very important to us both, both institutions. This was to be done by the Serbian Supreme Court, if we are already defined as proposing pensioners. So, Mr. Petrovic, I know, he's a kind of lawyer and I don't mind, but if he's already in the concept of being a pensioner, he could have been a retired and someone who used to be a prosecutor, he could've been a lawyer to someone who was formerly a prosecutor, could've been someone from a university professor, maybe someone from criminal law, someone who was closer to that prosecutor's organization. All prosecutors and deputies in this country know that there is one discrepancies, and that is what happens when amendments in a larger number change legislative proposals and that it is not the intention of this parliament to make them less valuable in the system, through the composition of the High Council of Justice, but rather we are put in a position that we cannot now, whether we want to or not, make that balance. I think that the Supreme Court of Serbia, with a little more hearing and a little more understanding, could have put forward a proposal that would maintain a basic concept of the High Council of Justice, which is that the profession has a decisive word when it comes to elections, regardless; the judge has it provided, but the prosecutors will not have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21423	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran D. Nikolic, followed by the National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21424	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this point, which has come to us this way, is, however, an opportunity to speak about the consequences of judicial reform, which we talked about in November of last year and which we have achieved a high degree of consent in this House, which has personally encouraged me, because I thought that we really, as Parliament, have given sufficient support to the idea of creating a truly free and independent judicial system. But the very fact that almost half a year after the law was passed, we are now pulling some first half-steps, related to its implementation and concrete realization, says that on the sides of the DOS, or the assembly majority, there is really no sincere desire to see this fundamental reform of the judicial system and come and really get a free and independent judiciary. It is probably still needed as it is, that part of that system, unfortunately, serves to fight political insinuates. If it's someone's motive, it's not a good motive. If this is the first step to really get out of this story, then let's welcome it; but I have to say that there are still many steps left to ensure the fundamental reform of the judicial system and its transformation into one of the pillars of government in this country, as we wrote in the Constitution. Because if we truly wanted an independent and free judiciary, then we would certainly have made a choice so far by the Constitutional Court judges, who in this Republic are not working for almost two years; that we really want a free and independent judiciary, then we would probably have more respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court; so we are coming into a situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the first one who does not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, regardless of what the Constitution says that they are mandatory and enforceable for all and everyone, and also for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then we would not be in a position for the governor of the NBJ to approach the decisions of the federal court, and not only the decisions of the federal court, which annul the decisions of the NBJ and its governor, but even the judges who made the decision. That in the rule of law, in a country where we really want free and independent justice, can't happen. It cannot happen that we want a free and independent judiciary, that the minister promises six months ago to pay 1,000-mark legal holders, for which he would certainly have reached a consensus in this parliament if he had decided on the matter. However, he is not in charge of this, the Pope of a time says he has never said that, leaving people with a truly false hope that this government and this government are sincerely intending to do something to improve the material position of judicial officials. For it is clear to all of us that without this material independence, as components, they are free of good laws, free of good solutions; if the judge as an individual is not and is not materially independent, it will not be. If we really cared about an independent judiciary, then we would read the law we passed in November of the month, so today we would not only choose one of the three candidates for a member of the High Council of Justice, but we would see that in Article 18 of the same law it says that the National Assembly determines compensation for the work of members of the High Council of Justice. Are we going to go back to the next session to throw in the hill-down points that we're going to determine that fee, because it's not logical that if you give a very broad authority and competence to a single authority, which we've defined to be running a human rights policy in the judiciary and that it's being watched over by the judiciary in general, you don't give it a material basis because the National Assembly didn't find it appropriate to implement the decision itself through the Law on the High Council of Justice. All of this suggests that the reforms of the judiciary have essentially come formally, in a way, as if someone cares that in front of the Council of Europe or I don't know who, let's hit another line and say, "Here, we've reformed this area of our social life, and what happens next, we don't care." When we look at the achievements in the reform of the fiscal system, when we look at the achievements in the reform of this education system, in the reform of economy and privatisation, then I think we can really conclude that this year and a half of the reforms have been understood as a mere and empty form. What about the last ten years? ) We can talk about the past ten, and about the past 60 and 160 years, if we're going to get something smart out of it, but it's our right to say what we think about this speaker. Because we formally understood this whole story, and neither of this election, which is ahead of us, I expect too much and I don't expect it to contribute essentially to judicial reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21425	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21426	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is in front of us on the agenda to elect a member of the High Council of Justice. I think it's a very important thing. We have all agreed here, even all previous speakers, whether they come as representatives of ruling parties or opposition, about the need for urgent and consistent judicial reform. The fact is that so far, in the current period of development of our society, especially after World War II, the judiciary has been extremely dependent on political power centers and it has been right in the past ten years. It is certain that judges and judges, who have exactly 10,000 in Serbia, are funded as members of the ruling parties in the previous regime. That's how they're chosen, that's how they're set up. It is certain that judges who previously wore political biographies and thus came to our Serbian judiciary were dependent on those political factors that they proposed and later chose in these courts. We, as DOS, have advocated our pre-election campaign for consistent judicial reform, which includes the humane cleansing of all those who have tried past the law, who have placed people in an unequal position before the law, who have made political decisions, which have been ordered by certain officials or centres of power. In the bids that we have seen here, we also have a candidate who is supported by the Democratic Party to which I belong and who in his biography has shown that he has advocated the equality of all participants in the court proceedings before the law, has advocated a study of the truth in connection with the 1996 election theft, which, even to this day and day, has not been fully clarified with regard to its participants, the inspirers; because these participants and election thieves have conducted through the judiciary this electoral theft, and until today their perpetrators have been punished and have not left the judiciary. As for the concept of completing the High Council of Justice, I think it is necessary and necessary, but on the other hand, I cannot possibly be satisfied that this topic is being put into session of this congregation in this very way. Such a proposal, which does not even contain an explanation of how the application was done, as a decision was made at the General Court session of the Supreme Court, this is how it was addressed to the National Assembly without a header, without an explanation, as a lawyer, I can say that with me, the submission of this kind of procedure would be rejected, because on the formal side it is incomplete, unclear and cannot be adequately decided. You can't tell what these biographies are about. It is not seen how the application procedure for these persons has passed and the decision of the General Session of the Supreme Court on the basis of which these candidates are proposed. I agree with one of the previous speakers that the Supreme Court in its general session was to propose a candidate to the Assembly, so that we can plead on it. I will join the proposal to elect Mr. Zoran Tomic as a member of this high state body and very significant, but I will also remind myself of all those obligations that this high state body has in judicial reform, where human resources policy, i.e. the choice of high-level judicial and prosecutorial functions, is very important. In our judiciary, in courts and prosecutors, there are still people who have done their job irresponsiblely and by law, still no electoral thefts have received their epilogue in such a way that they will be resolved from these functions in the judiciary and the prosecution, they have not received adequate penalties; although some have been prosecuted, judicial proceedings against the defendants, such as Nis, against members of the Electoral Commission in Nis, where and the President of the District Court, the district attorney and other high-level judicial officers were members of this election commission; a procedure has been conducted but has been suspended in a completely illegal manner. We have also heard here the promise of the current president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, when she came, when she was running before the Assembly for the post, that the situation in the judiciary would absolutely change, that all those who have sinned against the law would be permanently removed. To this day, that wasn't the case. On the one hand, we witnessed the initiative submitted by Minister Batic, the minister of justice, who was also published in the means of public information, where a consistent examination of the responsibilities of all judicial officials who participated in these election thefts and who disobeyed the law. That, to this day, is not done. On the other hand, one inconsistencies of human resources with regard to the holders of judicial functions has been observed. This inconsistency is considered primarily in the case of people sitting in courts who have a greater number of years than the legislation prescribed and longer working time than prescribed by law, and that selectively against individuals requires the resolution and termination of the judicial office, if it is for people who are seeking a consistent execution of the pre-election promises of the DOS, which is a lustration in the judiciary, the exclusion from the judiciary of all those who have sinned against the law. So here, in front of the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly, we had the opportunity to see an initiative to determine the termination of the functions of individual judges who have just advocated purification in accordance with the law of those who have wronged the law. On the other hand, in the Supreme Court, from which the initiative has been launched, judges who meet the conditions are also sitting down to determine the termination of the court's office, but they are not being prosecuted. I therefore hope that this state body, which is to initiate the appointment or resolution of judges and prosecutors, will work fairly, consistently and in accordance with the law, will execute the depolitisation of the judiciary, separate the judiciary from the influence of political centres of power; but not only those who are now in position, not only of the ruling parties who are now exercising executive power and who now have a majority in parliament, but also of those political centres of power that were and ruled in the previous regime; they have left a deep political trail in our Serbian judiciary, they have extended their members to the judges and prosecutors; to just execute depoliticalisation and to remove those who continue to depend on the parties of the previous regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21427	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. This would have exhausted a list of registered speakers. According to the Rules of Procedure, the right to address the Assembly is once again given to the presidents of parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21428	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Ivosevic, and he is gone, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected journalists, it is interesting that as one of the important reasons for us to choose a representative, or a member of the High Legal Council, we are offered a number of arguments, but the interest of the MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly on this subject is obviously not an adequate story we heard at the beginning. Here, now, there are hundreds of people sitting in the benches, so when I finish what I am saying, I will ask you, Mrs. Comic, to determine how many indeed popular MPs are attending the debate and how much they want to participate in the selection of members of the High Legal Council. It's mine. Socialists are MPs in opposition, but they won't be long. [[Sagar.]] And these, yours, have to be here while they're in power, if they're in power. Don't worry about it. [[Sagar.]] But let's get back to the basic problem. You're always very upset with the story of the number of MPs attending parliament. Mr Tomislav Nikolic was absolutely right. The provisions of Articles 49 and 176 have been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the second position of Articles 49 and 176. Rules of procedure regarding what we're supposed to do here. It was really logical for the committee responsible to communicate with the President of the National Assembly, and the Supreme Court in communication with the President of the National Assembly, to do this in a manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. We've been put here in a position to plead about people we hardly know anything about, except what they wrote themselves. Some distinguished gentlemen, who here seem to have the most serious chance of being elected to this important and high function, write a chapter in the first person and sign in the first person, and in the second person they report biographic data. It would be good for them to write their own text that they call autobiography, because it says here; or, to write it in another person or to do it on their behalf, because this is how they leave the impression of the elemental ignorance of spelling. You said that this way and some other solutions will lead to improved efficiency in our judiciary. I think that in certain segments is very effective. Let's say, the other day, the municipal SPS board in Piroth filed a complaint with the District Court, it was a trivial dispute with local heat, so the case at the Supreme Court was settled in three days. Congratulations on your efficiency. I hope that this principle will also be applied in some other cases and procedures that have been conducted for several years, of course. Two of the three candidates proposed are certainly persons who are very attached to the political engagement that has to do with DOS. That's what they wrote here. Mr. Zoran Tomic says, among other things, he is a member of the CESID Management Board. You DOS guys know best what CESID is, you know who's funding it, and you know where his plant is. Not much of a recommendation for an independent judiciary in Serbia. If I were to identify myself on the basis of what it says here, and we will see how we will vote from the SPS, I would say that Mr Dragoljub Petrovic, regardless of his age, since he was born on the Mine – and that people from such a mine area have never fled from the white, even in 1813, when the Serbian uprisings went wrong, only four dukes Milic Drinčić, Nikola Lunjevica, Lazar Mutap and Milos Obrenovic, never crossed the Sava, they stayed in Serbia with their people -- and then perhaps I could vote for Mr Dragoljub Petrovic. I ask the exclaimers of your Democratic Party headlines to behave as if they were MPs. They're having a hard time affecting my concentration. What they influence today is called the regime in Serbia, and it is a nasty, resilient, critical, and every day it is put on a lot of pressure, and a large number of Serbian citizens. Of course, there has been a disharm between what the legislator of several laws in the field of justice wanted to achieve and what a number of DOS parties today want to execute; but that is the problem of that coalition, it is not us from the SAA and other opposition MPs. We'll agree on how to vote with this, but Mrs. Komic, please, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and the rights that this Rules of Procedure provides, to determine whether there are enough MPs in the National Assembly that the Assembly can work normally and uninterruptedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21429	The right given to you by the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic, includes the obligation to know how to apply the rights of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I understand that you have not used the rights of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since it is my duty to refer the MP to the use of his rights and obligations, I refer you to a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which regulates the question of quorum, and I remind you that you have the right to seek the word again as a People's MP and to make a proposal according to the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. One of the presidents of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) Does the Proposer’s representative want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no more entries for the word, I am concluding the search and we are moving on to a decision. On the basis of Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is possible for the election of a permanent member of the High Council of Justice to be made by an electronic system, which is a public vote, by public vote - by raising hands and by calling for MPs. Does the National Assembly have a proposal on how to hold the vote? MP Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21430	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I propose that we take advantage of the benefits of electronic voting and thus execute the selection of a permanent member of the High Council for Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21431	I am putting to the vote a proposal from the People's Parliament to declare the National Assembly on the proposed candidates by means of an electronic system. For 113, no one with abstentions voted 36 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to declare candidates by means of an electronic system. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, proposed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21432	On the basis of Article 82, I am expressing my doubts about the existence of a quorum identified by electronic means during this vote and in order to get a listing, I demand that we first determine how many MPs are present in the hall and how many are not. I warn you that my suspicion is justified because there are many bright squares in places where there are no MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-05-09-0.u21433	Thank you. On the proposal of the MP, I ask the Service to provide him with a listing, and the MPs to move on to the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for work, the electronic system has currently identified 126 MPs, which make up DOS and DSS MPs. Given that the Assembly has made the decision to declare ourselves by voting through the electronic system, I would like to put the motions delivered by the authorised promoter to the vote. I remind you that an MP can vote for, against, to be abstention, or not to vote. I ask the MPs to declare themselves to candidate Mirjana Rasic. I ask the MPs to repeat this vote, and I am informing the Office of the electronic system of the cancellation of this vote. I ask the MPs to make a statement as to who is for the proposal that a member of the Visa Council of Justice be Mirjana Rasic. For 10, against three, abstentioned 92, did not vote 30, out of 135 MPs. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting on a proposal for candidate Zoran Tomic. Here you go. For 107, no one, with an abstention of 17, voted 13, out of 137 MPs. I'm voting on a proposal for candidate Dragoljub Petrovic. For three, against 23, abstained 93, no vote was cast on 20, out of 139 MPs. I find the National Assembly with 107 votes in favour, and out of 137 MPs, it has elected candidate Zoran Tomic as a member of the High Council of Justice. Let me congratulate Mr. Zoran Tomic on your behalf and on my behalf and wish him much success in his work. [[Applause]] This concludes the work on this agenda and continues the work of today's session at 15.00 hours. I apologize to the MPs present, a brief announcement, there has been a misunderstanding over the time of this session, the first session of the regular session. We're not continuing today at 15.00 hours, we're continuing Monday at 10.00 hours. Thank you and I'll see you Monday. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that 150 MPs have registered with the official record. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs present, since we have been finding the quorum inappropriately for a long time, despite the fact that we have 157 registered MPs on official record, I find it inappropriate for Members who regularly come and fulfil their constitutional and parliamentary obligations to remain in the hall. Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its regulations will be decided by the Administrative Board and by the regulations of the assembly. I would like to inform the MPs present that we will have a new quorum in 12 hours and 15 minutes. [[After break - 12.40.]] I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 157 MPs attend today's session. In order for us to begin our work, I ask you to establish a quorum and ask all MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that we have a quorum for work and I am informing the MPs that at 12.20, there were 180 MPs on official notice. I also ask all the MPs present in the hall to take their MPs' obligation to register when determining the quorum. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Dragan Jočić, Branko Besevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Olgica Kircanski, Petar Misic, Dusan Budišin, Juhas Atila, Teodora Vlahović, Kermeci Karolj, Allen Selimović, Cedomir Jovanovic, Vasilija Pavićić, Momir Radoičić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic and Rajko Baralić. MP Zeljko Tomic will be late for today's session. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Secretariat for Law. Also, according to Articles 83 and 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasa Micic, invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, representatives of the Student Union of Serbia, representatives of the Alliance of Students of Belgrade, students of the Constitutional Law Group at the University of Belgrade, representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Niscal Student Association and representatives of the Student Federation. I welcome, on behalf of the President of the National Assembly, the guests present. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
