ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17290	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests, a significant segment of the mandate given to the parties of the parliamentary majority and to the Republic government is seen in a request for implementation of systematic reforms, which will result in the establishment of a modern, democratic and efficient system whose synonym is a legal state. The importance and place of the local self-government system under these circumstances has been said a lot during a months-long public debate on the topic of the new law governing this area, and the conclusion in this respect is unique: the developed local self-government in a decentralised public authority system is one of the fundamental principles of modern democracy. It is the first and most unorthodox step in the way of achieving a series of basic rights and citizens' interests. When we consider a system of local self-government that is in place, and represents a difficult legacy of the socialist and former post-socialist regime, three groups of problems are easily seen. First, municipalities are deposed by the gradual narrowing of competences, resulting in a legally disabled system of local self-government, property-indulgent municipalities, functionally impoverished municipal administration. Finally, in this way a whole series of public functions, which refers to some existential and essential rights and interests of citizens, has been raised to the level of public authority, which is often unreachable to the users of these services. Secondly, directly related to the previous problem is also the issue of municipal financing. The volume of participation of local self-government units in total public revenues is extremely modest. The key problem is certainly the lack of municipal property, i.e. a significant limitation of property rights, which was established by the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. The third group of problems relates to the functioning of local self-government authorities. At this point, the organisation model of local authorities is in place, which is one of the latest relics of the socialist social system. It's about the so-called system. the unity of the government of the collective and executive body of the municipality, with unclear legal and functional links with the municipal administration and with the protocol, and in practice hypertrophysed, the function of the president of the municipality. In these conditions, a number of problems arise in the functioning of local authorities. In practice, it is not always clear who makes decisions, who implements them and, ultimately, who bears political responsibility for the work of municipal authorities. Political responsibility is certainly completely clouded, quite vague, and it represents the fundamental principle of the functioning of democratic authorities, because citizens in that forest of mutual relations of municipal authorities cannot recognise what our people would say - neither who drinks nor who pays. Finally, the municipality and its administration are understood exclusively as forms of public authority, not as local communities with their specificities and development needs, exclusively as forms of the public sector, which is a traditional understanding of the organisation of state bodies, but not of modern trends in the integration of the public and civil sectors. When it comes to a valid constitutional context, the Constitution of the SRJ and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia do not provide an adequate basis for a comprehensive reform of the local self-government system. For example, Articles 73. The Constitution of the SRJ found that all assets, immovableities, public goods used by municipal authorities, services, or public enterprises the founder of municipalities, represented social property, i.e. state property, i.e. the property of which is the holder of the Republic of Serbia. This is a neural question. It could not be solved at this time, but the problem will not be delayed for long because there is no essential self-government, or autonomy without its own property. The territorial organisation is also constitutional-legal matter. In this respect, as regards the examination of the local self-government system, at this point, the existing territorial organisation should be taken into account. The fact is that changes are possible in terms of the number of municipalities and cities, but in the drafting of the law on local self-government, the assumption that the existing system, so-called, will continue in the future. strong municipalities, i.e. territorial and populational relatively large units of local self-government, compared to individual comparative models that exist in the practice of European countries, as a form that is only sufficient and adequate for the exercise of the rights and interests of citizens and communities entering the body of the rights of local self-government. In addition, it is important to point out that when the law was drawn up, there was no significant shift towards future establishment of the city’s status, i.e. clear legal definition (i.e. Differentiation of specifics) of the city relative to the municipality. By order of Article 117. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a city decorated as a municipality, with two or more city municipalities. This is certainly an unsatisfactory definition, which at the same time represents significant restrictions in terms of expanding the existing circle of cities in Serbia, as well as a provision that does not provide any basis for closer urban planning. The proposal for a law on local self-government, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia and its expert group, which was the holder of the law's work, is an act afirming the principles of decentralisation. The broad meaning of this term, understood in a dynamic form as a process of transferring powers, establishing a larger field of autonomous decision-making and legal regulation of certain social relations, in the proposed law on local self-government, has been given its legal articulation, corresponding at an existing moment to a long process of reform, redefine and revision of the current legal order. When considering a basic issue often identified and unfairly exhausted by the term decentralisation, which is the question of determining the original powers, the original competences of the local self-government units, or their expansion, it must be pointed out that the basic principle in considering the concrete part-circularity was functionality, the rational decentralisation that comes from the principles of functionality, is based on the principle that they do not retain jobs and tasks in a structurally higher form of public authority if they can be equally well carried out at a lower level. Finally, decentralisation is not a value to itself, but must be observed within that framework of the functionality of certain solutions. In the draft law decentralisation is developed in several aspects. First of all, in addition to the existing section, the direction of extending the original competences of local self-government units - for example, in the fields of education, health care, culture, social and children's protection. It is important to point out that this legal act will, as a fundamental law in the area of the local self-government system, so-called. by means of a system law, establish new competences that will once again be governed by specific sectoral laws which are otherwise governed by a specific area. The gradual expansion of the original competences of municipalities and cities is imposed as a realistic and rational process, which will take place in several phases of changes in relevant laws, compared to a process that must monitor the decentralisation process, which is to strengthen the capacity of local self-government authorities. There is a big difference between local self-government units in terms of institutional, material, infrastructure, personal and other opportunities. In these conditions, the imperative of the minimum of certain functions in all municipalities, or the achievement of functions in all municipalities defined as the original work of local self-government units is set out. This diversity of our municipalities and cities was a war of legions of another newspaper in the process of decentralisation. The law lays down a legal basis for selectively entrusting certain transactions to certain units of local self-government. This specifically means, depending on the nature of a specific business from the work of the department of state bodies, organisational needs and opportunities, that it is more efficiently realised by local self-government of a particular circle of municipalities and cities. We believe that the implementation of this provision would mean that, in the process of examining the front circumstances, interactive communication with all local self-governments would take place and respect the position of their authorities with regard to taking such a new obligation, thus adopting the principle of jurisdiction that exists in some modern legal systems, but so far there is no constitutional basis for us. Finally, we must not forget that autonomous regulation of relations is the essence of self-government, and yet this aspect of the decentralisation process is often ignored. The legacy of the justice system of the past is excessive normation at the legal level. Our laws are therefore numerous, regulating the smallest and specific situations, and therefore there are frequent cases of conflict of legal provisions. Access to a new law on local self-government is completely different. At first glance, there is the impression that there are legal gaps, unsettled relationships, even in the case of certain important issues. In fact, it is an unregulated legal space that is left intensively for the sake of closer editing of the general acts of the units of local self-government. The proposal for a law on local self-government introduces a brand-new model of the organisation of local authorities. In advance, there were problems facing both citizens and public authorities in municipalities and cities, according to an existing organisation of local authorities. In short, it is a system of hypertrophy of the political team's body and confusion of their responsibility. Therefore, as regards the organisation of local authorities, the legislator was identified as the most radical cut. First of all, it must be pointed out that there is neither an ideal nor a typical model of the organisation of local authorities; any proposal for a new body structure and their organisation can have both good and bad sides, and this applies to a model defined by the law on local self-government. In any case, it came from the assumption that the found state is unsustainable and that change is necessary. And then the question arises -- what kind of organization do we want of local authorities? In an attempt to give an adequate answer to this question, the legislator has taken the reference position of a citizen, an individual who is trying to exercise his or her right or interest in the authorities of local self-government, i.e. to influence the direction of development and manage its environment, city, municipality and place. It is in the interest of this citizen that the municipality functions primarily effectively, that it is clearly aware of who is responsible for its operation, that the municipal administration is functional, that there are adequate legal protection instruments and that, ultimately, it does not cost too much. Starting precisely from the interests of citizens and progressive orientation of the local environment, we believe that the proposed model meets the greatest extent of these interests. It is proposed to introduce a clean, simple model, with a smaller number of entities and their clear rights and obligations that could be defined as a system of consistent division of power. The normative authority shall be a assembly of municipalities consisting of directly elected committees, the competences of the SO shall constitute powers for the adoption of general acts, planning documents, budgets, the exercise of founding rights, the appointment and resolution of its bodies, the President and the Vice-President of the Assembly, as well as the Secretary of the Assembly, the giving of opinions and consent, the initiation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court in order to protect the rights of local self-government and other affairs established by law and statute. The assembly of the municipality is chaired by the president of the assembly that has one deputy. The law does not specifically regulate the existence of a special service for congregation work. This isn't about the legal void, how the impression might be obtained, it's about leaving empty space to be arranged by autonomous acts of local self-government. A special place in the functioning of the municipality's assembly, according to a new system of local authorities, should be taken up by assembly committees, commissions and other permanent and temporary bodies. In view of the fact that the main function of the promoters of general acts is the executive body, i.e. the president of the municipality through its professional services, these proposals would be the subject of a fundamental debate at committee and committee meetings, since there is often no time option at the meeting of the Assembly. In addition, committees would be an instrument of control of the work of executive bodies, a place for expert discussion of concrete issues involving a number of entities. For these reasons, there is a possibility for municipalities to provide for their acts that board members can be, in addition to the committees, and citizens, experts in certain areas, as well as meetings of the same, in the narrow, parliamentary and wider composition, without the need to define the special censorship of the committee. The public work of these committees, the invitation of all relevant, interested parties to individual discussions and the possibility of the presence of citizens are essential for setting these assembly bodies at the heart of the regulatory process of local self-government. According to the proposal for a law on local self-government, the holder of the executive authority is the president of the municipality, i.e. the mayor. He's elected in the direct secret election. As an organ of strong political legitimacy and broad authority, the president of the municipality is a key body of the new organisation of local authorities. The reason for such a solution, which has been defined by the government expert group working on lawmaking, is reflected in the specifics of local community management and municipal administration, seen through the prism of modern organisation systems in the economy, public and civil sectors, the international environment, all of which requires a high degree of efficiency of policy decision-makers. The President of the Municipality shall unite the executive and administrative function, the proposer of the general and individual acts of SO, the supervisory body of the municipal administration and the person authorised to represent the municipality as a legal person has been authorised. Obviously, it is said of a local community leader who is given the mandate to propose the way and direction of its development, gives a vision of the solution to its problems, executes the decisions of the SO, organises the management of the work of the municipal administration and, most importantly, puts his name and name as collateral, before the citizens of his municipality who chose him, for the integrity and legality of his conduct. In this way, political, but also each other, the law provides for a clear articulation of responsibility, attaches itself to one person. Switching to the mayor's system will also have its negative side effects, such as populism, forms of political cohabitation from a negative aspect, inadequate personal solution and so on, but it is a minimum price for the process of modernising and transforming an outdated, inefficient, intransparent and expensive mechanism of local authorities. The president of the municipality may be called off in the same way as he chooses, by direct public statement, on the basis of a proposal from a number of voters (as a censorship of the total electoral body), a qualified majority of the municipality's parliament (more than half of the total composition), as well as on a proposal from the Government regarding the work of trusted businesses. The municipal administration is closely tied to the president of the municipality. With a single administration in municipalities of up to 50,000 inhabitants, the head of staff appointed and dismissed by the president of the municipality. In the larger municipalities, several municipal administrations are found in the university, headed by the heads of the directors who are directly appointed and resolved by the president of the municipality. There may also be a certain change in the nomenclature: the Secretary-General, for example the Secretary-General for Construction Affairs, will be replaced by the Head of the Building Affairs Administration of a specific municipality. The most difficult task in drafting a new law was to edit the area of funding for local self-government. In addition to the most important constitutional restriction on the material and financial position of local self-government units, the lack of municipal property represents a significant limiting factor in the ongoing reform of the budget system in general. The system of funding for local self-government is not and cannot be complete for itself, isolated from the system of public income and expenditure. The bill does not contain important newspapers in the system of funding local self-government, but complements and improves the system that is in place. The system has been gradually developing over the past years and has developed certain specificities. As an example, the limitation of the appropriations from the sales tax per percentage and the volume of the year may be indicated on the basis of certain criteria laid down by law each year. In practice, this restriction causes violent reactions and disdain in the structures of local self-government, with the aggregate that these restrictions are unfair, so the municipalities are filled with the republican budget and so on. The essence of this mechanism is quite different - in the front way it is realised, in fact, that the transfer of committed republican funds achieved on the basis of sales tax, by avoiding the circulation of that money through the state budget and then the distribution of local self-government based on certain criteria, are already directly subject to the deduction of the municipal budget. This mechanism does not change the nature of these funds as well as the original ones, but rather generates effective collection, i.e. charging of the municipal register. Newspapers in the financing provisions also refer to the new systematisation of public revenues, source and rate, as well as to the new redistribution of public revenues to local self-government units, which now account for revenue of five taxes of 100% and part of three incomes for the use of goods of general interest. This law also covers any valid changes to the financing system, which took place during 2001. On the basis of the above, it can be noted that there is a significant degree of independence with regard to the availability of budgets by local self-government authorities, in the form of around 50% of total appropriations, representing a percentage significantly higher than the European average. Of course, the problem is not in the financing mechanism and the percentages of the redistribution of fiscal resources, which will change simultaneously with the gradual transfer of specific competences and functions to municipal authorities in the appropriate scope, but rather in the existing fiscal capacity that is limited and dependent on economic developments in society in general. Significant newspapers represent certain organisational forms, indicatively listed in the municipal administration, which nevertheless represent specific institutions of integration between the local, public and civil sectors. The main architects and main experts are the academic forms, the task of which is to help their initiatives, instructions, opinions to ensure the uniformity of the practices of certain bodies of the municipal administration, as well as specific organisations and public services in the relevant area, while, for example, the Head of the Urban and Construction Affairs Administration is, for example, in charge of dealing with individual, administrative matters and the adoption of certain acts. The main architect is a person who would be responsible for determining the vision of urban planning and for maintaining the spirit of adopted plans, as well as acts of protecting the ambital values, their revitalisation, inciting and putting into the proper function of abandoned continents and objects, making proposals for concrete solutions, etc. In addition, it is a person whom citizens and associations could address with any specific problems, whether with proposals for future solutions. The city, i.e. the municipal manager is a person who can be engaged on a contractual basis to provide professional assistance and support to the president of the municipality, as the main executive body, in business related to economic development and local environments, incentivising entrepreneurship initiatives, in matters relating to improving the conditions of business activities and attracting investment. The Council for the Development and Protection of Local Self-Government is also a university body representing a forum of citizens and representatives of local authorities, which would discuss issues of importance for the development and improvement of local self-government, i.e. its protection. The Council for International Relations is a body which represents an expression of the principle of national tolerance and which is foreseen as a permanent body in municipalities with mixed national composition. The statutes and general acts bring the shape of the body closer, the way members are elected, and a round of issues on which the council has the right to a kind of suspension act. A civil defender is introduced as a university form of Ombudsman protection of human and civil rights. It is about a local ombudsman who would act in accordance with a municipal act in matters relating to the work of municipal administration and local public services and municipal enterprises. In view of this moment, the draft ombudsman killings, as a national authority, could not in this place in the local self-government law be referred to the same application of the provisions of the future law, but it is possible to make a connection with the municipal ombudsman in that law. Two important newspapers are related to the issue of mutual relations between different levels and public authority. One is the introduction of the province's authorities, i.e. the authorities of territorial autonomy into the network of relations between central and local authorities, in the scope of the possibility that the constitutional and legal position of the autonomous province will provide for the current Constitution. The second is redefining the relationship on the application of the so-called so-called forced measures in local self-government units. The legal basis for the application of this non-popular mechanism is two specific cases: the non-session of the municipality's three-month assembly and the failure to adopt statutes or budgets within the time limit laid down by law. Provisions relating to the protection of the rights of local self-government include the Constitution of established constitutional and legal protection mechanisms, security in the administrative dispute, as well as institutions of regular judicial protection. The paper is a request for a review of the decision-making rights, under which municipal authorities have been authorised to request a review of a decision deemed to be local self-government's jurisdiction. The proposed law on local self-government is a basic and framework law in this area, which lays the foundations for reforming that system in the legal area available, limited by existing constitutional restrictions. In order to round up the first phase of the reform of the system, it is also necessary, following the adoption of this law, to adopt an electoral law, which regulates the selection of councils and presidents of the municipality and mayors, as well as a special law on the city of Belgrade, whose preparation is under way, and in which access to the prominent constitutional position of Belgrade is as a special territorial unit, as well as the importance of a metropolis that makes up a significant percentage of the total population or overall economy. It is important to point out once again that certain specific areas and full competences, based on the framework and principles set out in the proposal for a law on local self-government, will be achieved by changes in sectoral laws. Finally, the Law on Local Self-Government is the first step in reforming the local self-government system, which, as well as reforming other segments of our legal order, is a long-standing process. I would especially like to point out that this process cannot be conducted by any ministry, not even a government or any political group. If we want the best possible results of this process, it must be included as wide as possible of the subjects. In view of this, a series of precedents have been made in the process of making this law, which have not been recorded in the practice of making acts in this area so far. The initial text, originally, was a proposal by several NGOs, whose members were then included in the Serbian government's expert group, led by Vice-President Joseph Kasa. The working version of the law was already published in June and delivered to all units of local self-government, as well as to parliamentary majority parties, parliamentary clubs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, experts and institutions. The text of the version of the law has been delivered to a whole series of international organisations, and above all to the Council of Europe. I would particularly like to highlight the extraordinary co-operation with the representatives and experts of the Council of Europe. The world's largest legal organisations directly participated in the draft law and gave a positive assessment of its compliance with the standards of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Based on the results of this first round of public debate, the text of the draft law was drawn up and was followed in September by a consultation debate, the subject of which was the text of the draft law on local self-government, organised through regional seminars in six cities in Serbia, involving representatives of all municipalities and cities, as well as an expert debate that was eventually held in Belgrade. During the whole debate, intensive co-operation and interactive coordination were reached between those who are legislators of the law and the Permanent Conference of Municipalities and Cities, as a legitimate representative of the common interests of local authorities. In addition, inter-resorship coordination and co-operation have been achieved, bearing in mind that it is a system-specific regulation that is affecting a number of areas of the legal system. Finally, in this parliamentary phase of the debate on the bill, the Government has opened the door with every form of constructive contribution to the quality of the solutions offered, which is witnessed by a large number of amendments adopted, where we are just counting on the active role of MPs in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17291	I would like to thank the representative of the promoter, the minister of justice and local self-government. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who issued an opinion at committee meetings want a word? There's a word from the People's MP, Free Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17292	The Honored Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the Government, as a member of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held an opinion at the Committee session on the Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, because I believe that the amendment of MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, Mile Milosevic, Milan Markovic and Dragan Pavlovic to Article 32a, paragraph 1 where point 10a is added after point 10a, with regard to the election and resolution of members of the cabinet of the President of the Municipality, as well as amendments of the same Members to Article 45, is therefore subject to amendments to Articles 45a and 45b and amendments to Article 43, 53, 54, and which have arised from this amendment to Article 32, contrary to Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What exactly is this about? You know, fellow MPs, that the bill introduces a new way of establishing an executive local government, by direct elections, and that all the essential executive authority is concentrated in one person - the president of the municipality, or in the cities of the mayor. These amendments, which have also been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and thus become an integral part of the proposal, so we cannot particularly declare them, the cabinet of the president of the municipality is scheduled to elect and resolve the assembly of the municipality. The future cabinet is, in my opinion, the imitation of the so far executive authority that is only seemingly given to the cabinet and is essentially lost. Why is it imitation? Because it is so well-conceived by the proposal that in a political sense it decides nothing, there is no jurisdiction, and therefore no responsibility towards the citizens. Amendment 45b suggested that the cabinet assists the president of the municipality in the exercise of the executive authority. It therefore helps in business and does not comply with possible prescribed powers. Article 116(1) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that citizens' jobs are also decided by a referendum through their representatives in the assembly. The cabinet is not their representative in the assembly, as the president of the municipality is not a representative of the assembly. What's the opposite? The council members of the municipality choose the cabinet. The cabinet does not decide anything, therefore, logically from that point of view that even the committees do not decide on the tasks of the Executive Authority. Just because the committees as representatives of citizens do not decide, means they do not decide even citizens, which injures one of the fundamental constitutional rights - that the municipality's affairs are just being decided by the citizens. By the way, it is very controversial whether the current constitution gives the mayor, or the president of the municipality, the possibility of being elected in direct elections. Logical thinking concludes that Article 116. The Constitution does not give such a possibility. For all the above, I believe that the proposings, therefore the MPs I mentioned, should withdraw the proposed amendments, and if they do not, the Serbian government should reconsider its decision to accept them. Following such a move, the government could correct the disputed bill by accepting all those amendments that the executive authority would be returned to under the control of the councils of the municipalities. Otherwise, this correction must be carried out by adopting some amendments aimed at correcting these unconstitutional and illogicalities, particularly those proposed by a group of MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17293	I thank the People's MP. National MP Petar Cvetkovic, who also issued an opinion at the board's session, also spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Adzic explained the vote by the Democratic Party of Serbia at the session of the Legislative Committee. I'd just like to add that to a few sentences. We have a proposal from the Government that is quite problematic, from the point of view of the current Constitution, for a presidential, or mayoral system in local self-government, or municipalities and cities, and particularly in municipalities. From the point of view of the Constitution that is in force, it is very difficult to establish a mayoral system, because under Article 116. The constitution of the basis of local self - administrations is carried out through the assembly, or through elected committees. The government has tabled a proposal with regard to one executive body, which is the mayor or president of the municipality, which is elected by direct or secret vote, and which has the overall executive power. We will talk about all of this later when we consider amendments and conduct a discussion in principle, but in all of this, the relationship between the two bodies elected directly and through a secret vote, which is the assembly of the municipality, i.e. the committees, and the executive body - mayor. We in the Democratic Break of Serbia have seen this, but also the amendment promoters, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic and a group of MPs, and on one side and on the other, a series of amendments, aimed at harmonising the functions of mayors, i.e. the president of the municipality with the existing constitution, as well as reducing the mayor's overauthority in the executive government in local self-government. The decision adopted by the Government, which is the cabinet of the President, is less qualitative and problematic, both from the point of view of the Constitution and the law, and for linguistic reasons and the legal system, because the existence of cabinets and cabinet members implies professional persons and in principle excludes the selection of an authority. These are experts who help the president, or the mayor to carry out professional tasks for which he can be professional or not. On the other hand, it is much more receptive and more common, i.e. the amendment. The democratic parties of Serbia on the establishment of a council, which, together with the mayor, participates in the conduct of the local self-government executive. Both have observed that, under the bill, too much power has been given to the mayor, but a far more high quality proposal, from the point of view of the existing Constitution and legal solutions, practices and established political life, is that this is the advice that will receive precise powers, namely jurisdiction in the exercise of executive authority in local self-government, and all other affairs, as well as the original ones they will have under the law, that the mayor, or the president of the municipality, is. On the other hand, in addition to the amendment to Article 45a, it is also given to Article 45b. This adopted amendment to this article is very problematic because it says the cabinet is helping the president of the municipality perform the executive function within the meaning of Article 43. There are no closer explanations which way, which directly means that it will be one advisory body, which may or may not have to be asked about something, because there are no legal obligations to be asked about anything, which directly and only conceals this absolute executive authority of the president, or mayor, and which is very problematic at this time to carry out local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17295	People's MP Gjorge Mamula, who also issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17296	The amendment is controversial because the law does not mention the office of the president of the municipality at all, so the amendment provides for the election of cabinet members for a body that is not provided for by law. That is why the amendment is controversial, as are all those later amendments, which are related to the office of the president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17297	I thank the People's MP. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, report for a word? The words came to mind: First, MP Dejan Mihajlov, then MP Vojislav Seselj, MP Borislav Pelevic and MP Zarko Obradovic. The word is from MP Dejan Mihajlov, representative of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17298	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Batic, after probably a lot of expectations (for us here and the citizens of Serbia), we received a bill on local self-government. We at the DSS think it's good, because it's one of our basic pre-election promises -- that we're going to change the state, decentralised and democratisation. The essential thing, in which I would agree with Minister Batic, is that this is an important law; and with other things, a list of things that we would agree on might be exhausted. The DSS will certainly support this law in principle, because it believes Serbia needs a new law on local self-government, which will contribute to democratisation and decentralisation of the state, especially because one of the conditions for our membership in many international organisations is the adoption of a new law on local self-government. This is exactly one of the things that insists on in democratic Europe - means that there is one good law on local self-government - to become members of many European institutions, in this case the Council of Europe. That is why we believe that the law on local self-government, which was at certain public debates, should be precisely the fruit of a broad consensus, both parties and those who will directly participate in the implementation of this law, most of all local self-government. There's something wrong here, according to us, and that's what started again with a partial solution; as we had an omnibus law, we have a law on local self-government. According to us, perhaps in that first year, parallel to all these laws, it was meant to work on the Constitution and constitutional principles to resolve this area in a complex way. The existing Constitution does not provide us with sufficient opportunities to pass a law that would fully meet Serbia's needs for modernisation and integration in all European flows, and of course in some perspective and in EU membership. This law, following the adoption of a new constitution, will be subject to change again and interventions will be necessary in this law. That is why we felt that it was much better to work, above all, on constitutional principles and then to approach the new law on local self-government, and to resolve and reorganise the state by constitutional principles, to regionalise it. By the way, there would be no need for an omnibus law that we passed yesterday. But, well, the agreement and the definition of parliamentary groups, most of the parliamentary groups within the DOS, were that we should go from the middle, not from the head, perhaps sometimes from the tail, but about that is some definition, which was in force, and as one of the MPs here said -- there is no end to the precise system of reorganisation of the state and the change of the system itself within the state. But let's get back to this law. The essence of all the laws on local self-government, including this law, should, above all, allow for the good and smooth functioning of local self-government, because local self-government is now serving to meet some of the basic needs of citizens. Local self-government is the service of citizens, meeting, above all, the communal and other needs necessary for the lives of citizens, and needs to respond to the very problems facing citizens at local level. That's why we felt that this law, which he predicted, and which supports the existing division of Serbia into municipalities, and we have municipalities that have 200,000 inhabitants, would simply not be able to enable such a functioning of the municipality. Why do I say this - a good part of this law refers to the direct election of the president of the municipality; the president of the municipality is elected by all citizens and he draws his power and draws his strength out of the direct will of the citizens in the elections, meaning he is no longer elected by the assembly of the municipality. It is a quality solution, which goes exactly in the direction of democratisation and empowerment of the executive authority in the municipalities. The second thing, we believe that the president of the municipality in this situation, when some municipalities count up to 200,000 inhabitants, will not be able to carry out the entire municipal government alone and ensure a smooth communal functioning in the cities at the moment. The DSS has proposed amendments to introduce the municipal council. Other MPs have proposed other solutions, but we have insisted precisely on our solutions. Our solution is more complex than the fact that the amendments also offer specific competences to be transferred to the municipal council, the relations between the president of the municipality, the municipal council and the assembly itself are arranged. Why is this important to do? Under the existing bill, there are two authorities in the municipality, which draw their strength from the immediate will of citizens in the elections. They're the council of the municipality and the president of the municipality. According to this bill, the congregation of the municipality absolutely has little importance. Around, they're wondering about some things as much as singing society, and that's what's the biggest problem. We must not degrade what is most bright in every system, and that is Parliament. We at the local level are introducing a presidential system, while at all other electoral levels in Serbia we have a parliamentary system. Simply, there is no control of the president of the municipality in the current text of the law proposed by the Government, in the way in which the control of his will should exist. This law, this bill, if any other items are taken into account (particularly, manager, or city architect), will hardly be able to curb corruption at local level, precisely in the exercise of municipal functions, the issue of building permits, in everything within the jurisdiction of municipal administrations. So -- there is no control; and we know that the essential thing in all parliamentary systems is a system of balance and control. There's no such thing as a system here. The executive power concentrated with the president of the municipality is not controlled, the mechanisms for its exchangeability and responsibility are small, so that we have proposed to our amendments to provide the system and the possibility of balance and control, that through the municipal council executive authority, which will be elected and which will draw its strength from directly elected committees, meaning from parliament, will be the one that will share the executive power with the president of the municipality and thus control each other. Of course, the president of the municipality, because of the very nature of his position, will retain his main authority. In this first presentation, I would especially like to point out that in terms of funding a little further away from existing laws, but not as far as we think it should be. The DSS has proposed a series of amendments, which relate to increasing funding for local self-government. First of all, we have introduced additional criteria -- I don't know if the failure of the legislator of the law has been abandoned, and for us, as Pančevci, they are very important -- that's the degree of pollution and environmental threat. This criteria for the financing of municipalities has not been mentioned so far, and we believe that inclusion of this criterion on the list of criteria, especially for those points which will be included in the environmental law as very important, is something that is necessary. The Committee on Environmental Protection of the Serbian Parliament has proposed that amendments leading towards this additional criterion be supported and that these municipalities be allowed to have more resources, so that these problems can be better and more efficient to address. The second thing, according to the Law on the Property of the Republic of Serbia, the property of the Republic of Serbia, all, and the one at local level and in municipalities, belongs to the Republic of Serbia, the municipalities are only users. We predicted that 30% of the sale of immovable property in the municipality's territory would remain exactly the municipality. This would interest and stimulate the municipality that it better maintains the property, participates in all of it, and, since the property was primarily generated by the costs of citizens living here and funding by local self-government, it is precisely that part of the property (30%) that has returned to the municipality. We predicted that 50% of the income from the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to fixed property, which are not owned by the state, remained on the territory of the capital investment municipality. And we know that in the privatisation process there will be a lot of ownership transfers from existing owners to new owners. Get a Beocian cement store, which will be sold for 54 million marks. The tax on the transfer of absolute rights is 5%. It'll all be left to local self-government at some point. That amount will exceed the entire budget foreseen for that year. This would give the municipal self-government a large amount of funding. We have proposed this amendment that these funds must be invested in capital investments, an increase in the volume of immovableity at the level of that municipality, in order not to be spent on ordinary material costs, divided into wages or something else. The funds should be invested in real estate, in increasing the immovableity fund, in order for citizens to feel some benefit from privatisation itself. (President: Time. ) Just one more sentence to mention that we have brought our amendments in line with the constitutional principles that we have proposed. We have introduced a new category of our amendments, which is the role of the administrative court. that in certain situations and in certain ways should have influence in certain areas and help and permeate the executive power, so that there is better control of that authority. We believe that some of these amendments, if adopted, can significantly correct the text of the bill. As I said, DSS MPs will vote for this law in principle and, depending on the debate on amendments and the adoption of certain amendments, decisions on voting on the law in particular and in general will be made later. But we expect that after a debate that will not be party-stricken, it will lead towards a better solution, we come up with such a bill that will allow the fastest and most qualitative meeting of citizens' needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17299	The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the SRS parliamentary group; after that, MP Borislav Pelevic, deputy president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a law is passed, Parliament needs first to convince that its adoption is really necessary, and the basic argument that parliament can be convinced is that the previous law was not good for some reason. We didn't hear what the previous law wasn't good for. This previous law has indeed had some weaknesses, but this new legal project does not eliminate any of these weaknesses. This new legal project is much worse than the previous law. It is explained that the reason for the new law is to bring legal text into line with the European Charter. For those of us who have read the European Charter and for several times it is clear that the previous laws of the Republic of Serbia have also been above the standards set by the European Charter. Take the Law on Territorial Organisation and Local Self-Government from 1991 and the Law on Local Self-Government from 1999 - it is above the standards set by the European Charter, so here the call to the European Charter is just one phrase. Secondly, it is said that a new law is expected to speed up the process of deberocracy and democratisation. The new law, if voted, will deepen red tape and choke democracy. There was a reason to change the previous law, but where the main reason for the amendment of the previous law was the proposing of this bill did not respond at all. He left it to be regulated by some new law. It is a question of the electoral principle to be applied in selecting council members of municipalities. This is what is the weakest point of the current law, but something has been tempered by the negativity that existed in the 1991 law, when the two-round majority election principle was inaugurated. So a single-circular majority principle is something better than a two-circular majority, because it doesn't force political parties into unnatural coalitions. It would be ideal to introduce a proportionate principle. We worked with it in the original project, but it did not pass in the previous relationship of forces in the National Assembly. If you wanted to fix something in that law, then that particular issue of the electoral principle would be essential. What else was the weakness of the current law - the existence of an institution of self-dependence. We were against that institution, we failed to agree to the last assembly call for it to be completely kicked out of the law. Self-indulgence in a civilized world doesn't exist as a category. It exists as a voluntary contribution, not as a new tax liability, where the municipality or the local community signs off, so if it gets a majority referendum, it also obliges those who voted against paying for self-dependence. You kept that from Cardell. Find me in the European Charter where this exists, find me in a civilized democratic state that there is this possibility. It's not there. You have not consulted the European Charter, nor have you been engaged in a comparative study of modern legal systems, which indicates that there is simply no such thing. What's good about this bill? You have to admit that. ) It is good to strengthen some of the competences of local self - government. This is now, unfortunately, a tragic set of circumstances made possible, since Kosovo and Metohija are occupied. Those reasons that had previously prevented local self-government's authority from being extended are now simply for a certain period of time. This could have led to the strengthening of jurisdiction. The Constitution in Article 113 tells exactly where these powers can be strengthened. This is point 5) of Article 113. That's what's been done here, first of all, when it comes to basic education, health care, culture, physical culture, etc. There is really a need to strengthen municipal jurisdiction. I think it is not good when municipal competences are strengthened in the field of public information, because democracy means almost full privatisation of the sphere of public information. Only then does public information make sense and only then do the media appear as the fourth branch of government, in modern political theory already widely recognised. Where the media is in the hands of the state, whether it is a federal state, a federal unit, a region, autonomy or local self-government, there freedom of the media and public information cannot have the importance of the fourth branch of government advocated by modern political theorists of democratic orientation. Where the state manages the information system and where the main media is in the hands of the state, there is no freedom of the media in the true sense of words. Which is why this legislative project tramples the basic democratic principles, where democracy is the most sensitive -- in the sphere of power-sharing. At the state level, from Monteskje to today, democratic systems are developing the principle of strict division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. This system can be implemented at country level. Three branches of government are strictly demarcated, but each other is in control. The legislative authority is something more equal than executive and judicial. And the judicial authority has the right to control the legislative authority, contesting its general legal acts, of course, to control the executive and administrative authority, but the legislative authority controls both judicial and executive, much more executive-administrative than judicial. This principle cannot be applied locally. Unlike the federal unit or autonomy, i.e. regions that have nothing to do with democracy, they even pose an obstacle to the realisation of democracy to the extreme borders, local self-government has contitiated the son of a non-democracy society. The local self-government in the Serbian state has a great and deep tradition. The first conflicts of people, citizens, political parties against authorities and regimes, the king, the monarchy were, above all, on the jurisdiction of local self-government. Serbia has such a pronounced tradition, and in this tradition developed local self-government has never made what the Serbian government has now submitted to us as a legal project. At the level of local self-government, it is not possible to fully express the principle of power-sharing. Why? Because the judiciary, as a special branch of government, must be unique at the level of the state. The state is where the judiciary is in a unique, indivisible system. The judicial authority cannot be tied to a local self-government unit. Of course, it is primarily seen as a function of the choice of judges. The choice of judges is done by the state through the Supreme and Legislative Authority, except in some cases, where lower judicial authorities, judicial authorities can do so. The election at the highest judicial office, the Constitutional Court judge, the Supreme Court judge, etc., performs the most parliamentary body of the country. That's not possible at the municipal level. This is why it is established at the municipal level in democratic countries, so-called. Conventional system. Translated in our language, it could be called a congregation system, that the term congregation system itself did not get some negative connotation in communist time, that it was not disqualified in an ideological way. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says in Article 116, and this is what our holy letter says, to us lawyers, to the Holy Scriptures. For political parties, for parliament, etc. This is the only holy letter until a new one is brought in by the Constitution. Article 116 states that citizens at the municipal level decide in two ways -- through a referendum and through the assembly. The referendum is a form of direct decision. He has some values, but in practice shows a large number of weaknesses and democratic political theory has long since been clear that direct decision-making in the right sense is more a political illusion, that in practice it is not possible to fully implement it, except in those small entities where it is simply possible for everyone to participate in the decision-making process. It remains, therefore, a congregation of the municipality. (President: Time. I'll continue for the next ten minutes. Apart from the municipality assembly, there is no body through which citizens will decide at the level of local self-government. It is impossible, therefore, to remain president of the municipality, as foreseen by this legal project ahead of us. Look, article 1st, Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why is the function of the president of the municipality, as it is well-conceived here, so-called. The mayoral office is neither democratically defined nor democratically exposed to the whole of the constitutional order? Because it inaugurates a kind of presidential system. According to modern democratic political theory, the presidential system is not good at state level either. Democracy is phellerical in countries where there is a presidential system. In our country, in principle, there is a parliamentary system at both federal and republican level. There are some elements of the presidential system; one that is important -- that the president is elected in direct, direct elections rather than elected by parliament, as the government chooses -- is the only feleric in our constitutional system. But here, this legal-political feller gets incomprehensible dimensions. Therefore, if he wants good to the state, the current government should give it up. The president of the municipality has no one to take shifts here. There's no municipal government here either. In the current system of local self-government, the municipality elected its executive body, which served as its own municipal government, the executive board. There is no municipal government here. Here's the president of the municipality himself, the government. He decides everything. Justice Minister Vladan Batic just said he is in principle the head of the municipality. You know, the Anglo-Saxon political theory is about the leadership, and in German political theory, it's about the Führer-principle. You can do anything that you can't laugh for free. Advise someone who understands, so make sure of it. This is a fire-principle. This is where one of the acclaims is chosen, to decide everything. If someone wants to change it, the municipal assembly must by absolute majority vote make a decision, and then go to the citizens' statement, to the vote. Who organizes this citizens' statement? The one who has all the executive power, the president of the municipality. Where, besides such a powerful president of the municipality, can a regular statement of citizens be made? Watch out, when the president of the municipality is elected, then various political parties participate, and the parties control each other. When an initiative is put forward to replace the president of the municipality, then there are no parties in it; only the state part of the electoral commission participates in the decision, because by what criteria the parties will participate. There's a criterion here: a party that has a candidate, has its own controller. When the president of the municipality is replaced, no party has any candidates, no controllers. It is all in the hands of the state authorities, i.e. the authorities of local self-government, who are thus under the control of the president of the municipality. You're practically creating an immeasurable president of the municipality here. That is why the leader-principle, or leadership, is not a good principle, is not democratic. There's nothing more democratic than when a congregation can replace executive power. It's a basic kind of control of the executive-government authority. Now, look, this principle that exists at a local level must be summed up both by the province, and by the regional, and by the federal unit level and by the federal level. Does this mean that neither we in Serbia will have a government, but only the president will be elected, and that president, like in America, will be appointed by advisers, or ministers, or state secretaries, etc. There's no government at all. Even in America, the impeachment is being held in Congress. The Senate judges the President of the United States, and when convicted - the president is finished, he is relieved of office. There's no way in America for citizens to plead. You're introducing a tighter presidential system here than it is in America. You know in advance there's no way for citizens to take turns. But now try to organize something like this pro-forma somewhere, experimenting to get citizens to vote for the president's shift. You won't get 5% out because they don't care. The main pain of the local self-government system in the civilized world is the low interest of citizens in the affairs of local self-government. Democratic states are trying to animate citizens to participate in local self-government as much as possible. The easiest way for citizens to be animated is by the assembly system, the convention system, where the parliamentary function means something. This is where the board office literally means nothing, absolutely nothing. Then why is there a congregation of municipalities in the first place? What are the general acts that will be brought by the assembly of the municipality other than the president of the municipality? In fact, there is no possibility; formally there is a possibility, there is essentially no such possibility. We have heard here statements from some ministers, some high-ranking officials, some party leaders, and we have also heard a statement by the Constitutional Court of Serbia that the only competent one is to submit a new Serbian government project. He contests the right for parliamentary groups and parties to appear as initiators for the submission of a constitutional project, or a project for the change of the Constitution; he says - The government, because it has offended the understanding of many people, and even those who would have to be legal experts, that the government is the main and unimpaired power. Under the dictatorship, this particularly comes to terms; there, of course, where there is no Constitutional Court, there is already a dictatorship, and it is more or less covered up, but it is in action. You're seducing a dictatorship at the level of local self-government. Of course, there is a relatively limited mandate for dictators. In those four years, however, unlimited authorities can literally provide themselves with choices whenever he wants because everything is in his hands. There's no one to control him. He doesn't account for his work, he doesn't file a report. Of course, we have in the current system a function of the president of the municipality which is not formally strong, but can essentially be. Not because of jurisdiction, but because of the political authority of the individual, or the holder of that function. It is only a force of authority, and you can simply measure this power of authority - in the same function, with the same real authority, one was Milosevic, and the other was Milutinovic. There is a difference in authority, but this function in itself does not have great jurisdiction except in conditions of war or emergency. Here you are, to the inexplicable limits, strengthening the authority of an incoherent function. Where key functions are incoherent and very powerful, there is no democracy, there is a decree to decide and there is a president of the municipality who can literally do whatever he wants. Second, such a powerful president of the municipality, you're still forming the police. He'll be Chief Chief of Police, and what else are you... (Ma, it's the police, the local police who will carry the weapons)... What did you predict? First, the security of the facilities -- that's this security service, the security that every municipality has or rents from some agencies -- now the local police are going to do these jobs. Let's get this over with, it wouldn't be a problem. However, the police are helping the work of municipal inspections and doing other tasks, and you did not say which. Communal order, regulates local traffic -- all that would be done by the police. Who's the commander of that police force? The president of the municipality. The police have nothing to do with the police of the Republic of Serbia, it is completely autonomous. You're creating a Pretorian guard for the president of the municipality. He's all-powerful in that regard. He's issuing a warrant to get someone kicked out of the house, to tear down his house, etc., and immediately his police are doing it. So far, we've had practice: he's issuing a warrant, so he's asking for police assistance, so the police first control whether the warrant is in accordance with the law, so if it's in accordance with the law, he's giving assistance. It must be so, the police must not assist if it is found that it is not in accordance with the law; it must. He who accepts to carry out an order that is not in accordance with the law shall answer; and in the army an officer, if he orders a soldier to do something that is a crime, he shall answer. He can't have the president of the county ordering the police to commit a crime on his orders. But you don't understand. That's why, of course, I don't mean to convince you, you've shown... (President: Mr. Seselj, I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) Many imaginations; your legal technique is unseen in a civilized world. You will probably also vote in favour of this law as you have voted on a whole series of other anti-constitutional laws, you will also prevent the constitutional court of Serbia from being established in the future. Remember, the tyrannical authorities are growing shorter and shorter.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17301	The speech is attended by MP Borislav Pelevic, representative of the SSJ parliamentary group, and then by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17302	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, is an acceptable thesis for the Soviet Union to see the degree of democracy of a society as well as the degree of development of local self-government, i.e. decentralisation. The SSJ programme states that one of the basic principles of our party is the issue of decentralisation, and that is exclusively at the local level. It's not a question, and on the other hand, the idea of passing a law like this is a good idea. Some of the solutions contained in this law are totally unacceptable to the Assembly Group of the Soviets, and that is why we will vote against this law in principle, and given the government's relationship, or the promoter, according to our amendments, we will decide that we will vote eventually in general, given that we have submitted more than 20 amendments, which are of great importance and which change the essence of this law significantly, but which absolutely do not violate the principle of decentralisation, i.e. the development of local self-government. I will allow myself to look at a few key things that are unacceptable to the Soviet Union and why we will vote in principle against this bill. First, it refers to article 22, which speaks of local police, where local police are said to conduct certain matters of interest for the local community, and in particular: communal order, regulates local traffic, conducts fire protection, provides property and facilities used by municipalities, assists the work of municipal inspections and performs other tasks in accordance with the law. The organisation, mutual relations between the authorities and the municipalities and local police as well as other issues of importance for local police work are regulated by law. You can't see what the local police look like, what uniforms they're wearing. Whether the uniforms, markings and acts of the police are in line with Serbia's mup uniforms and markings. Is the president of the municipality the supreme commander of local, or municipal police; is the police carrying weapons, is this a short or long weapon? What is the local police's relationship with Serbia's MUP with the regular police? It says here that it's all regulated by law, but we didn't see the bill. Imagine the local police in Novi Pazar, where the alpha and omega Suleyman Ugljanin is. The question is what kind of uniforms the police will have and will they have weapons, is that the beginning of a new police force that can come into conflict tomorrow with Serbia's regular MUP? You know well that Sulejman Ugljanin in 1991 and 1992 sent young people from the Raska region to Turkey for military training to fight Serbs in Republika Srpska and therefore was convicted by a judicial decision and an arrest warrant was raised against him. Someone from the previous government brought him back and welcomed him with a white Mercedes at Surcin Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17303	Mr. Pelevic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17304	I'm talking about the subject, I'm talking about Article 22, the local police. So, do we trust such community presidents and what will the local police serve? This is a very important issue that we must not leave unregulated and undefined to Article 22, as neither the duties nor uniforms, nor the arms, nor the co-operation with the right, the Serbian National Police Police. So that's a very important question and, if this stays in this article of the bill, we will be absolutely against this law. Furthermore, it is a member of 42 who speaks of the authority of the president of the municipality. It seems to me that this member, as well as members relating to the authority of the president of the municipality, is in full legal cohesion and every other conflict with the entire bill, because this is, in fact, not about decentralisation of government at local level, but about centralization of government in the hands of one single man, the president of the municipality. This is what leads to the collapsing of this member with a complete bill of local self-government. So, the president has in his hands almost unlimited power and power and no one to control it, which, as my previous colleagues have stated, is contrary to Article 116. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that citizens' affairs are controlled through referendums and through its representatives by the council, who are regularly elected in the municipality's assembly. I will allow myself to read several responsibilities provided for by this bill: it directly executes and takes care to implement decisions and other acts of the Assembly of the Municipality; it directs and coordinates the work of the municipal administration; it decides in the administrative procedure in the second degree on the rights and responsibilities of citizens. Please, he's taking over the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, which we find really unacceptable. Further - supervises the work of the municipal administration, repeals or abolishs acts of municipal administration which are not in accordance with the law; appoints and dismisss the head of municipal administration, or the head of the administration of certain areas; the commander is the officer for the implementation of the budget and adopts individual acts for which he is authorised by law, statute or decision of the assembly. Article 45 says the motion to recall the president of the municipality can be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia if it is estimated that entrusted transactions are not carried out in accordance with the law. What happens if citizens in direct and secret elections choose someone from the opposition in a particular municipality? This means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can write an act the next day that will confirm that the tasks entrusted to it are not doing well and can be replaced immediately. Is that acceptable, is that democratic? I don't think so, and that's how it's solved by Article 45. So, all those competencies that I quoted and which, according to the proposal, In 42nd and 43rd, the president of the municipality means practically not decentralisation, not the development of local self-government, but the centralisation of power and power in the hands of a single man, which is the president of the municipality. Furthermore, Article 56 provides for the possibility that the use of municipal manager services can be foreseen for the performance of the municipality’s affairs. It is appointed by the president and, together with the president of the municipality (or mayor, if this is a city), has unlimited power in terms of investment, with regard to the conclusion of all jobs, all business, partnership and other arrangements. This means that we have received the director of the municipality, or the director of the city, who, together with the president of the municipality, has unlimited power, control over the management of investments, businesses, partnership relations and all others. This absolutely raises the question of whether in all 160 municipalities and some municipalities will be so correct president and director, i.e. manager of the municipality, and not to make a mutual deal, a mutual business, where it will damage the municipality and abuse its authority when it comes to investment operations, partner relations with other companies, about everything else in business in the municipality. So, the area for corruption is opening up, the area for bribes is opening up, and we think that the function of the municipality manager, i.e. the director of the municipality, is just too high, because we have the president of the municipal assembly under this bill, the president of the municipality, the head of the administration, and now we have the director. We think it's unacceptable and we're pushing for this member of the law to be erased. As for financing the municipality's work, it is also problematic if someone from the opposition's secret elections comes from power to power in certain Serbian cities. The Serbian government has the opportunity to simply prevent the inflow, the flow of money from the city's budget, and that the president of the municipality, if he is from the opposition, is unable to perform his duties well. Furthermore, as regards Article 83, which speaks of local municipal taxes - in addition to being acceptable to almost all of these points, there are also some points that seem to me to be quite inconclusive to such a law, which is, for example, point 15 - a local municipal tax is introduced to keep domestic and exotic animals. You'll let this really not be too serious that if someone has a cat in the house or in the apartment, they should pay taxes on it. It's really inappropriate and I think it's pretty unserious for this kind of serious project that we're talking about. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these are all the reasons, along with the others that I will present in the second part of my presentation, which is why the Serbian Unity Party cannot accept this bill in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17305	The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, followed by MP Biaci Anton, SVM parliamentary group president and MP Branislav Pomorski.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17306	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will not support the proposal for a law on local self-government proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a bad law, which, by its content and solutions, is a step back from the existing system of local self-government, which establishes political and other instability at the local level and inequality of citizens in achieving the Constitution of guaranteed rights in education, health and other areas. The proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia has made almost all the good solutions from the existing law on local self-government corrupt, dilute, inapplicable. Some new solutions have been introduced and institutes that are more declaratively formalally democratic than they are essential; solutions that complicate and do not simplify the functioning of local self-government; solutions that almost completely lose the ability to be a subject of decision, to shape the content and quality of life at local level. The proposal for a new law on local self-government is essentially deeply anti-democracy. The participation of citizens in local self-government, i.e. local public affairs management, has been reduced to a level of mere form. The Assembly of the Municipality, and therefore the elected committees are marginalised in relation to the executive authority, i.e. The president of the municipality. The president of the municipality establishes a presidential system at local level, with great powers and no obligations towards citizens. Forms of direct participation of citizens in the achievement of local self-government, such as the citizens' initiative, the citizens' assembly and the referendum, are drastically diminished (and therefore the influence of citizens) and thus reduced to the level of opportunity, and there is no obligation of local self-government to respect the demands and interests of citizens. A high census, 10% of voters, has been prescribed to launch the citizens' initiative, but the current obligation to bring the issue to the citizens' referendum after a negative response. That this right has a declarative character best says exactly the level of the 10% voter's censorship to launch the initiative -- 10% of Belgrade voters means 130,000 signatures; 10% of the New Sad voters mean 17,000 signatures, and that's only to launch the citizens' initiative. So many signatures for one initiative! And the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act of the state, is far easier in terms of proposing laws or calling a republican referendum. To remind me, the constitution prescribes at least 15,000 voters to propose laws, other regulations and general acts and 100,000 voters, so that the National Assembly should decide on calling a referendum at the level of Serbia as a whole. The Council of Citizens, i.e. Its conclusions do not have any binding character for the authorities and services of local self-government, which can determine their position, make a decision and inform the citizens. With regard to the referendum of the congregation, there is no obligation on any matter to call a referendum, unlike the current solution, but it was left at the will of the congregation majority. When it comes to the authorities of the municipality, the proposed law next to the assembly as a representative body also provides for the president of the municipality as an executive body. For us, this solution is totally unacceptable, because, on the one hand, the Assembly of the municipalities and elected committees are completely marginalized, and on the other hand, huge powers are given to the president of the municipality, and no responsibility is given to the fact that the presidential system is being established at the local level. This solution establishes a sub-premation of the executive and administrative authority, in the image of the president of the municipality, in relation to the municipal local government, i.e. The councils of the municipality. For example, the president of the municipality has been given the right to represent and represent the municipality, proposes decisions and regulations of the assembly, and, for example, calls for that same decision to be implemented. The commanding officer is focused in his hands and financial power. It resolves the administrative procedure in the second degree on the rights and duties of citizens, which means it takes over some powers that have administrative and Supreme Court. He sets up and relieves the head of the administration, which means he manages the administrative apparatus directly and indefinitely. He sets up and resolves the main architect of the municipality, concludes a contract with the municipal manager and others, all of which speaks of the almost unlimited power of the executive body compared to the representative. This position of the president of the municipality has been further determined by the way he was called off, which, due to a complicated procedure and a large number of citizens who are due to declare the change, is almost impossible. There's a 10% voter body censorship one of the conditions, but only to launch the recall initiative. The shift requires, in fact, more than 50% of the voters' votes, and that is certainly far more than the candidate can get at the election, because they will then be elected among more candidates, so the votes will be divided. With such solutions at the municipal level - the assembly of the municipality and the president of the municipality - political instability is also established, as it is realistic to assume that in the local assembly the majority of the council will have one party, or political option, and that the president of the municipality will be elected as representative of another political party or, as possible and logically, from the order of citizens as a proposing. This cohabitation at local level certainly cannot go on without mutual conflicts and upgrades, of course, to the harm of citizens. In the context of the original affairs of the municipality, the new law provides for the obligation of the municipality to establish, monitor and provide for the functioning of institutions and organisations in the field of primary education, culture, primary health care, physical culture, sport, children's and social protection and tourism, which extends the scope of rights in relation to the existing law, but thus also directly and indirectly, usurp the obligations and rights of the Republic, established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to regulate and provide a system in the fields of education, health and other. Members shall be submitted contrary to existing legal solutions (for example, Article 9. The law on elementary school), which denies the Constitution, declared rights on the equality of citizens in the fields of education, health care, social protection and others. For us, the Socialists, not more disputed powers of local self-government, but the government of the Republic of Serbia for new and existing jobs, which it has given to municipalities, did not provide the funds needed to implement them. Citizens will not be equal in the exercise of rights (for example in education, in health care), at the level of local self-government, as the exercise of these rights will depend on the economic opportunities of municipalities. When we compare municipalities with approximately the same number of inhabitants but different economic forces, we will see that the exercise of these rights will be different. According to data published by the Republic Institute for Information and Statistics, the average earnings for November in the municipality of Krupanj were 3,909 dinars, and in Kanjiža 17.940 dinars. So 4.5 times bigger. Or, in the White Palanca, the average profit was 4.206 dinars, and in Beocin, 16,654 dinars, so four times higher. Will all the municipalities really be able to start their own schools, if we see what's needed to get the school started? This is prescribed by Article 11. The laws on schools and here include: school space, so classrooms, equipment and teaching facilities, of course, the required number of teachers and professional associates, and in addition, there is a need for room for physical education, library for a variety of electoral items, health care clinics and others. The answer is clear. The answer is known - it won't be possible. Rich municipalities will create high, European standards for primary education and education, and poor municipalities will not be able to do so in an elementary form either. Or, will the other municipalities really be able to provide for their citizens everything that belongs to primary health care, and these are, for example, vaccinations, systematic examinations, early diagnosis and laboratory and diagnostic procedures outside the hospital. The answer is also negative in this case - it won't be possible. So for Serbian citizens, the future will be important where they are born, where they grow and where they work, in rich or poor municipalities, because it will define whether they will exercise their rights in education and health. The government has announced that, in order to achieve these jobs, there will be an increase in the participation of municipalities and cities in the personal income tax on their territory. I think it's one of the DOS promises that won't come true. From what personal incomes will the U.S. Army receive new funds, when 2,500 people were fired a month ago? Or, from which incomes will other municipalities of Serbia achieve this, when 400,000 to 700,000 unemployed people are announced from the Republic Labour Market Institute in the next two years, besides 800,000 already unemployed? Of course there won't be any money, so the municipalities won't be able to do the jobs. This giving new powers to municipalities, without the necessary financial resources, also means transferring responsibility from the government of the Republic of Serbia to municipalities. After this, if the law is passed, the government will normally tell the citizens - it is not ours, please, you are complaining to local self-government. And to the citizens as it is. Most Serbian citizens will certainly be very, very bad. The content of the bill makes it clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not have a vision when it comes to systematic self-government. Certain institutes have been introduced only in certain countries with developed local self-government. Not in most countries, not in all countries. Some of these institutes are of a university character, such as - the main architect of the municipality, the municipal manager, the civil defender, the council for the development and protection of local self-government, and others, which shows in fact that in the proposed case there was security regarding the definition of concrete solutions or there was no agreement between all those entities, from the country and abroad, which affected the content of this law. In fact, rather than come up with solutions to elected committees and citizens in the centre of decision-making, when it comes to issues of demarcation for the lives of citizens at local level, the government has resorted to solutions from other countries, which are marginalised by citizens and committees on the basis of bodies chosen only by the president of the municipality or by the assembly majority. The government of the Republic of Serbia has deviated from what makes the tradition, value and spirit of our people and the state in local self-government, and has accepted solutions from abroad that are not unique to us and whose applicability in practice is very, very disputable. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing, incorrectly presented reasons for adopting a new law to local self-government. In light of the bill's proposal, it is said that it is needed, in order to bring the local self-government system in the Republic of Serbia into line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, adopted by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg in 1985. That claim is absolutely incorrect. The existing Law on Local Self-Government, adopted at the end of 1999, which launched the construction of a local self-government system in Serbia, contains all those solutions that the European Charter prescribes as mandatory for the functioning of local self-government in signatories countries. The new law, unlike the existing one, contains solutions contrary to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The Charter, namely, foresees the existence of local authorities in the form of councils or congregations, and their right to do certain parts of public affairs, of course, in the interest of the local population. In this bill, discussed by the Assembly, we have a congregation of municipalities, but completely marginalized by the president of the municipality. We have congregations of municipalities without authority and influence. The Charter of Local Self-Government also stipulates that local authorities can have the executive bodies responsible for them, while the new law provides for the president of the municipality as an executive body, but without any responsibility to the citizens who choose him, or to the assembly of the municipality, i.e. elected committees. In addition, the new law derogates the citizens' initiative, referendums and choirs of citizens as forms of direct participation in the decision-making process, which is also contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. As regards the relationship between the authorities of the Republic and the body of the unit of the local self-government, the proposed law provides for the disbanding of the municipality in two cases - if it does not take place for more than three months or if it does not adopt a statute or budget within the time limit laid down by law. But the solution so far has been left out - that the Assembly of the Municipality can be disbanded when it or another body of local self-government is doing their jobs in a way that threatens the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, or is more difficult to damage the general interest. This right of the Republic's authorities, in our opinion, should continue to exist, because citizens' rights not only threaten them further but can also conclude what will happen to them in the future, under the conditions of the unlimited authority of the president of the municipality. The bill does not contain this law, because in the past year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been right, unfortunately, compromised and abused by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has introduced a forced administration into 23 municipalities. The lack of the proposed law is also seen in the fact that no mention is made of Kosovo and Metohija in any place. If such an approach in the text of the law can also be understood because of uniform solutions, it is incomprehensible, and for us socialists unacceptable, that in the transitional and final provisions of this bill there are no members relating to local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. The existing law contains a member who clearly points out that the election and education of units of local self-government bodies in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija will be carried out according to the provisions of the law, following the end of the UN temporary administration mission, thus showing the state's attitude towards Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The bill, discussed today by the Assembly, does not provide for local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, which also implies the fate of the autonomous province. It is indicative that the bill does not contain provisions on how to elect council members of the municipality, nor the obligation to hold new local elections, which would be logical, since a new law on local self-government is passed, etc. system law, with many new solutions. The lack of provisions on how to elect councilors in the municipal assembly is likely to be caused by disagreement within the DOS over the way of the electoral system, while the failure to mention new elections suggests fear of dealing with the electoral mood of citizens and the receipt of accounts for the so far disastrous results of the DOS policy. The proposed law also contains a number of other weaknesses, indeterminateness, certains of which the content is not determined (e.g. with regard to local self-government according to the authorities of territorial autonomy; specifics that can be widely interpreted on an arbitrary basis; non-applicable members; members of local self-government bodies, applied from future local elections; as well as institutes that are of a university character - legal architect, manager, civil defender, council for the development and protection of local self-government - and the content of jobs, all of these institutes is undefined. Then, the law also contains a number of views that are declarative - the rights of foreign citizens in achieving local self-government and others, which, in addition to a number of bad solutions, confirms that the proposal for a law on local self-government, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is, in fact, a buildup of individual solutions from other countries, which collapses the local self-government system in Serbia. The draft law on local self-government is bad, there is nothing in it from local self-government and the Socialists will be against its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17307	The word is made by MP Biachi Anton, SVM parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17308	The Honorable Madam Chairman, esteemed MPs, respected ministers, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, as the only legal, legitimate and authentic representative of the Vojvodina Hungarians, citizens of Serbia, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, supports the principle of a bill on local self-government. At the same time, we would also like to point out that, as life itself is more cunning than any theory, than any regulation, so this bill does not carry a stone of wisdom for local self-government and does not represent a magic wand to solve all the problems of managing the local community. He's just not perfect. But, according to our assessment, this bill is a solid framework and a good basis for the process of real and concrete global democratisation, as well as a solid basis for decentralisation of society and for establishing legal order in local communities. However, in our view, this text must be improved by the experience that life and co-existence from local communities with a mixed population carries and offers. To this end, representatives of the Union of Duchy Hungarians have given several amendments to certain members of the bill. Of course, in that spirit, we will also support other amendments, which, according to our assessment, improve the text of the proposal, regardless of who is the promoter of these amendments. In that sense, we support the bill in principle and we will vote for its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17309	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker has injured Article 101(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must be respected. I'm surprised you didn't react, Mrs. Komic, and it was quite clear that the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is very clear, were injured. Namely, the predecessor said that the parliamentary group he represents is the only legitimate, the only authentic, as he has all said, representative of the Hungarians living in the Republic of Serbia. He said he was alive, and you all kept it quiet, although we guaranteed the equality of citizens, and although there are no only representatives of any citizen, let alone the people or people who live in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, based on article 76. The constitution, the MP, represents the citizens of the electoral unit in which he was elected, and we are all elected to an electoral unit called the Republic of Serbia. Nor do I want to deny anyone the right to represent all citizens of Serbia, nor do I want anyone to deny it to me, a team before there is a large number in the SRS, perhaps not as much as we would like, Hungary, which we represent here. Don't lock yourself up in the ghetto, don't lock yourself up in a reservation, don't just represent members of the Hungarian people, because first of all, it can't survive in any country, and secondly, you're denying me constitutional rights to fight for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17311	A member of 101 was advertised on the insult of the National Assembly's dignity; I did not, as the chairman, warn or warn the MP that there is a adopted and unwritten rule that the subjective views of MPs, during which time the speakers are represented as an objective reality. That's the personal position of the MP he presented. If you will see it as an insult, it is your right to intervene in the Rules of Procedure. It is not the first time that MPs take the right to, taking pictures of what they think is an objective attitude, express their own views. We're forced to listen to each other. I stand by the stand to present the previous speaker, MP Biachi Anton, no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? He doesn't want to. ) National MP Biachi Anton answered the line. The basis for the replica is wrong interpretation and attitude from the discussion of MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17312	I don't think the MP, Mr. Nikolic, understood me. I said the Alliance of Duke Hungarians, a parliamentary group, an authentic representative of the duchy Hungarians, citizens of Serbia, is here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17313	The People's Messenger Branislav Pomoriski has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17314	Fellow MPs, respected observers, today we have a law on the agenda that is within the set of laws that should decentralise the government in our country and implement what we have outlined as our programme before the change and that we have begun to realise after the changes that have occurred in our country. Indeed, when you look at it, what is more logical than the problem being solved where it came from and being solved by those concerned. If you look at the Law of Local Self-Government we had, it was almost impossible not to make a better law than that. Because the Law on Local Self-Government, which is valid until the adoption of this law, was one of the laws with the worst possible solutions and the most difficult consequences we had in the previous period. The very motive, according to the promoter, for the adoption of this law is to comply with the European Charter of Local Self-Government; therefore, adapting our legal regulatory standards to European and world standards that should bring us closer to Europe in due course, whose part we are. First, the question arises what does this bill offer in this sense, so what are the improvements to the law that we have? I'd like to make a few very important improvements. First of all, the abandonment of the congregation system that we had and which generated a number of problems in the realization of certain decisions, without ever knowing who was actually responsible for the individual action, or, above all, for the realization of executive functions in the domain of local self-government. So you had one situation where in the executive government itself, as well as at certain levels of governance, parallelism occurred, where there were no clearly delimited functions. This new law is quite good, I would say European way of resolving. We've got institutes like the Ombudsman, we've got local law enforcement. There have been some objections to such a solution. It is enough to visit developed European and world cities and you will see everywhere that local self-government (it is one process that has long been completed in a more developed part of Europe and the world) has its own police department that sometimes differs from other levels of police force (you have usually a republican and federal government), which has a strictly assigned domain of work, a task which is not supposed to be repeated, that it is within the framework of a single command, that it is within the total police force that one country has. Also, this law provides us with good solutions in terms of demarcation of original and transferred competences, which we did not have in the solutions of the previous law. Then, it leaves the possibility of starting schools, primary healthcare facilities, etc. However, what did this law not foresee? All these solutions and the proposed essence of the Law on Local Self-Government do not have an economic and property basis. If the law doesn't have an economic and property base, then all the positive solutions are practically falling into the water, because you won't have any way to carry out such a local self-government. In fact, we still have one financial and material centralization going on, no less than we had back ten years. The process, which cannot be freed by the state of Serbia, really prevents some good solutions from being implemented tomorrow. I'm going to give you, instead of describing a rule of law solution, a few examples of what I'm saying most clearly shows what's the essence of what I'm saying. In 1995, the Republic Assembly passed a law called the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. This law practically transferred all property, therefore, all economic and property grounds in this country, both de jure and de facto to the Republic of Serbia. You have a situation that after the law was passed in 1995, only in Novi Sad was sold 2,918 square meters in the extra zone of Dragon Jovina and Danube Street, that no one in the city knew who it was sold to, under what conditions, and especially no one in the city had any interest in that sale, because, normally, all the money was in the Republic budget. We also had a situation that the town of Novi Sad built a thermal power plant, a heat plant, for a unique new Sad heating system, which was also one of the best in our country. During that period, the thermal power plant, the heat plant, was transferred to the EPS in time, when a decision was made to produce electricity, that heat that was supposed to keep the citizens of Novi Sad heating the Danube, and the citizens of Novi Sad were paying for gas, or gas to heat those ancient winters. As we warmed up, we know what our winters and those summers were like, we also know. Like a series of other examples. After all, if such arguments are not respected, then it is enough to look at how the issue of local self-government property in cities we seek or at least strive to be like them, and these are developed European cities. You will see that these European cities have property that they have and they have police, their primary schools, primary health care, and a series of other things that we haven't had in this past period, and worse still, this law doesn't predict that we get it. We must say openly, when there was a public debate in Novi Sad, he was an assistant minister, Mr Protic. When this argument was met publicly, on television, Mr Protic himself admitted that he was not personally against, and I even remember the expression used, and municipal property, that it is not logical that local self-government does not have a material basis based on which it will exercise its rights. This is the view of the Government that it does not comply with the Republic Constitution of 1990, Article 56 and 59, as well as the Federal Constitution, Article 73. Of course, who is not lazy can look at those provisions of the Constitution and see that it is absolutely not against the constitution if certain assets, i.e. property and material basis, are transferred to local self - administration. This does not conflict with those constitutional provisions, as other types of property are also predicted there. So this is one part of the argument that I think really needs to be respected, that is, this Parliament would have to respect it. All of you fellow MPs are from certain local backgrounds and all of you have experience with the problems that arise, which you cannot solve unless you have the authority to solve them. Also, there are countless examples where we can show that even without jurisdiction we have done better than what at that time had jurisdiction. There is simply no, and at least economically, reason that local self-government doesn't get its economic, property base, so that it can do what it does under this law, if it's brought in, and it has to do. Therefore, in the end, I would like to say that the Social Democratic League Group of the League of the Duchys and the League of the Woodland League will support this law in principle. We expect his important improvements, and above all, in terms of what I've been saying. This law can be fixed. He will certainly be, and he is better than the one we had. At this point, we need a better law on local self-government, which we could reach through a session, or work on this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17315	National MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17316	Mrs. Komic, I don't think we have the conditions to work and that the injured member is Article 82(2) and Article 95(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think we have enough MPs to keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17317	You know it best, since the SPS MPs are missing. I ask the MPs to establish the quorum at the request of MP Zarko Obradovic. I realize we don't have a quorum and I'm setting a break, so we'll continue at 15.00 hours. I ask the MPs to be in the O.R. at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17318	Dear People's MPs, please let us determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and we can continue our work. We continue the debate in principle on the proposal for a law on local self-government. The word comes from MP Zeljo Huric, deputy president of the parliamentary group Reformist Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party. I ask the MPs who did not participate in the quorum to take their seats as soon as possible so that we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17319	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, honored guests, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us one draft of a law that, in my opinion, should correct all of the things in this area that proved to be inapplicable and inadequate in the previous period. This is, therefore, one law that is passed for the reason that the process of deberocracy, democratisation, and certainly, to achieve an enviable level of decentralisation; the fact is that its current text, or content, needs to be aligned with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. There is no conclusion here that the current law, and many others, is at the level of the standards of European law. How is it possible that all the effects of such laws have brought us far below the level of these events in Europe. Of course, this is one of the reasons why, by respecting the specifics, primarily the political environment, the economic development of our area, should bring a new law that would be functional and improve what I was saying earlier. Shorter... I don't understand. Why isn't this a topic? A shorter analysis, not in terms of co-operation with the previous law but of what is contained here, will point to one good side of this law, will point to its acceptability than anyone who wishes to benefit this society and this republic. When it comes to the establishment of a local self-government unit, what is defined here is that segment improving. True, it is said there that this is happening on the basis of the citizens' previously obtained opinion, which may not be entirely true, but certainly the law will determine it closer. The next thing I want to talk about in particular - it's local police, something new about the state of Serbia, and what has long existed in all the countries of Europe and the world. I don't want to comment on any statements that have been heard here from individuals, because I think there's really no need to say anything about it, because I don't realize that it's serious, it's going to be a reflection of someone's paranoia, but it's about some real consequences that might happen. This local police, in addition to what is said and said in this member who defines the local police themselves, will, of course, play another very important role -- I will now speak from the aspect of minority community members -- the imbalance in the national mixed environments, when it comes to the composition of the current police. Maybe it won't answer to someone, but I hope that the vast majority of people in this country, in Serbia, will come in handy. For example, in the current Novi Pazar police system, Bosniaks are participating up to 27% (as said by the chief of the SUP there), and you know well that about 80% of Bosniaks live there. The next thing I want to comment very seriously, with a certain dose of my dilemma, is on the authorities of local self-government, primarily the assembly of the municipality and the president, so one representative body and one executive body, a future unit of local self-government. I have to agree with some of the observations that have been made here when it comes to the president of the municipality, especially in that section relating to his impeachment. Indeed, everything that is said in this part of the law does not only differ slightly from a healthy logic, but it seems to me that a considerable amount of confusion is being introduced, but I must admit that I do not have my own position, or a solution in which we are in this environment might be able to fix it. I hope with better insight into the attached amendments, I find some of them who, if not entirely that dilemma of mine, will remove it, but at least eliminate it a few times. When it comes to newly foreseen institutions, and above all I mean the municipal architect, manager, ombudsman, advice on international relations, advice on the protection and development of local self-government units, on my part I can only express words of praise. Namely, these are all new institutions, which will greatly help to make the function that the local self-government units now have in their jurisdiction as best as possible. When it comes to advice on international relations, it really is at this point and how necessary, but I keep in mind that it will play the most important role, which is to do everything to stop the need for its existence. You have seen yourself in the attached text that actually those units of local self-government in which a national minority participates with more than 5% in the population structure or all of a total of more than 10% have the right to form such advice and, in the form of such advice, they can give their members a minority community that has 1%. It's all good for this time, for this moment where we are, but I repeat again, and I hope that it will turn people in those units of local self-government to build their relationships based on ideas, professional abilities and qualifications, and thus build up the needs for its disappearance. When you read the law a little bit, you'll know what the subject is. Maybe now this doesn't seem to be the topic. As far as the economic functioning of local self-government units is concerned, I can only express the words of praise, because, as it is said, there are three ways in the budget of the units of local self-government, namely: original incomes, concessions and third types of income relating to those local self-governments which, based on the previous two, cannot meet all their needs, that they have the right and part of the funds provided for as additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. A little comment on the incomes that have been made -- it's about that term, the very term that defines the concept and the essence of it, that somehow doesn't suit me. In fact, my understanding is that all of the Republic's income is achieved in the territories of the units of local self-government within the Republic, and then it's about the revenues that units of local self-government give way to the Republic, or to say that they support them. So it's not about the incomes paid, it's about the revenues that local self-government units are holding back. That's defined in Article 98. Another term will earn my briefer comment, and that's the concept of border municipalities. It is explained, and I do not agree with such an explanation, that this criterion of border areas does not mean their general lack of development. Not all municipalities that are borderline undeveloped, but quite a number of municipalities, conditionally speaking, enjoy the status of undeveloped municipalities. When it comes to the relationship between the authorities of the Republic and territorial autonomy and the bodies of the units of local self-government, there are clearly specified reasons for disbanding the local self-government unit assembly. All in all, the parliamentary group that I represent, therefore, the Reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party, will in principle accept and accept the proposed text, with great hope that the many amendments will quitely correct, i.e. to correct this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17320	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Momcilo Trajkovic, based on Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17321	Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to take a moment to say a few words about this law on local self-government and to seek an answer to the question of what local self-government is, both Kosovo and Metohija. The law does not regulate local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is the territory under the protectorate and there are entirely different norms, or norms that we have accepted. We accepted them the moment we went out to the elections on November 17th, because the constitutional framework defines the local self-government for the Kosovo-Methochian Serbs and therefore it is impossible for it to be regulated here now. But it's not enough to know that. We must make efforts to respond to a very difficult situation in Kosovo and Metohija, which primarily stems from unregulated local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. As you know, there is a local self-government established on the basic principle of the majority and in the disturbed international relations, in the hostile environment in which Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are present today, it is an instrument for further pressure on the Kosovo-Metochy Serbs. The Serbian Resistance, whose president and MP I am in this parliament, had its own proposal for political and legal principles to introduce self-government for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I know this issue cannot be regulated by law, but unless we treat the issue of Kosovo and Metohija at the moment when one of these system laws is passed, we can get the impression that we are not interested. I propose that the Serbian Parliament make one recommendation, considering first of all our proposal on the political and legal principles of the introduction of Serbian self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. In the disturbed demographic structure in Kosovo and Metohija, local self-government is a key instrument for protecting our people. We do not ask that it be an ethnically pure Serbian self-government, on the contrary, it should be self-government where the compact Serb population lives, where the majority is, and that means that we accept that others live there; we also propose that self-government on one higher level, which is so-called. self-government at the level of autonomous areas. I would not talk about it, but I would like representatives of the parliamentary clubs, and the Assembly to consider this issue when it adopts a law on local self-government in the Republic of Serbia to adopt and recommend and assign the relevant authorities and institutions in Serbia and Yugoslavia (but also in talks with UNMIK) to respect and demand the introduction of self-government for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, we'll have problems. The consequences of such a relationship are visible these days: above all, I think of what is happening in the municipality of Strpce, one Serbian municipality where for three days the president is Albanian, and what UNMIK is doing in northern Mitrovica these days - is trying to establish the rule of SO southern Mitrovica, i.e. Albanian municipalities and Albanian authorities who want to move to the north in some way. That is why I believe that the Serbian Parliament cannot go over it and it is not enough to just pass the Law on Local Self-Government, it is not enough to explain why Kosovo is not there. On the contrary, she should have a clear attitude, her recommendation. I insist on this, because the declaration we adopted ten months ago simply doesn't respect itself, we gave up on it, and the situation on the ground is getting worse and worse. I would once again take the opportunity to call on the Serbian authorities to urgently go to Kosovo and Metohija, especially in Strpce, to northern Mitrovica, where it is possible to go, to talk to people, with UNMIK, to find a solution, because the situation there is complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17322	Thank you. The word is given by MP Išpanovic Istvan, followed by Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17323	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, given that I have submitted a number of amendments to the Bill on Local Self-Government, I will have the opportunity to speak about these amendments, so I would now only say something in principle about the Law. I think it's a good thing we have before us a bill on local self-government and I want to highlight some of the positive features of this law. First of all, I think it is good that local self-government has been decentralised, that more positive experiences have been taken over from the democratic world and that the principle of the European Charter of Local Self-Government has been adopted. Of course, I am aware that certain issues could not have been regulated in the way we would have wanted them to, because constitutional restrictions exist, and we will probably have to bring the law on local self-government after the adoption of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When I talk about restrictions, I primarily think about restrictions on the property of local self-government. We know there's a law that practically takes away the property of local self-government. In addition, there are problems regarding the definition of the municipality, i.e. there is no possibility that each populated place can be a local self-government unit at the same time. There is also a problem with the definition of the city, as only more municipalities can make the city after the constitutional solution so far. We know that the world has accepted the principle that even without more municipalities, we can have the city's local self-government. As regards the amendments submitted, the objective of these amendments was exclusively to improve certain solutions, improve the text in the draft law. I'm sorry that the text itself contains some solutions that are unacceptable. Today I have listened to the statements here that the current Law on Local Self-Government is much better than the proposal that stands before you; I will remind those MPs who were in the previous assembly -- when I was discussing the proposal for a current law on local self-government, I have proposed transferring certain powers to the municipality. At that time, however, learned lawyers from the former government explained that this was impossible, because the law, or constitution, does not allow these powers to be transferred, and today I hear that this could still have been done, that these powers were transferred, but for certain reasons (not to mention) the desire of the then government to regulate the competences of local self-government. In particular, I would refer to the principle and some amendments that suggest the reintroduction of either the Executive Board or the College, as the executive body of local self-government, which is explained by the need to limit the capacity of the President of the Municipality. It has been said here many times today that the president of the municipality under this bill has too much authority. However, I have not heard in parallel the right to have such solutions, let's say, in Western countries; it is known that in some countries the president of the municipality, or mayor, or its executive function has been working extraordinaryly for hundreds of years. It is also known that countries in transition, all those countries that had similar solutions as we now have in the current system (i.e. we had back 50 years), have introduced mayors, or the presidents of municipalities with such an allegedly great power, and therefore I believe that the unwarranted objections that the president of the municipalities has too much power. As for the discussion on how the president of the municipality called off, or the mayor, I have submitted an amendment which, unfortunately, the government has not accepted, and I think that's a good solution. It's an amendment to Article 45 of the Law. It is also said here today that the president will have too much power and it will be difficult for anyone to resolve it. Personally, I think that the proposal that was in the law -- that the resolution is sought on the basis of citizens' statements, means that again, as well as its choice, and the solution is based on a direct choice -- is not good. In my amendment, I made a second proposal: a resolution if there is a conflict between the assembly or the president of the municipality, that the assembly of the municipalities should, by disbanding itself, be practically resolved by the president of the municipality. This is, in parallel, a well-known method of dispensing the president of the municipality, or the mayor, and if he were to act contrary to the law then there is another way, which is that he is required to be resolved through court proceedings. Thank you very much. I'll talk about my amendments especially when they come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17324	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic and then by Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17325	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will vote against this law in principle. When I say that, I'm not saying this law is bad. There's something we don't like, there's something that might not have entered this law, and it's supposed to come in. What I personally like and what the SS is responding to is that in this way and through this law, more party orders are being decentralised, as has been so far, so the president of the municipality must be the one ordered from Belgrade, not the one who is the best committee member and who is worth it in that city. In this way, such party discipline will be avoided, at the expense of local self-government. Also, someone can no longer be the president of the municipality, if his party president can speak well and speak, so he goes to some village to hold the stands there once in four years, and then he never speaks to those citizens again; but if they let him out of that village, he wouldn't know how to find his way back from where he came from. Also, directly in the election, one whose interest is only politics, ladies and gentlemen, will no longer be able to pass. It could've been done by now. Now the citizens are going to ask -- let's see what this candidate's been doing for the last 20 years, the last 10 years, to see what he's done for that city, what his family is like, what kind of company he's been working for or where he owns it. This law will no longer allow it. It is that the great powers of the president of the municipality and that the president of the municipality in some way can do whatever he wants but, gentlemen, the Executive Board has done a series of abuses so far - the party has ordered him to change some DUP in the part of the city where it is not intended for a real house, then the Executive Board to vote, and legally - no one is responsible, because by a decision of the Executive Board, which makes up 15, 23 - 25 members, there is coverage. In this way, the president of the municipality has direct responsibility. And know, ladies and gentlemen, no one will be able to stray, to become the president of the municipality. That someone will be voted by citizens in the city where they live. It's very easy for someone to go to Novi Sad and say -- that's a bad MP, or a bad president, but go to that town where he lives, so say it about him. And the best indicator is the last election, and when one of the politicians goes and attacks someone, then it needs to be reminded how many votes he won as a candidate for the councilman. At least 90% of the MPs who were also candidates for the council are sitting in this room. We know how it went. No more referendums, for and against, it's gone. Now a man of value will be voted, one who has material evidence of what he's been doing for the past 10 years, or 20 years. Also, there's something missing in this law that neither the state nor the Republic has cared about so far. The state did not take care of the exiled and refugee Serbian people from Croatia and Bosnia, because some of our Serbs, to this day and nine years in Serbia, did not get citizenship. It was also not taken into account, or the Republic did not take care of the Serb people exiled from Cosmeta; even the Republic abolished assistance for persons from 18 to 65 years of age. Well, they should be taken into account by local self-government. Perhaps, Mr. Minister, this law lacks that member, that local self-government has an obligation to take care of those families of Cosmet who have nothing to live on, whose members are nowhere to be employed. If they're not being taken into account by local self-government and given this great authority to the president of the municipality, then who's going to take care of them? Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the Soviet Union will not vote for this law in principle. If our amendments are accepted, we may, in particular, vote in favour of this law, for the reason that, again, no one can go astray and no one can cheat on the people anymore because his president speaks well, because they were mythical speeches. The time has come to see who was who and what he was doing. If he's a candidate for the president of the municipality from the ruling party, then the citizens will say, if your party president is currently the president of the state, let's see what you brought to this town and what did you leave this city? Or, if your candidate from the DS, the Prime Minister is also the president of the DS, then the citizens will say, if you haven't helped this city, and maybe you've helped him, you might say something in the election campaign, but if you haven't helped this city when your chairman of the party is the Prime Minister, when will you help this city? So candidate number one has to be the one whose résumé is clean, the one who's host, who's been helping that city, who's not only in the demagogue performances held speeches and stands in the election campaign and learned well to talk, because that's his only interest. The time has come for the work report. Anyone running for president of the municipality will have to justify why he's running for office and what party he belongs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17326	Thank you. Word by MP Cedomir Jovanovic [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17327	Dear Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Markovic, that someone talks well, and the Prime Minister certainly cannot be of less quality than the results of concrete work, but I think it is important to take care of what is spoken publicly in politics. Several times already, despite the fact that we have asked you to put our exiled countrymen past this assembly hall, when it cannot be the subject of our specific conversation and work, you are constantly doing so. The decision of the SRJ Assembly, of December 2000, tasked the federal interior ministry to issue citizenship to citizens of our nationality, fellow citizens who have been exiled from the former Yugoslavia's space. On average, every month, that ministry issues between 15,000 and 18,000 ID cards and passports to those citizens, and this is the most concrete confirmation of your incorrect interpretation of our relationship with citizens who have escaped from the former Yugoslavia and who live today in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We take care of them according to our options and I think they're our common concern. They must not be the subject of party competitions and mutual criticism. The Law on Local Self-Government is a law that creates an environment for a healthier society in which, certainly, both natives and those who have become our citizens by force.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17328	The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17329	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on local self-government. It is one of those laws that deserves special attention from the nature of things both regional and political parties and citizens of those regions. In fact, as an SDP MP representing the Sandzak citizens, I can say that this bill is based on the idea, as a declarative act, basically good. He is certainly better than the current law, which should not be his measure of quality. If we know that one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is the harmonisation of the local self-government system with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and this new law should also contribute to the acceleration of the process of democratisation and decentralisation, then it certainly deserves our support, at least as a first step towards the adoption of a real law on local self-government after constitutional reconstruction. However, the bill also has numerous shortcomings and shortcomings. In the first instance, this refers to the scope of the election section of the municipality, where there is actually no significant newspaper compared to the existing law, if the right of municipalities to establish institutions in the field of primary education and primary health care is excluded. When it comes to trust in business, we have a proposed solution here that businesses are entrusted with the law, all or all of them. This leaves the possibility of bringing into an unequal position of certain municipalities. So far, practice can rightly assume that these would be municipalities that are not at the will of the central government. The citizens of the Sanjak municipalities openly suspect that these municipalities could be denied to perform certain entrusted tasks, because, to remind you, it has been a practice for many years, such things still happen today, unfortunately, when it comes to certain tasks that are in the government's jurisdiction, especially certain resolution ministries. Namely, how to explain the fact that the Home Affairs Secretariat in Novi Pazar, which also covers the municipalities of Tutin and Sjenica, is probably the only one in Serbia where no human changes have occurred yet. Not to mention coordinating the national structure of employees in the MUP and in other state bodies. As far as local police are concerned, as proposed, it is not clear whether these jobs fall within the original section or whether they are entrusted to business. I don't think there's any need to create a fam about it and that these are the achievements of the modern world, that they're all the world's original businesses, but that local police will be in the hierarchy of commanding within the framework of the single MUP of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the shortcomings of this law, as regards the election of the president of the municipality and its powers, it is actually an important step forward, but I think that by adopting some amendments we would still have to limit his powers a little bit, because, as proposed, we have degraded the status of the committee, i.e. The councils of the municipality. As far as the property of the municipalities is concerned, that question is not resolved. There's been a lot of talk here. All in all, we will uphold this law in principle and try to correct it with the amendments as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17330	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, followed by MP Novica Djuraskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he doesn't know where to start when the law's wrong. Approximately as fate is his fate as the fate of DOS rule. It was painted by the energy minister yesterday, he says, "The system is extraordinary, only citizens are dissatisfied." That'll be with you with this law. It seems your law is extraordinary, but the citizens will be completely dissatisfied with what you're doing. Here, I heard from the promoter that so far the president of the municipal assembly has been hypertrophied. Well, I don't see anything about you, Mrs. Micic, you have, like, those powers, I don't see you being hypertrophic. That haircut looks good on you today. In order for you to even create an atmosphere of communication, at least a hint of friendship, if it wasn't for me in this National Assembly. They'd just be looking over the gun. The local police won't be able to survive, not go, not fit into the system. If you have already imagined a few new functions to hand over to the local self-government, it was not possible for it to be passed in law now, and to say - it would be regulated by law. The moment this law comes into force, there is no longer a basis to regulate itself by any other law. The local police don't exist in our system, there are no rights, obligations, jurisdiction, no command. You don't have an armed police force that's not part of the MUP. This will be the first police to step out of the MUP. The president of the municipality is a completely unconstitutional imaginary function. The first meeting of the Constitutional Court will have to deal with Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which knows how citizens decide on the affairs of the municipality, knows only two ways: a referendum and through its representatives in the municipality's assembly, and the assembly of municipalities is elected by committees in the direct elections, a secret vote. There is no other way to represent citizens in the municipality who would be allowed or possible by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the municipality is not the one the Constitution has predicted so far as to be the man through whom citizens will decide on the affairs of the municipality. The promoter told us this is about a division of power. What authority? Well, isn't local self-government a citizen service? There aren't any authorities in local self-government unless you start by imagining it. The president of the municipality proposes a deputy, who must be voted by the assembly of the municipality; if it is not voted by the assembly of the municipality, it has no right to elect another deputy, other than the one proposed by the president of the assembly. The head of the assembly is appointed by the head of the administration, the president of the assembly is appointed by the secretary of the assembly. To what do you place the office of the councilor or the congregation of the congregation itself? To what do you take its sittings; to what do you take its decision? The president of the municipality has a man in the image of the chief architect, has a man in the image of the chief manager, makes deals with them, deals with jobs, jobs. You should at least regulate the rights and obligations of the president of the assembly with the statutes, but read the provisions there on the statutes of the municipality - there is no record of the statutes regulating the rights and duties of the president of the assembly. That's what the legislator lost somewhere, dropped somewhere. You're staying with the local communities. Why -- none of you will probably be able to explain it. It's the direct legacy of Cardello and one system that you say you've cleared up with him, not only in behavior but also in the heads. But I'd say you didn't. It remains self-dependence, something typical. The state must finance everything in its revenue guaranteed by the Budget Law. There's no extra funding. The citizens have no interest in funding further, when they have settled their obligations to the state. Now the state has a duty to them to do the jobs they exist for. What kind of contribution? It worked a long time ago -- "it's been mentioned, it's never come back." If I can get the socialists to clear up, how do you get distracted by political, ideological, economic programs to realize that there is no society where self-deportation is being seduced? The citizen has taxes, excise duties, customs duties, obligations under the law passed by the National Assembly. After that, according to the budget law, the state has obligations to the citizen and nothing more. I apologize to the MPs of the SRS, you should have warned me on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17332	The word has a folk MP, Novica Djuraskovic, followed by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17333	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing a proposal for a law on local self-government. It's already been said quite nicely about the law, but also a lot of criticism. We'll hear a lot more in the next four and a half hours of debate, as far as we have, and I'd only look back at one thing that I think deserves our attention. Before that, all I have to do is comment on some remarks about the intelligence, the powers that the president of the municipality has. It is true that there are certain responsibilities, but, as I recall, in a much greater period of time, the head of the municipal board of the SPS had in some environment. But as a duchess, as an autonomous, I will no longer wonder whose money is ours. Yesterday we opened the door to answer that question. Now, as a Kickinian, I wonder whose property is ours. When I looked at the bill, Article 6 spoke about it, and I was hoping that the amendments would be able to answer that question. I just want to remind you of one thing: that in December 1999, the Fund Act was passed in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. It was the biggest theft and the biggest robbery in this country, according to me, ever done. I thought now was the time to return to local self-government through this law a part of this property, not a part of it but every property, because Kikinda also built the most modern hospital in northern Banat, and this building is now owned by the Republic of Serbia. In 1905, the citizens of Kickinda built a magnificent building in the centre, donated it to their town, and the building is now owned by the Republic of Serbia. That wouldn't be terrible, if I hadn't been taught the experience of December 1999, when the previous government tried to sell out that property that wasn't hers. They sold what was taken, what was stolen from citizens not only of Kickinda, but of all other municipalities and villages in the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately, potential customers didn't buy that story, and as far as I know, not much was sold. We have submitted, together with the reformists of Vojvodina, amendments to that article, to specify and create the possibility of the property returning to local self-government. However, the government (although, as far as I know, there are no more legalists in that government now), said - no, there is a 1995 law and has accepted an amendment that deletes Article 6. So, he's still in effect by that 1995 law. I address all MPs in this assembly of the Republic of Serbia: each of us comes from some middle, and also from the smallest home of culture in a village, to buildings in which the seat of the municipality, where the municipal administration is, was owned by local self-government until December 1999. I think this is an opportunity to get it back and I expect that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Government will submit an amendment, since Article 6 has been abolished, and we cannot discuss our amendments. Then the government, as a legislator, could submit one amendment (and in the course of the debate it has the right to do so) and return what has always belonged to it to the local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17334	I thank the People's MP. The People's MP Dragan Jovanovic has the word, followed by MP Radic Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17335	Dear MPs, the Honorable working presidency, after big stories and a long time, we have a law on local self-government in front of us. In the pre-election programme of DOS, in addition to economy, the rule of law, privatisation, local self-government took up one of the central places. I don't want to talk about business today, because of the economy in the last year and a half of the day in this country, or who's talking or who's writing. So, that's probably a forbidden word; that I don't get a warning from a charming president, I don't want to talk about it. I won't even talk about privatisation, because the people think it's a sale; therefore, it's not an option to talk. I'm not going to talk about the rule of law either, because after the Prime Minister's statement to this speaker, that the Constitution is not a sacred letter and that it can be violated for the sake of some daily needs, it's illusory to talk about the rule of law. I'll talk about local self-government. In a pre-election DOS campaign, after those six billion dollar stories at the border, the main story was local self-government, with a tendency to decentralisation. There was talk of it at every rally, every show, and the people believed it. But after big stories, nothing usually happens. These big stories, now that it's February, they associate with that story about cat's love -- no bigger shit or less effect. Finally there was a law on local self-government. I can say that this text of the law is an insult to the citizens of Serbia. Why? Because it comes from the assumption that Serbian citizens do not know what local self-government is, that they do not know what a municipality is, that they do not know what a municipality should look like. Mr. Minister worked in his own time in a municipality that even had a local public income administration, where all revenues were collected at the municipality level, so part of the revenues is eligible for the state's costs as much as it costs the state. It is not because of the familiar situation in Kosovo, the situation has changed. I'd split this law into three parts. He has the first part that is, in fact, his focus, which is most talked about today, which is the scientific and entertainment part. Why is it scientific and why is it fun? It's scientific, because one of the scientists, it looks like the promoter, has managed to come up with a new position as president of the municipality, i.e. The president of the congregation, with the Pharaoh's powers. This is not what the Pharaohs in Egypt had. The second major scientific discovery by the Ministry of Local Self-Government or the Serbian government is the municipal manager. I have to tell you that citizens in Serbia -- both in Jagodina and Zajecar, especially in Batocina, Merošini, Bolovac -- were crazy about the municipal manager. I think they're too happy now, because this government and the promoter gave them the opportunity to hire a local municipal manager. Why does this part of the law have a fun character? Because it entertains MPs and citizens. Here, there were no MPs who didn't speak of the authority of the president of the municipality. So MPs are entertained by the authority of the president of the municipality, so they don't think about the sad part called funding. See Article 132. When does it take effect? It never comes into force. It states in Article 132 that part of the law relating to the authorities of the municipality's administration shall enter into force on the day of the regular election for the committees. Since there will be no regular elections in Serbia, they will certainly be premature, so it will never come into force. At best, it takes effect over two and a half years, and we adopt it at an extraordinary session and all MPs entertain the powers of the president of the municipalities. We already have an announcement of the constitution. It is likely that in two and a half years, the Constitution will be adopted; hence, what needs to be entered into Article 132, where the manager and the president of the municipality are in effect, at best, for two and a half years, means on the day of the regular elections. In the meantime, the constitution will most likely be passed. That's why it's fun -- it means that MPs are having fun, so they don't (and also the people) pay attention to this sad part of the law. The sad part of the law is, ladies and gentlemen, the story of decentralisation and the fact that it's very perfidious, decentralisation through funding. I'll explain how. The main source of funding in the previous 10 years in municipalities was a given part of the sales tax. When you look at statistics, you can see that the municipality's income was 60, 70, 80, and even 90% in some municipalities. It's an arrears part of the sales tax paid by all Serbian citizens when they get their hands on the pocket. So, milk, drugs, whatever they buy, they pay sales taxes. The new proposal in Article 98 suggests that the reduced share of sales tax be 8%. Look at the second sad story, which no one has been able to tell here: the city of Belgrade (the influence of the Civil League and those on the side), gets 15% of the sales tax. Look at the last 10 years, 15% of sales taxes for the city of Belgrade, ladies and gentlemen, mathematically made more than total income to 8%, what is guaranteed, than in all 147 municipalities in Serbia. To make the irony bigger, MPs from municipalities across Serbia will also vote on it, with more than 20 municipality presidents sitting in this hall. I would ask, it is my turn, and it is moral that the presidents of the municipalities of Arandelovac, Gornji Milanovac, Aryl, Užička Požega come out for a pay phone and explain to the citizens of Serbia why this law is good, why it is a good funding. Part of the sales tax is constantly narrowing down, and that's safe income, and what's being given? I have to tell you -- in order to cloud the situation, 10 new taxes are being paid to the municipality. Says the Proposer generously - even part of the incomes that have been republican so far; not to read, I'll tell you by heart, part of the tax, or the total tax on the issue of mobile goods, stands. You know what that is? The issue of the cobwebs for the roasting of the rakiah, the issue of the marriage tent; it is, according to the law, look at the side, and you will see. Taxes on the insurance of a person shall be taxed. Who's in charge in small municipalities? Tax from gambling, real estate tax, forest land income given for the pasture, forest land incomes that are issued. Furthermore, as the original income of the municipality, a residence tax is given. That's all grand income. I would ask the presidents of the municipalities to come out, if anyone would, to honestly say how much income was achieved from these listed taxes. Minister Djelic could be generous, since these are good taxes, to take all those taxes for the Republic, and to raise the sales tax that is due to municipalities by 5%. What is it that is very bad for municipalities outside of Belgrade, in this law? The budget will continue to be established, i.e. spending in municipalities will be determined by an annual law that has another limiting factor, limiting the revenues of municipalities. They give you, say, 8% of the sales tax and 3.5% of the income tax on citizens, but they tell you -- the Kraljevo municipality has a right to 50 or 150 million, it doesn't matter. When he collects 150 million, the tide stops on that basis. So the development factor in medium-developed cities and municipalities is absolutely stopping. The promoter is not so stingy, he would be generous, so he said, if one of the authorities of education or health is transferred, it would be given the right to municipalities to raise their personal income tax. So again from the citizens' pocket, not from the sales tax that is paid, but from citizens' pockets. So funding is a disaster. Perfided decentralisation, more people in Serbia, knows decentralisation is not decentralisation of authority, but decentralisation of a bag of money. Therefore, it cannot be mocked by Serbian citizens. Here's the real reaction from Kickinda: we carry power in a single constituency - 1080 registered voters, and DOS - 11 (and by letters 11) votes. So, citizens recognize all that, they know what a community is, they know what decentralisation is, they know what local self-government is. Another cynical part of this law, I don't know, didn't make me sad, but it surprised me, it's said like this -- if municipalities aren't satisfied with some solutions or if the ministry isn't satisfied with the statutes of the municipalities can go to the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Imagine, the promoter, the Serbian government, is not ashamed to mention the Constitutional Court of Serbia, and people have been silenced for a year and a half saying that Serbia's Constitutional Court should be formed. I don't think it's right at least; the Constitutional Court will probably not form itself, it shouldn't refer municipalities, citizens and ministries to something that will never be formed. I think it would be very interesting for the citizens of Serbia, because this law will be voted by all municipalities in Serbia, that the presidents of the municipality (and I have counted them), come out for a pay phone, to commend if it is commendable; I am not always so negatively inclined, let them praise what is positive for citizens to know. Because it's sad to watch local television where you see every president of the municipality, and on cross-reference issues of citizens, a constant story -- it's not in jurisdiction, we can't finance. It's very annoying for the citizens. Therefore, the SPS MPs will vote against this law because they consider it a new step towards centralised rather than decentralisation. We are committed to withdrawing the law, to pass a new law on local self-government that will fully respect the principles of the state and where all constitutional rights of citizens will be realised, and the bag will not remain in Mr Djelic's hands, but rather the funds will be decentralised with powers, not to decentralisation powers, and we keep the bag in every way.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17336	The People's MP Radic Jokovic has the word, followed by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17337	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government of the DOS meets one of its pre-election promises regarding decentralisation of government. The municipality shall carry out the original tasks defined in Article 19. Proposal for a law and within which it adopts regulations on its own, in accordance with its rights and duties laid down in the Constitution, the law and the Statute. This proposal extended the scope of the original jobs to the establishment of institutions and organisations in the field of primary education, primary health care and social protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17338	May I have your attention, please, or I'd like to set a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17339	Practically, the municipality is responsible for all activities carried out in its territory, starting with the adoption of development programmes, through urban plans, budgets, development of municipal activities, development of municipal infrastructure, maintenance of residential buildings, construction, reconstruction and maintenance of local and untegorised roads and streets in populated areas. Article 22 defines the amount of work for local police, but it is not clear whether it is an organisation, whether it belongs to local self-government or part of the police system at the republican level. In addition to election operations, the municipality also carries out entrusted tasks that are within the scope of the rights and duties of the Republic. In the context of entrusted operations, municipalities carry out certain inspection tasks in the field of transport of goods and services, agriculture, water, forestry and other tasks in accordance with the law. The financing of the local self-government unit is made from the original and allocated revenues, as well as the additional funds. The authorities of the municipality are the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality. The Assembly of the Municipalities shall be composed of committees elected by citizens. The number of council members in the congregation of the municipality cannot be less than 19 and greater than 75. For the sake of more precise definition, a minimum and maximum number of voters per committee should be determined. The assembly elects the speaker of the assembly and deputy speaker of the assembly, appoints and resolves the secretary of the assembly, on a proposal from the speaker of the assembly. The president of the municipality is elected directly by a secret vote and performs the executive function in the municipality. The president of the municipality has a deputy to replace him in the event of his absence. The deputy president of the municipality is appointed and dismissed by the president of the municipality, with the agreement of the assembly of the municipality. As the president of the municipality practically assumed the position of the current Executive Board, i.e. the executive function, and retained the attributes of the president of the municipality under the applicable law on local self-government, it is justified to ask whether he is able, by capacity, to carry out this function himself successfully. The government has accepted an amendment envisioning the establishment of the municipality's president's cabinet, which can number up to 11 members and tasked with helping the municipality's president perform executive duties. The president of the municipality, being voted directly by a secret vote, is fairly well protected from the impeachment institute, as the motion in the process calls for a voter's statement by a secret vote. The paper in this law represents the possibility of setting up a major architect in the municipal administration, as well as the possibility of negotiating business with the municipal manager, if the statute is provided. The budget of the local self-government unit provides funding for original and trusted transactions. Budgetary funds are provided from the original and concessioned public revenues. If this does not provide for the financing of fixed transactions, additional appropriations from the Republic's budget shall be provided. There are 16 original public revenues, but the problem is that many municipalities do not have all sources of income. So the Luciani municipality, which I come from, from seven sources, has not made any revenue in the past year. The participation of original public revenues during 2001 is 18% in the municipality of Luciani's budget. This suggests that the municipality, without the public incomes paid, could not function. Assigned public revenues represent the biggest revenue in municipal budgets. The Republic applies to the unit of local self-government of public income made on its territory, and that is: the income tax of the citizens of 100%, part of the income tax, the tax on the fund at a rate of up to 3.5%, the property tax of 100%, the inheritance tax and the gift of 100%, the tax on the transfer of absolute rights 100%, and part of the tax on the sales of products and services. The Republic also gives in to compensation for the construction, maintenance and use of local and untegorised roads, as well as part of other fees. Article 99. The proposal for a law on local self-government - a special law lays down part of the income tax and part of the sales tax on products and services in percentages and the annual volume of funds belonging to the municipality based on these revenues. Annual funding per municipality is determined in accordance with the general balance of public income and public expenditure, starting with the following criteria: size of municipality territory, population number, number of primary and secondary schools, number of children covered by social care for children and the development of the municipality. In primary and secondary schools, the number of schools should be taken next to the number of schools, as the costs rise with the number of departments, but they grow much higher with the number of schools, thanks to the cost of maintaining school buildings, heating and so on. The same principle should also be maintained in the number of facilities for the accommodation of children covered by social care for children. It is necessary to leave the inherited practice, which is detained by Article 99 of this Law, to determine the annual volume of funds belonging to municipalities. It is necessary to determine the percentage part of the income tax and the percentage part of the sales tax on products and services, which, on the basis of criteria, belongs to the financing of municipalities and to abolish the annual volume of funds, etc. limit. Thanks to this limitation from the Municipality of Luciani's budget in the republican budget, an amount of 4,710,000 has been allocated in the past year. This amount is greater than the amount that the municipality could allocate to finance the material costs of primary and secondary education, as criteria for determining the volume of funds are such that not only the number of schools was taken but only the number of departments, which reduced the amount of funds, and the material costs of schools could not be covered to the extent necessary. In such conditions of funding, the budgets of municipalities, with reduced sources of funding, will not be able to finance the envisaged commitments, which are further increased by this bill for the cost of covering basic education and primary health care. The question of funding the local police, which is not defined by this law. Thus, such municipalities need to increase the amount of income paid to ensure normal functioning. Finally, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the draft law in principle, and from the outcome of the adoption of the proposed amendments will depend on our support for the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17340	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic, followed by a National MP, Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17341	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have to agree on one thing, which is that this law has caused great public attention; we can freely say that there have been a lot of comments about the concept and its implementation. At first, a principled question is raised, which is that the order of regulation in this congregation is becoming very strange. However, it was more logical for this law to precede the amendment of the Constitution, to be preceded by regionalisation, and then at the level of local self-government to regulate relations. In the light of this law, we have the first thesis that this is a alignment with the Charter of Local Self-Government in European countries. Whenever the alignment with Europe is mentioned, the old question arises -- what's older. Is it necessary to create the first economic conditions for the implementation of such a law, or should we first give all authority? The second question is the question of deberocracy. In the people, as well as in the Serbian Unity Party, one question arises - whether this law will now strengthen a new bureaucracy, so-called. local bureaucracy. We must admit that the human resources we now have at the local level are not of any quality nor are they up to these powers that they now have, and the question is how they will deal with such a burden of authority and responsibility in new conditions. When the word "democracy" is said, there is an immediate question -- what about too much authority from the president of the municipality. We know that the president of the municipality has received extremely great powers and this is causing controversy, causing anxiety. Simply put, there are two thesis here, that we are not yet mature in this law and that this is the Balkans according to the mentality of our people and the question is how people will deal with such a burden of responsibility. Also one question that raises comments is the question of the municipal manager. I would rather say that all officials in the municipality should have the function of manager and task to act as managers, to bring foreign capital and capital of other investors into their municipalities and to make sure that the municipality works as well as possible. It's more logical that the president of the municipality can take managers from different areas, like agriculture, modern technology, and it doesn't make sense for one man to be able to unite all of this. When it comes to revenues, the original revenues are also a tempting thing, however, it can be a very "hot potato" in the hands of our new local government, as it practically opposes the local population and has been forced to take revenue from its fellow citizens to carry out its duties successfully. Don't be surprised when this law comes into force, in front of municipalities there will be more and more unsatisfactory teachers, doctors and the like. That wasn't the case until now, because it was always an excuse that it was in the jurisdiction of the Republic. In general, this law is still a major challenge, because it should mean that after the adoption of this law, elections that would show national will and where people who are safe, valuable, responsible, disciplined should be given trust, and those people their fellow citizens know well. The Serbian Unity Party hopes that our amendment will be adopted to discuss local elections after six months of adoption of this law. It would be a comfort and it would be a great motivation for all of us to fight and prove at a local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17342	The word has a folk MP Slavoljub Matic, followed by Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17343	Fellow People's Elections, I will try briefly, as I will represent several amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia that we have prepared for this bill, to say a few words. I cannot bypass one story, an anecdote from a meeting of the president of municipalities that originates from the Democratic Party of Serbia, where our counterpart Baja Milosevic from the Democratic Party of Serbia, an MP and president of the municipality of Arandjelovec, said -- when a citizen gives a shit where he will not know where he will go, so he comes to the president of the municipality to complain. Yes, it is. The current law is just like that. Citizens think that the broad powers of the president of the municipalities and the fact that this does not stand under the current Law on Local Self-Government. The powers are not great, they're almost nothing. The public thinks the president of the municipality can help some of his actions, and of course he can only be the first among the equal - the council. The law is trying to solve the problem - firstly, by direct elections by the mayor or the president of the municipality, by broad powers conferred on the president of the municipality or the mayor. That's what some lawyers are trying to say unconstitutional, but in any case in a broad way, where the broadest powers are just given to the presidents of municipalities that then fall into the possibility that and how they abuse their function. That is why most of the amendments we have submitted as MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia are based on the desire to bring the whole story of the municipality president's jurisdiction and the municipality's own assembly into constitutional frameworks. That's our intention. We also discussed this intention with representatives of some other parliamentary groups, with our main partners here in Parliament, with representatives of the Republic government, and since I participated in these talks, it seemed to me that we would come to a reasonable position, where we would approach the problem in balance. Unfortunately, our daily political opportunities, as they are, have not led to an agreement, although we all had a rather unique view that the bill should be corrected in that part. The best example of what I'm saying is amendments submitted by DOS representatives, i.e. MPs who mostly stem from the Democratic Party, who have also seen the problem. But their proposal, which unfortunately was adopted by the Republic Government, i.e. Resort Ministry, is a hybrid way of organising, i.e. a proposal based on the municipality's proposal by the president of the municipality to elect members of the municipal cabinet, to whom I am the president of the municipality, so the man with the broadest powers, defines their partial actions to be carried out within the municipality - not the government but the cabinet. It is certainly something that conflicts with our intensities to find a real balance within the framework of the law between the president of the municipality and the people's electors who are council members, who will be able to influence policy implementation through the municipal council, as defined by us from the Democratic Party of Serbia, so through one kind of municipal government, if we find the right workaround and one and another executive body. It would be one of the right paths and for the public's sake, I'll let you know what the powers of one and another executive authority would be. It is our proposal, and you will hear it through the amendments, that the mayor himself is elected directly, that he represents and represents the municipality, that he performs executive functions that are not by law and statutes placed in the jurisdiction of the municipal council, that he proposes another municipal act, if not determined by the statute as the responsibility of the council, to propose the selection and resolution of the municipal council, or individual members, to carry out other tasks in accordance with the law, statute and other acts. We introduce the concept of municipal council, which would count from four to 11 members depending on the size of the municipality, where all of them would be professionals and would be responsible for the following jobs - the municipal council executes decisions of the municipality, proposes the budget, proposes other general acts when established by the statute, takes care to carry out entrusted tasks, appoints and resolve the heads of directors of the administration, directs and coordinates the work of the municipal administration, solves in the second degree in the administrative procedure, oversees the work of the municipal administration, controls the work of the budget, adopts individual acts when authorised by law, statute or decision and performs other tasks in accordance with the law, statute and other acts of the municipality. This is the main part of our amendments, and we will try to convince you, in order to bring into the right relationship the assembly of the municipality and the directly elected mayor or president of the municipality. It's our wish, and I hope we have confirmation in your votes. What's the proposal adopted by the government? The Democratic Party's proposal, which is said to be -- the president of the municipality has all executive functions, the president of the municipality suggests members of his cabinet unless the municipality's two-time assembly elects members of cabinets proposed by the president of the municipality, then the Assembly elects members of the cabinet itself. But the question arises when we say - the president of the municipality, what does that mean. Is it also possible for the committees to participate in local self-government, in executive power? Unfortunately not, because according to the very proposal, which was also accepted, the president of the municipality defines the jurisdiction of members of the municipal cabinet. Tubi one bad proposal passed more from political, and less from some of our common interests to make the law good. Otherwise, the law itself improves certain things that have so far been a hindrance to the development of local self-government. The extension of jurisdiction, when it comes to trust and the original affairs of the Assembly of the Municipality, and their alignment with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, allows the municipality itself to behave on the basis of its example from Europe in which we all want to enter as soon as possible. When it comes to funding, we cannot be satisfied with the solutions offered. That is why we have defined that several amendments will improve the funding of local communities, i.e. local self-government, and in that sense I think that it will benefit all of us to support such amendments. I just have to say, when it comes to our experience so far, that local self-government is participated somewhere about 4% in the use of national gross income. Under the new law, local self-government participated about 5.7% of national income; European experience, the European average is somewhere between 9 and 10%, and you have an extreme example of Great Britain, where local self-government participates 12% of national gross income. So we from local self-government want to make as much part of this particular part of the income, which is being achieved in the territory of the municipality, and I hope that in that sense the law will also be improved. Otherwise, it will be difficult to define ourselves to raise our hand to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17344	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are another member of this government besides Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who is doing very well in things he doesn't know at all. You have proved this with your exposé, humiliating us in the National Assembly, as well as the citizens of Serbia, who know about the local self-government and how much. If the exposé was written to you by a lawyer sitting next to you, that's enough, two. This law certainly is a law of constitutional character and is a system law, not because we want it to be a system law, but because the Constitution obliges us to do so. But what it means is system law -- that's what you obviously don't know. It is a law that implies the definition of a single continent, meaning the codification of legislation in one area. That's what this law doesn't have, because it lacks provisions on the electoral system, on the conduct of elections, and the law on the capital, which you here suggest will be passed, which means it's going back. For the first time in recent history, we received the Law on Local Self-Government in 1999, and before that, we had the Law on Territorial Organization and Local Self-Government; this law, if anything, had this significant positive side, which represented the codification of all legislation concerning local self-government. It is clear, of course, that local self-government should not perform state functions. However, you are also predicting the transfer of certain state functions, as the original jurisdiction of local self-government -- here I am primarily referring to the police. True, it is difficult to find a measure of what needs to remain in office of the state, and what can be transferred as the original jurisdiction, thus establishing itself at the level of local self-government, when it comes to health, education, culture. It depends mainly on the wealth of a society in all countries. As rich as society is, it can also give up some of its competences and that it is exercised by local self-government as its original powers. I think it's clear to everyone what local self-government is, that definition doesn't need to be repeated. But as far as local self-government's jurisdiction is concerned, you've kept the principle of emulation, or the listing of jurisdiction. You haven't decided, possibly, to some more democratic principle, let's say for the principle of the general clause, as it exists in Sweden, so to say, anything that doesn't work by the state can do local self-government. That would be some progress. So, when it comes to jurisdiction, I see here that you have returned to the peace council, which has not been in practice at all in the Serbian people, in our country, and we should not forget that local self-government has also had this tradition in Serbia, since the JII and JIII centuries, so we say that a whole chapter of the 1888 Constitution was dedicated to local self-government, that in 1889 the Law on Municipalities was passed, and in 1902 again. So we are not at all behind the rest of the countries in Europe and the world. You are talking about the European Charter, and both previous laws that defined local self-government were fully in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government and there is no reason to present this to the public as a reason for the adoption of a new law. According to us, Serbian radicals, there was absolutely no reason to now go to the adoption of a new law on local self-government. You actually want to create an illusion here that this congregation is doing something significant, that we're doing something important, and we're not actually doing anything or we're wasting our time on insignificant things, something that can't live for a long, long time; because, in one of the members of this law, you're saying that it will only apply after the next regular elections, which is absurdly prejudge whether the next elections will be regular or be extraordinary. It's something that's unacceptable. In your exposé, you didn't tell us which one of you looked up to the European state when you predicted such responsibilities to the president of the municipality. As far as I know, there is a president of the municipality, for example. in France, or Greece, which is also an executive body, but there is also someone above it, for example, a Prefect (in both Greece and France), which can undo all decisions of such a president. There's no such thing here. There is one more thing, which is very discriminatory, which is one legal void -- there is a deputy president, or mayor, who he chooses, there are two reasons when the president can resign before the time he is elected -- if he is sentenced to prison for up to six months or if he resigns. Well, if, say, he's in prison for three or four months, who's gonna be president until he gets back from prison; that deputy president he brought off the street. I'm sorry, I don't have any more time, but when we talk about the amendments, we'll point out all the shortcomings in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17346	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word (by the Rules of Procedure). )
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are no conditions for the work of the National Assembly, and I therefore ask that, on the basis of Article 82(2) and Article 95(1), we determine whether there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17348	I ask the MPs to establish the quorum, so that we may continue the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2002-02-05-0.u17349	Ladies and gentlemen, since MPs from the MPs' groups, except for the DOS parliamentary group, which, most of all, holds the quorum in this assembly, since MPs from other parliamentary groups are not aware and think they are not obliged to participate in the quorum, I will propose certain measures for these situations next time. Now I'm setting a 30-minute break, which is where we'll finish today's work, and we'll be working on it tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2002. I would like to inform you that according to official record, today's session is attended by 155 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into MPs. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Rodoljub Sabic, Dragan Jocic, Vladimir Dobrosavljević, Dragan Šormaz, Petar Misic, Dragan Kovacevic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Alen Selimović, Zoran Boskovic and Vasilija Pavicevic and Radomir Naumov in the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, in accordance with Articles 83 and 84. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I also invited representatives of the National Movement "Resist", representatives of the Association of Families of Kidnapped and Missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Yugoslavia on the third item of the agenda. We continue to consider the 3rd item of the agenda - by reviewing the Bill on Local Self-Government, in principle. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
