ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u618	Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all, and I hereby open the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina We begin our session with 24 hours of delay. You know for what reasons. It was a two-day session of the House of Representatives. I am also assessing today's weak response by the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, because obviously two days of sitting is a lot for obligations that are certainly in those high bodies and too large. I find that all the envoys are in their seats. So we have a complete quorum and we can make a full decision. So we're moving to the 6-session agenda, which you've won, but let me start by proposing one supplement. Since the resolution on the economic and social policy of Mr Ibrahim Spahić, which we discussed in the last session, has been agreed, in the meantime, I suggest that we put it as a first point, and in that, if you agree, I pray that we make that statement, shall we, poslovnički is perfectly fine. We'll inform you immediately, and if we move to the agenda, I'll inform you there's no need to discuss it. I ask you, as the first point, can we put in line a resolution on the economic and social policy of the promoter, Mr Ibrahim Saphić? Thank you very much. That's unanimous. In this case, the agenda would read: Ad.1.Agreement of the resolution on economic and social policy. Report from the Commission to the People's House. Ad.2. Proposal for an election law. Second reading, the proposal of the Council of Ministers and envoy Nikola Špirić. Ad.3. Proposal for a law on archive construction and the archive of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First reading. Ad.4. The answer to the envoy's questions and initiatives. I ask you to Mr. Ivo Divković. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u619	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here's this list that's left from the House of Representatives. So, let me propose, on behalf of the Croatian People's Representatives' Club in the House of Nations, an amendment to the order of the agenda. We accept here, we agree that the first item of the agenda will be the resolution on the economic social policy that is in line. We propose that the second item of the agenda of the Law on Archival Construction and the Archives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the motion of the Presidency, first reading, be the third item of the agenda to be the draft electoral law and then the fourth, a clear answer to the envoy's questions. The reason is that the Croatian People's Club has a need for practical consultations before we move to the third point on our agenda proposal is the Election Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u620	Thank you very much. So now the draft agenda would be like Mr. Divković said, only here would the second and third points replace order, so the third points become 2nd and 2nd points. I invite you to plead who is to change the order of these two points? Thank you very much. We have a unanimous agenda. Ad.1. Commission's report to the People's House on the alignment of the resolution on economic and social policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ad2. Proposal for a law on archive construction and the archive of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading Ad.3. Proposal for electoral laws, second reading, and draft election law was the proposal of envoy Nikola Špirić, Ad.4. The answer to parliamentary questions and initiatives. Please, who is it to adopt a agenda like this? Unanimity, thank you. We adopt the agenda and move to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. Consent to Resolution 3 The resolution is, you have received the text agreed as I and said the debate about it does not exist. Voting too. It is simply for us to realize that this home now has a resolution on economic and social policy, and thus we have finished the first point. I thank you for putting it on the agenda and in this way we managed very effectively to end it. We are already at the second item of the agenda Ad.2. The draft law on archive construction and the archives of Bosnia and Herzegovina The law is discussed in the first reading. Here, the law has to be passed at the House of Representatives. It should also be said that he has been in parliamentary procedure for a long time, now we will not go in for what it is. It is worth saying that this country needs this law and it is worth saying that we have a proposing present here. I'm asking you who's answering for your word. I think it's on behalf of the promoter. Here you go. Be kind enough to introduce yourself for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u621	I am Zahirović Šaban from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Archives. Dear Presidency, Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs on behalf of the Bureau of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also on behalf of the entire archival profession, I would like to say, without a particular reference to the content of the Law, because you are familiar with it, and I will probably be professionally biased and pathetic, that in our profession we tend to claim that there is only one document in fact. A man is born and begins life with a document. He gets a birth certificate, dies by document, gets a death certificate. Everything's in between is a document. The first vaccine, the school, the job. That's the way it is in all circumstances, in all my life. That's why it's worth it. It's a civilization need, and it's necessary to protect those documents. That is why at all levels of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, entities, cantons, counties. It is necessary to protect these important sources of evidence. I will highlight only three basic responsibilities they commit and suggest that at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina regulation and legal norms this significant area. First of all, the Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina was founded in 1947 and has since then collected about 400 collections and funds of archival building that are indivisible and integrated according to the basic international archival features, and it represents a common heritage and common public well-being. And for this reason, it comes of course from various, diverse content, from various historical periods and how indivisible, how common heritage is, it is perfectly natural for it to be under common democratic control. And without the adoption of this law, and later under the legal acts that follow in this Rules of Use. The internal structure regulation is not possible equal legal control or fair personnel and professional structure of the Archives, and according to the accepted principles for the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So from just these three, besides other responsibilities. It is the first, the second being the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is perfectly natural for the professional institution to take care of this joint structure, among other things, here in this honorable home. 4 And the third concerted interests of profession and membership in international archive associations. Bosnia and Herzegovina's archive has been a member of the International Archive Council since 1994. Unique standards and rules, positive experiences and others. Only these three, apart from other responsibilities, point out that not by adopting legislation in this area at the level of liability in this case, shared at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, would make national interests of three constituent peoples more difficult, as well as of all citizens, because the need to use archival sources to prove scientific and other purposes and needs is pronounced and intense. The reasons are generally known. Time of transition, property rights, degree of damage or destruction etc. This substance, significant at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is regulated in a three-step manner. So, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Archives has only legal authority on common heritage. Entities archives have full independence of legal and subsidized responsibility towards entity governments, and the continental and county level at canton level, i.e. in Republika Srpska as far as I know, at the level of the region, although the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is so that because of disorganisedness, due to legal discrepancies we have a good part of the space which is not covered by archive jurisdiction. So I ask you, with your vote for the Law on Archival Construction and the Archives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to contribute to an important area in our community's life to get the basis for momentum, to join the countries of modern archival service. That archival dust smells intoxicated, and yellow documents get one special glow. That the modern way of administration stimulates new swings and more intense modernisation. Thank you for your understanding, your voice of responsibility and vote for.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u622	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered this law, found that there is a constitutional basis for it. I remind you that there was no amendment and I invite you to discuss the principles since it was the first reading. Is there anyone in that sense answering for a word? Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u623	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests. I was one of the people who before the law was passed, asked for some documents that were made this time and you see when the procedure was followed, there's no reason. Dake, there's no reason to argue with a legal project like this. So I asked for a statement from the government of Republika Srpska, the government of the Federation, the archives of both entity and these documents are here today. These are institutions that have agreed on their views and have simply agreed on the legal text relating to the archive construction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a way and an example of how those legal projects can be reached, a series of legal projects around us unfortunately still dispute. This is the way to respect the procedure, and when all those who submit similar legal projects respect the procedure, here we will have fewer problems with saying about legal projects. So, I support this legal project. My suggestions and remarks were in the process before. She's respected, and so I'm going to vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u624	5 Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u625	Mr. Chairman and ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Constitutional-Law Commission has accepted it without any interventions, as this law has already said, in its first reading. I suggest that today, when we finish our first reading at the same time, we open up a very clear process to make the second reading known about this law and that we accept it today and allow the institution to work, if possible in accordance with your approach to the College. Until this moment, we have not had any amendments on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, no one has responded, except Mr Špirić procedurally and this issue in Parliament has been exhausted. No delegate from three of our clubs has made any remarks, not even a point. It would be quite correct, if there are no obstacles in the sense of the Rules of Procedure to treat the Proposer correctly, or to this institution and to themselves, so as not to block these people indefinitely in relation to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u626	I thank the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. This makes it easier for him to work for the College, and that's the college's proposal, but I'm still not gonna close the debate. Does anyone else appear in the debate in principle? If not, I ask you to vote on whether we will approach the debate on articles i.e. in the second reading. Unanimity. This is what we joined the debate in the articles. I'm reopening the debate. Is there anyone in this sense reporting for discussion? Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u627	I absolutely support law-making, and I really wouldn't want to complicate anything in the process. However, perhaps even after reasons, this one should withdraw my observations professionally, etc. But let's say in Article 38 when it comes to the director of the BiH Archives, among other conditions the VSS requires that professional works in the field of archivism etc. are published. I don't know if it's necessary to stand there simply because people who have all these forward references must probably have published papers. It's one thing and the other. The Council of Ministers gives consent to the internal body regulation of the BiH Archives. Whether it's necessary or able to resort the ministry. Is that some deal, that's more questions than some.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u628	Thank you very much. I must once again remind myself that the amendment has not been made and that we are in favour of amendments, this is not an amendment action, it is too late for amendments. We are already in the second reading and I invite you to, in that sense, if anyone answers the word we are having a debate. Here you go. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u629	6 Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this law has been in one way or another for a long time, it is freely now available in a parliamentary procedure before the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He was adopted by the House of Representatives and I suggest that this home today, in the same text, so that we had as soon as possible the Law, so in the same text adopted by the House of Representatives. I appreciate that it's an important law. The people who are in front of the promoter before and have now explained the need for this law are truly convincing, credible. All procedures need to be respected, and I suggest that we approach the plea act and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u630	Thank you very much. We have a very clear proposal that the College agrees with. If no one answers their word anymore, and they don't answer, I urge you to vote on the Law on the BiH Archives. Who's for please? As far as I can tell. So there's no need to ask further, because it's unanimous. The law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. I understand Mr. Divković, if he will remain at his request. He asked for a break in advance. Please repeat that, if, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u631	Mr. Chairman, I announced it right away at the beginning and the Croatian Representatives Club is asking for a break. Here's to agree we're proposing a half-hour break to try to bring our position into line before we move to the third item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u632	Thank you very much. Yeah, just a minute. I'll give you my word, Mr. Jusufović. I don't have any say in business anymore. It's half an hour's break, but I give you my word. Please, just so you know, that's a good will. There's no reason to be complicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u633	Okay, thank you for your goodwill. Mr. Chairman of what I'm about to say, this goes in favor of this particular proposal, but something has been changed. I'm also on behalf of the Bosniak delegates' club myself, and I intend to take a break. But the difference is, I suggest that the break be at least 60 minutes, because I think it'll be enough. The reason why I suggest that in this break, the College, together with the club presidents, sit down and discuss the way and technology of today's work on this election law so that we don't allow ourselves a marathon debate, as yesterday was at the House of Representatives, and I think that this meeting will really serve us and everyone else, to sort things out and to agree on a further 7 working ways. Actually, that's the point. Well, we'll see, if it is, I'll ask for a maximum of 6o, if it's over in half an hour, in half. So maybe they'll fit in, eventually, maybe right after this session we'll have, probably each with his club a shorter meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u634	Half an hour's break. A break in 10.45 minutes Members of poslanik, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished gentlemen of the media, who keep following us, we came to the second item of the agenda and then the Croatian Envoys Club asked for a break. I'm asking the club president to brief us on the results.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u635	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to point out that the Croatian Club has been seeking a break because the information from this room has left that the HDZ Club has requested a break at today's session. It's not the HDZ, it's the Croat Club. The assessment of our club during this break is that we are very close to reaching agreement on the electoral law, all together. So all three clubs. The assessment is also ours, so it's a real shame that yesterday at the House of Representatives, where there was also a strong consensus on the law, which has not made an additional effort to reach a final consensus on the law. And because of this, we appreciate that, with additional consultations of a few days, it can achieve an agreement that will result in the adoption of the Election Law, which would be an extremely desirable signal to both the domestic and international community and the public politically that Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this Parliament, too, has insisted on our path towards upholding the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. We appreciate that it is better to reconcile views for a few more days than to question the most important legal projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina from Dayton to today. And that is why we propose to suspend today's session with these arguments, to continue it after these few days of alignment with the debate on the third point of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u636	I thank Mr. Divković. Dear colleagues, we have an important proposal ahead of us. I repeat, we are on the agenda, along with the proposal of the Club of Envoys of the Croats to the House of Peoples. I ask you to open a debate on the proposal Mr. Divković made about us. If that's what we need to discuss. If no one answers, come in, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u637	Ladies and gentlemen, I think every proposal, every initiative is welcome and, of course, every initiative needs to be made known. It would be good for us to discuss the initiatives we have received from official state authorities, so the Council of Ministers. There's this initiative that's been protocold, which I delivered as a delegate and to see which initiative will get most of it, or the required majority, and to discuss the permanent electoral law. I'm scared, so I'm scared and I'm scared. Afterwards, I will take part in the discussion that the gymnastics that deals with political... in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including both homes, is not about to adopt a permanent electoral law, but about buying time, throwing fog in the eyes of representatives of the European Parliament and of the international 8 communities, and God forbid that we have spent the last year agreeing to the text of the permanent electoral law, today we would be dealing with a completely different legal matter. I wish this message, which I've heard, would convince me in the next 10 days, if we get into that phase that there really is an honest willingness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u638	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Anybody else might want it. Mr. Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u639	Mr. Chairman, guests from the Council of Ministers, fellow delegates. I had an accident to monitor the entire session of the Council of Representatives yesterday and to make sure, unfortunately, that the stubborn had again won his mind. Upgrade about who was wrong in the procedure and who wasn't. She won, the sincere wish of us representatives of certain political progressive options and the wish of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are convinced to adopt the most important law after the Constitution and thus show the different face of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the world's public has so far had the opportunity to watch. Unfortunately, that opportunity has been missed. Here we now have a legal and legitimate proposal from the Council of Ministers, which is complemented by amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the Lower House and the Council of Ministers, by a decision by a letter that we have all accepted at a session of 20 June and the amendment as its own and installed them in the transitional and final provisions of the proposal for a law which has provided us with a statement. We also received on the table the initiative of delegates Mr Nikola Špirić, who is identical with the Council of Ministers' proposal to declare the law under Rule 100 of the Doman of the People's Rules of Procedure. Of course, I have no objection to the initiative presented by Mr. Divković on behalf of the Croatian People's Club of Delegates, but I also doubt that this is also on the line of attempts to remove responsibility from some who are, who are trying in some way to justify and find justification for why this law was not passed yesterday in the House of Representatives. I must say that I am most disappointed by the position of the SDP, a progressive party that is similar to the option I belong to, I belong to the Socialist Party and did not have the strength to rise above the int that was present yesterday and that, since it also gave the Chairmanial Council of Ministers, who is the Proposer. And that she has given the most significant number of officials in the Council of Ministers, who is also the legislator of this law, so that her delegates, or MPs in the Representative Council, did not support what he proposed, if you want their party chief. I think that this has shown to all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina that what is being done under pressure, and it is not a product of free will that people can work long enough, and yesterday it was shown to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the Alliance for Changes created under the pressure of the international community, and not by the will of all participants who make that alliance is unable to make the changes that we all want and that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina rightly expect, because after 6 years of the war, they must have the right to a better life. Unfortunately, all these declarative stories and the pledge to Europe and to enter Europe fell into the water yesterday before the fact that it is more important to preserve power than to provide a better existence for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why my distinction is greater and I would like our home today to vote as proposed by the Council of Ministers and to adopt this law in the proposal as given, under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u640	Thank you very much, Mr. Ilić. Mr. Spahić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u641	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, I would like first of all to say that we are in a situation where we have several suggestions on how to proceed and end this work. It would be quite correct to set ourselves up according to these suggestions and to clarify the situation before we continue to work. It's not right for us to talk about a lot of initiatives right now without having a clear view of what we want. We must declare ourselves according to our rules of procedure, the proposal of the Croatian Club in the House of the Peoples and determine whether we are going to break up and thus create an assumption that Mr Ivo Divković was talking about which he would not want to repeat. On the other hand, I would like to say that unless the chairman puts the proposal to the vote immediately, which came first and publicly. The other proposals, unfortunately, are not on the agenda, by the way, for something to be a proposal, must be formulated as a proposal, it must be followed by an authorised promoter. So, in the formal legal sense of the word, we now have one proposal. That's Mr. Ivo Divković's proposal on behalf of the Croatian Club. How much of the gentleman and his proposal that he has submitted today read and proposed it formally, besides standing on the table as information, I also believe that, following Mr Divković's proposal, Mr Špirić's proposal should also be made known. He is correct, if Mr Špirić is authorized by the Council of Ministers to represent him in this case. Since in this case we have a conflict of interest between the legislative and executive authorities, one legislator who has his own bill and whose proposal for a law on the agenda is set out in last session in the second reading. It has been established to remind you under the first floor of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposal for a second reading for today's session, that's what we got on the agenda, which we accepted by voting on the agenda. B. We have agreed to discuss Mr Špirić's proposal as an authorised promoter on his proposal for law in the second reading. Third proposal, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, as a proposal we don't have. It's one thing that this proposal is on the table, but as the House's proposing has not spoken to us, and he didn't officially tell the gentlemen, I suggest that it enters the agenda according to that and that principle, no matter what it is on the table. We need to know whether we have that attitude or not. In that case, I'd like to draw attention to the next fact. We voted on the agenda. We need to work on the agenda. So first, we should make a correct statement about the Council of Ministers' proposal in the second reading that we have concluded the debate at the previous session. We have amendments that have been accepted and discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We have amendments that have restored colleagues, almost everyone in this house, and said that there is hardly one MP from this upper house who has not spoken to renew his amendment to discuss this text that we have received. It would be incorrect for the delegates in the House of Peoples not to determine by their legitimate rights that, by respecting the procedure during the second reading, they delivered 48 hours before their amendment. Some who have passed, passed, some who have not been re-pronounced. We must respect the delegates. We must respect ourselves first. So, we adopted today's agenda in which we discuss in the second reading the Council of Ministers proposal with the amendments that we have made, whether on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, either subsequently, renewing amendments that have not passed there or giving new amendments, since that is the law and procedure and 10 Rules of Procedure. If the College violated this order of things and chaired and replaced the thesis and now put under the table all the amendments that the delegates gave and forgot that we are in the second reading of the Council of Ministers' proposal, we would be in a position to undo our own political will. I don't think any delegate would allow himself such luxury. That's the first one. And secondly, we have, after that statement, to see how this statement will go, if there is no statement on these proposals that we have received formally, first of all from Mr. Divković. Then we have a proposal from Mr. Nikola Špirić. Which is legitimate, to which there is no amendment to this moment. The Constitutional and Legal Commission considered it on two occasions. The home of the people considered it in the first reading and considered it today in a second reading. Therefore, the House of Nations has only matter ahead of it under the Rules of Procedure. We can't jump out of our own rules of procedure and jump into some proposals and proposition that don't concern our rules of procedure. You know that procedures and Rules of Procedure determine the elements of democracy in every society. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People determines the differences between the decisions in the House of People and the House of Representatives. Imagine the situation for us as the House of Peoples to propose amendments and stand behind them by the Council of Ministers and go to the House of Representatives and say in the House of Representatives - it doesn't matter what debate you had. Let's take the decisions and attitudes of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples, skip the phase and all the opinions that you had in the House of Representatives and we're going to this debate. In my opinion, the bottom line is, what you'd say is that we keep the dignity of the House of Peoples in which we act. The second thing is that relations between the Council of Ministers and two homes will be brought into line. How will we come to another solution, etc. And now something correct about the Council of Ministers. For this session, it was perfectly normal, regardless of the procedure that the chairman of the Council of Ministers later offered to the House of Representatives, and we will probably hear the information about whether it offers this official home, it was correct, if the example works...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u642	I can visit you, dear colleague, to discuss Mr. Divković's initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u643	Yes, it is, I want to do the initiative. So it was correct for us to have a reaction to all the amendments submitted by delegates in the House of Peoples. We, by the promoters of the Council of Ministers, have no reaction to our amendments, whether they were on the Constitutional and Legal Committee or not, they were delivered in time from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and from the House of Peoples by Mr Šimić, the Council of Ministers and the Proposer. That is why it seems to me that Mr. Divković's proposal is in dual function. First, to protect the interest of democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the interest of agreeing, to find a solution to reach the Electoral Law. We can't get to him by skipping procedure. I don't want to criticize my colleagues in the House of Representatives at all, and I don't want to make any political assessments about how the Alliance has set up here, a particular political party, who is similar and who is different. That's 11 debates that we can have... in principle, Mr. Ilić, that's your thing, but I don't argue that you can say that, but I have to say something quite clear, we in this alliance that you're calling on and saying that we're making some... etc. We're trying to protect the elemental dimension and the proposal that was offered here today for example. The suggestions that all our colleagues have made in the House of the People, to give proper attention to the Proposer. In this case, it's the Council of Ministers. Let's just say that this is an octopus twist and that we have changed political games, attitudes, relationships, relationships, though I don't believe it at all. Because if you look closely at the amendments of MPs in the House of Representatives and MPs in the House of Peoples, they completely deny that position. We in the Alliance of an individual party and each of us individually in any home to go, we made a consistent proposal. The fact that there has been no harmonisation in this process, do not let us evaluate the second home. We concentrate on one careful, smart, wise position Mr. Divković has offered. Let's not destroy the dignity of the House of Nations. That our own proposals and amendments to the Council of Ministers are asking us to answer that, because it is respect for ourselves. Second, when we get out of it, when we see what the grades are, what we've come up with, then we stand behind it and say, we, of course, don't have to stop one way or another today at this session. But it is my opinion that Mr. Divković's proposal builds a positive relationship between us. And if it is building a positive relationship, it should be supported simply because we are not deciding to join the Council of Europe today. That should be clear. The law that did not pass at the House of Representatives is in the procedure of the House of Peoples in its original form and has the opportunity to build these relations, if we really want to do well first of all democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we're just going to do this pro-form, to do another day of torture for the theatre, to say all our views, to mention the Constitutional Ustavnu-komisi, the Constitutional Court, to open all the questions, all the amendments, it's not in any way to say productively from the point of view of the basic idea given by Mr. Divković. Since the discussion of his proposal is a proposal that protects dignity, procedure and gives us a chance to seriously consider all the relationships we're building. And once and for all, let us say that when a delegate, when one MP gives one amendment to the proposer, has to him that whoever it is, it was an MP, as I was in the resolution or in the law, every word of yours has been carefully measured and answered. That's why we made a smooth deal under point 1. Not because we were politically outwitted. We have agreed, we have made it clear politically that a procedure must be followed in this country. The delegate plays a fundamental role in defending the interests of the political why he is here and as an MP and as a delegate. No, it can't. There's nowhere in the world to offer an amendment, and if someone was behind it and said, "Here, you know, I've been playing for 48 hours, I'd take it back now." What kind of policy is that, gentlemen? And that's why Mr. Divkovic's proposal is wise, because he allows us to open the debate finally between ourselves. To create conditions, to build some relationships. We can't compete. The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. We simply have to respect our own authority. Lower and upper home in the same cabular. And do not mind the lower home anything, which retains the dignity of the upper home because the protection would say what is called the most national interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is democracy, it is freedom for people, the right to determine against what is called a political decision crucial in every country. Don't tell the story of Europe right now and now we want to torture ourselves and prove who's more or less. It is indisputable that there is no one in this country who can put a barrier to entering European integration. But it is quite clear that there are many 12 people who put barriers to dialogue between us. You don't have any of what we're going to do about the Council of Ministers. We're looking for an exit that's rational. So, please, I suggest that we plead very correctly or on Mr. Divković's proposal, and if we say so correctly, we will see if there are any conditions for other proposals, because he was brought here by one club. We must protect identity and integrity as you would say, as Divković said carefully. He wasn't asking for a break from HDZ. He was asking for a wrestling club in the House of Peoples. So different political parties, which is very indicative and good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u644	Thank you. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u645	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished guests, fellow delegates, I will not do it in such large words as Mr Spahić, I will try to simplify a little, to simplify the position we are in. It is clear that we have received some suggestions in preparation for this session. We received a proposal for an election law from Bosnia and Herzegovina 21.6, which was signed by the chairman, Božidar Matić, in which he wants us to plead in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Did we win or not? Mr Spahić says we didn't, it seems to me that we did, because I have it, in the regular procedure of the Home Secretary, I received that proposal with the law. I also received a proposal from Vice-President Špirić with the same proposal, i.e. another member, which is to be discussed under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We need to get to the bottom of this first. After that, we can discuss a session interruption. After that, once we enter the regular procedure, so when we enter the amendment procedure, we can discuss the interruption, because the alignment means some kind of amendment. And amendments include regular procedures, means regular procedures, not the procedure under Article 100. Therefore, a first statement per article 100 is necessary, and then a statement on Mr. Divković's proposal, which I respect and appreciate, and I think it is a correct proposal. But beware that we have even entered into an amendment debate, we need to be clear whether we are in an emergency procedure or not. Or let's say there's no such thing as these. Here I am, and not to go into it, to get Mr Špirić and someone outside the Council of Ministers, of course, and to say that the Council of Ministers is withdrawing its proposal. Here we had a session this morning then and then, in so many hours we made a decision to withdraw the proposal. Or Mr. Špirić comes out and says, "Here I've decided to withdraw my proposal." In this variant we open up a space for resolution, for deciding on this proposal. I ask you to really respect here some order of events and not to turn this gathering into yesterday, so that we don't talk about the Constitution, yesterday there were many stories about the Constitution, about I don't even know about this, here is a clean and clear position. If we open up a space for amendments or something, it depends on how we vote on these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u646	13 Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Tokić, then Mr. Zubak, then Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u647	The chairman and gentlemen of the envoys, delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are here to discuss the issue of the proposed postponement of this agenda to get time for alignment. I have an understanding of the skepticism that the alignment in about 10 days may not yield results, as one of the previous debaters said, but I'm surprised that someone believes that, past the alignment of the day, without that minimum harmonisation today, the election law will be passed. So long before we adopted the agenda in a stenogram that reads to Mr. Novaković under a) The Council of Ministers' proposal, second reading. ( b) The proposal for a bill by Nikola Špirić, second reading and under c) could possibly be new initiatives in a way that gives the initiative one who proposes the law and not someone on behalf of the legislator. The attempt to leave an impression here today that some hit who is going to pass the law as others do not, is a cheap attempt, because already under reading (a) when reading, Mr. Novaković will be, allow me to foresee being energetically against the Council of Ministers' law, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will be supplemented by amendments to the Legislative Commission of the High House and represents an integral text on which this House can and should be made known. So, for the public's sake, let's clear up what we're talking about. We are talking about this, gentlemen, whether, as far as the Council of Europe is concerned, we cannot meet the condition set out to adopt the Election Law by 22nd, simply because the House of Representatives has rejected the law after all procedures. We can do something else. We can make an impression and preparedness here and today show by dialogue that we are ready to agree and in some subsequent period as soon as possible as possible as the top priority of this House and Parliament's Assembly to adopt the Election Law. It is a very important message for the Council of Europe. It's a very important message. A much better message than that to happen as possible that the Council of Ministers' law with the Constitutional and Legal Commission doesn't get any support here today. I wouldn't want to. He would not want Nikola Špirić's law not to receive support and would not want any new initiatives to be supported and in a certain way to temporarily exclude the electoral procedure. The approach, mentioned here is the Social Democratic Party, the SDP approach said very clearly. The SDP has been committed to entering into the basic text all procedures on which political parties agree. All procedures. Those who do not have the consent of the parliamentary majority's political parties to define transitional provisions as solutions, the current solutions that will apply until otherwise agreed. It was an SDP approach, Mr. Ilić, and I think that approach is good and only possible. The story of how the SDS with the SPRS allegedly wants to go to Europe, and the SDP won't tell it a cheap story, Mr. Ilić, and to be perfectly clear, we're not hiding behind anything. We will not in the basic text, therefore, if not for any confusion now, we will not raise our hand that in the basic text of the Electoral Law the provisions that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. That's why we won't raise our hand. And that's why we're a progressive political force. We didn't want that last year, until there was a Constitutional Court decision, while everyone else interpreted the preamble to the BiH Constitution. We didn't want it then because we knew the Constitutional Court decision was coming, and we're not going to do it now. Let's be perfectly clear about the position. We can go to another concept. A groundless debate about who's to blame for not adopting the House of 14 nations today. I'd like to interrupt the session, open a dialogue and try to come up with a solution, because I don't think the solution is far. But if someone who's imperative comes today to swing any flag as it's progressive, and the other one won't get anything, because it'll turn out very quickly that we don't have what we want in common. I'm very proud that it's the biggest part and that the Alliance, so the Alliance for Change has shown unity. There's been a lot of talk here about the Alijansa. The Alliance for Change has shown unity in the Electoral Law. It showed unity. The fact that, those who said they would support changes voted with SDS and HDZ, that is a question that I, certainly and in the Alliance, should open up, but I would like to interrupt that debate, if we will, with what is quite clear here – the Rules of Procedure must be respected. If we cross, if we don't accept a suggestion to agree and postpone the first point and the first law we're going to discuss is the law of this house. Because I will not allow as a member of the College anyone to dissuade the efforts of all of you, Mr. Ilić and you, Mr. Novaković and you, Rodić, all of you who participated in the procedure and came to the law of this house which is this, for the sake of a plea. We are ahead of a plea under the law that this House led by the Council of Ministers to the final proposal. Thank you. So let me be clear, I'm getting a hold of the session and one chance to get past the camera, and if there's nothing we can do about it very clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u648	Thank you very much. I'm warning you, we still have a pretty good announcement. We won't stop you, but I remind you that we are actually discussing the initiative of the Croatian People's Club in this home. Mr. Zubak. I'm sorry, there's a replica. I forgot. Excuse me Minister, Mr. Ilić, and Novaković also asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u649	I don't think it would be a good idea to go into polemics and replicas. I'm a very reasonable and reasonable man, Mr. Tokić. And I have learned by working so far as a representative in many bodies that compromise is a fundamental tool of political agreement. I realized that what was offered as an official proposal and what we accepted in the first reading, that that was what we came up with at that point as a compromise. And why we didn't accept it now, and then in the next step, we went on to agreeing. Well, it's not like the Electoral Law and the Constitution are even, but of course he knows how to change and how to process something that is for all time. Everything that we agree here and decide as representatives of the people by procedure can be changed. I know there is now the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and stop the entity. When they change according to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, then I will accept that, and on that basis we will change everything else. But let's not prejudge things. And about who's with who and how it all turned out yesterday. Please, and don't, I have my own right to my impression and I said that the SDP was the most disappointed because I trusted that party because it's a close option that I represent and I think our parties are progressive. Yesterday, I got the impression that this party didn't show it, and that's my impression, my own vision. So it doesn't have to be true.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u650	Thank you. Novaković's replica, then Tokić's replica. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u651	I'd just ask the gentlemen to listen to each other when we talk, so when we come out that when we want to deny someone or tell him otherwise, then we really say what he said, not what he thought and what we think he meant. Gentlemen, I have not mentioned in a single word how we will plead to the law and what law. I have made it quite clear that we need to make a statement whether we are going to have an emergency procedure or not. Because that's what we have as a suggestion. I didn't dispute that after that we'd come forward with a motion to interrupt the session. So, I did not dispute at all anyone's desire to interrupt in the later part of the session and allow for reconciliation. But I made it clear that this would allow it cannot be debated by an emergency procedure, because an emergency procedure implies that there are no amendments. So there's no alignment. So we have to refuse an emergency procedure, do we have a proposal like that? Now somebody's pushing me some other words. I did not perform here as a member of the SDS, this complex Mr. Tokić has is his problem, as far as the SDS is concerned, I performed here as a delegate to the Serb people delegated from the National Assembly, and I expressed the position of the Serbian People's Club and I ask that it be seen that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u652	Thank you very much. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u653	I would like to use the term not to change the entity's constitution, but to bring the constitution into line with the BiH Constitution. There's no change. So, the Constitutional Court said the provisions of the entity's constitution are against the constitutional. So it's not about change. Now whether it's going to change or not. Unless it does so in the Assembly, the Constitutional Court will suspend the entity's constitution. Let's be perfectly clear. It's not like we're gonna change now and when we're gonna change. These provisions cannot enter into the text of the Electoral Law and that is the position of the group and the political option to which I belong. I am not the first man to mention the parties here, and my replica refers to a very clearly expressed view of the party I belong to within, of course, the Bosniak people whose name I am sitting in the College of the House of Peoples. As far as this clarity is concerned, I am pleased that Mr. President of the Club of Serbian Delegates has repeated it. I was just about to deny it. We passed the law, we adopted the agenda, under a) a second reading of the Council of Ministers' law, which has nothing to do with the possible initiative that some new law proposed by the Council of Ministers goes according to an urgent procedure. So it doesn't matter. ( b) Mr. Nikola Špirić's law would go under, second reading and plea. So I listened very carefully to you and exactly what you just said I wanted to deny it, but here I think we've been able to clear ourselves up. There is, therefore, no possibility of now passing the established agenda, which you have voted for and the agenda of the Council of Ministers' law on an urgent procedure before a. and b. Businessly very clearly and can be done. As for all the other troubles, who's with whom and what's what. I just wanted to say the SDP and other political parties in the Alliance showed unity yesterday and I believe today will show a high degree of responsibility for the proposal Mr. Divković made. We have predetermined and clearly defined who we are with. We are pleased that some other parties have supported such an approach. We regret that those parties who have promised to support the Alijansa for Change have not done this in procedure 16 of the election law, and for the end again, do not look at the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives, which has no authority here, but look at your own Constitutional and Legal Commission. It's probably the difference between the chairman and the text of the law that happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u654	I thank you, Minister Zubak.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u655	I'll be brief. Yesterday, at a meeting of the House of Representatives, I see here today that a number of MPs are not sufficiently informed, or does not know why the Council of Ministers acted. You all know that we as the Council of Ministers have established a bill that contained two alternatives. The draft law was both in this and the House of Representatives of the Foundations for Discussion. During the first reading, both in one home and in another, an eye was collected, according to our information, over a hundred amendments. The conclusions of the morning we received information, as the Council of Ministers, that there is a high degree of consent in both parliamentary homes, that on the basis of the amendments, which was adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House, the law can be adopted, that on this basis the bill which passed both homes, without great problems, has been suggested to us to facilitate the work of one and another home, that such, if we accept these amendments, as our own that we go with the Bill proposal and that we propose that this House goes according to Article 100, respectively, and Article 105 of the House of Representatives. We have done so on the basis of such information. I'm telling you this so you'll be fully informed about what this is all about. Unfortunately, it seems that we as the Council of Ministers have been manipulated, because yesterday, we are saying that this agreement is not what it is for us. There, so much so that you would be fully informed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u656	I thank Minister Zubk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u657	I give my word to the envoy, Ilija Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u658	First of all, Mr. Minister Zubak and members of the Council of Ministers, this home, and I hope no one in BiH has any intention, and I am convinced or can manipulate the Council of Ministers. Our envoys are well informed of the way the Council of Ministers has referred the law to the procedure and I thank you for being here to defend this law and to help us discuss it. I will, dear colleagues, tell you behind this pay phone, and not where I'm sitting to understand that when you talk about an initiative that is very clear and simple in business, and that is Mr. Divković's initiative with an explanation that is valid, which we can take a transcript and see, therefore, that when you talk about this initiative, you take the opportunity to say everything you have to say about your political views and your agenda overall. We are all fully aware that this is not about that, so I want to ask you very collegiately 17 to concentrate at this stage on this initiative, that we will pass or we can avoid discussing the electoral law. I also need to say this, that at this stage of the work of the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, this is one of the most important issues in this session. We're all aware of that. I will now, unusually, as chairman, but here I am taking part in the debate to define Mr. Divković's initiative, for very uniform reasons. We, today, cannot achieve an important qualification, no matter how we discuss the electoral law. By adopting him or not by adopting BiH, the law today is not available, nor can it be adopted in the coming days. It is my assessment that, if we accept the initiative and work a few days to agree, in political terms, I would say to the conflict, I would say, on the most important act after the Constitution in BiH, that we will then achieve quality. Today it's logical that we've met and we want to work, but I'm afraid this isn't irony right now, it can be understood, that in the heat of work, we don't do any more harm than good. I am speaking to you in a very simple collegiate dictionary, very easily I can see it as well as many of us with strong political messages, with strong patriotic messages, but please let's be rational. I'll give my colleagues four more debaters have answered. I'll have them dissipate, four of our MPs, and then I'd like to make a statement about Mr. Divković's initiative and see what we do next. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Džaferović now.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u659	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I try not to fall in line with those who complicate things behind this pay phone. This is just to respond a little bit to your allegations, Mr. Chairman, but this opportunity seems to me that there are needs, therefore, that there is need and public service, and it seems to me that for all of us here, there are some things to repeat. It seems to me that some of the elements that were mentioned in today's debate concern both the essences and procedures are unknown, or not mentioned here. The law, the Electoral Law of the Council of Ministers, of course, came in one text to this parliament and went to two homes in two constitutional and legal committees. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives and the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. Everything that has been done at the House of Representatives so far has been done, based on the text that came from the Council of Ministers and on amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives. So far, no one has spoken or spoken, and it seems to me that this is unknown to the public, the views taken by the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this home. This home, which is required to follow the instructions of its constitutional first commission. Instead of today, when we came to the second reading, as proposed by the law, we are discussing the Bill Proposal which came from the Council of Ministers and which has been amended, amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Committee of this House, we therefore have efforts to place ourselves before this House under the urgent procedure of the text of the bill, which has been drawn up by the amendments to the Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, it is absurd for me. This House can discuss in a second reading, and this is today's adopted agenda only on the text, which has arrived from the Council of Ministers and which has been processed by the Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House. You know what the point is that nobody's talking about. The point is that the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the text of the Election Law has incorporated amendments, which remove discrimination in the selection of 18 members of the Presidency and members, or delegates in the House of Peoples of the State Parliament, which have incorporated the principle of representation in power, according to the 1991 census, except in cases where the Constitution of BiH and the Constitution of ethnicity is prescribed parity representation and which has adequately regulated the question so-called "the Constitution of BiH". P2 forms. What she tried to do with her decision to contribute to the elimination of the consequences of ethnic cleansing, as she said that persons using other people's property cannot vote in the municipality in which the property is located, or register for those municipalities, but for municipalities according to the 1991 census. She wanted to contribute, therefore, to the implementation of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, to encourage and implement property laws and, naturally, to at least partially undo the consequences of ethnic cleansing. That's the problem, gentlemen, and that's why he's running away from the text of this law today and he's trying to go to the text completed by the Constitutional First Commission of the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman, we have this text in front of us. So I've now said the point of seeing what these differences are. I support this text, which we have in the House with amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Domitions of this House. We can talk about, we can interrupt the session today, because of these things that you spoke about, Mr. Chairman, but, of course, the end of the agenda that we are now at, and when it continues, the follow-up to that part of the agenda at which we interrupted the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u660	Thank you. It's just understandable things, and there's no other way. Wrong quote, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u661	It has been mentioned here many times that we are discussing some law, which we have given amendments to. Gentlemen, the Council of Ministers delivered the House of 21.6. Proposed law. By submitting this bill, there is no longer a first draft of the Council of Ministers' law. I guess that's clear. Therefore, there is not a single long law of the Council of Ministers other than that delivered on 21.6. Let the Council of Ministers withdraw the law delivered to 21.6 and have former Council of Ministers law. If he pulls it and says it's him again. Until then, the Council of Ministers cannot have two laws, have two proposals. Let's not make this a joke. This is a serious institution, a serious home. I ask the Council of Ministers not to allow their work to be discussed in this way. People have come forward with suggestions. I'm asking this is the only proposal we have right now. Because the first one, by bringing this, was put out of force.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u662	I remind you of your esteemed colleagues, I'm using from here now on. I remind you of what we are discussing and I pray that they are not used, indeed hard words, which are not appropriate. We're discussing Mr. Divković's initiative. I think Mr. Jusuforin's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u663	19 Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the envoys, delegates, or ministers, I have no intention of talking today about the amendments made by the Party for BiH. She's made a lot of these amendments. A large number of them were adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the People's House, about which counterpart Džaferović had just spoken about what she had done and should be said that she had made a major step, and that objectively the Council of Ministers, here we heard an explanation, absolutely did not find it appropriate to take into account such one proposal that meant, a major step towards the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. However, I have no intention of talking about this today, since the procedure has been explained. For us, the only relevant proposal, when it comes to the agenda, is then a law offered by the Council of Ministers and a proposal for amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which certainly forms an integral part of that law. But here today, it is also about one initiative. I tried to determine myself, in such a position, taking care of some new circumstances from yesterday to today. What am I talking about? I mention, we were all in a situation here all day, although we weren't actively involved, because it was a House of Representatives, but we were following the situation. We know what the score was. I must say that a group of political parties, to which my party belongs, means, first of all, the Party for BiH had its position, its opinion, its views, that a group of political parties, meaning the Alliance and everything that happened yesterday, is known what happened, that the decision is what it is and that absolutely means, my views are like that. However, here I am trying to rationally determine myself in this emerging situation with regard to the Croatian People's Club. Let's start by assuming, and I don't want to doubt her that everyone here, we all have a firm intention, and I'm convinced that election law needs to be passed, so that's a starting assumption. But I think we need to assess what reality is. That our starting positions are different. I'm sure whatever analysis we do, and it seems to me that there have been speeches here, from some envoys, that today we are not in a situation to come to an election law decision. It's a pure reality. We can have fun, but that's one truth. I want to believe, and that's why I'm inclined to accept this initiative, that the time ahead, and that and all those exhausting debates that took place yesterday at the House of Representatives, give us, perhaps, the right to have a lack of time, so to speak, try through some kind of creative, so to say the spirit we try at least some step to achieve. I don't want to doubt in advance that this time ahead means, if this session is delayed, it won't give us a positive result. Let's believe that, for these reasons, means, taking care of all the realities, because we can stay all day and night and night, but objectively, these are our starting positions that, we're going to find a final solution, or possibly have another solution, I'm already in a certain way, understanding these realities, approaching the initiative that's been offered, that it will give us a chance and time, and if, eventually, someone doesn't accept, I accept another solution. Since the Constitutional and Legal Commission has accepted a lot of amendments, it has accepted a lot of amendments from the Party for BiH, it has also refused, if you want to cut it short, 20 to put it on the agenda and to vote and that we will also have, not quite to the end, good but much better than proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u664	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u665	Dear colleagues, chairman, I'm talking about a proposal from a club representative to terminate the session. Before that, I would draw attention, that it is a division of parties to progressive and regressive... because it involves a totalitarian mind that has ambitions to judge who is regressive and who is regressive. That's one thing. It's another thing. Mr. Divković said quite well that it took us ten days to agree on the law and that we needed to postpone this for about 8-10 days to agree. Unfortunately, those 8 or 10 days that were very important, very necessary and useful and could lead to an agreement within the deadline, which they promised the public, spent, in a way that just as a member of your party, Mr Divković, a member of the Tokic College, took the delegation to Kuwait. So, that time was, the time to get intensely consulted, to get an intensive agreement, because in that case, in front of citizens today, we would not have such deep fundamental misunderstandings on the elementary issues of the Posovnik, the procedure, the relations of the Council of Ministers, the roles of the Council of Ministers, the roles of the College, the Rules of Procedure, the commission phase of the law, the plenary phases of the law, etc. Now, for the sake of respecting that public, I'm just going to remind you briefly. The moment the commission stage and the reading phase both in the House of Peoples takes place, the role of the promoter is reduced to bringing to the Constitutional and Legal Commission or the competent commission and defends the position. The role of the promoter is thus exhausted. The Rules of Procedure are such and it is difficult to find a foothold in Psolovnik that the Council of Ministers, of the proposings in the middle of the procedure, which is under way in the House of Peoples, withdraws or does not withdraw the proposal. It's just like that. The Rules of Procedure are like this and it must be kept in mind. There's no other way to get out of this situation of respect, except respect for procedure. But we didn't promise the public, or those who promised, that they didn't promise decorations about procedures in parliament. They promised to change. They promised to pass the law. They promised respect for human rights, equality of citizens, respect for the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality. They promised a platform on which to make changes, promised results. Citizens expect, with the first, results. Citizens expect with the right to respect by 22. Why isn't the deadline respected? Citizens expect to get better, and I think Mr. Tokić should make it clear, which parties said so and failed to cheat. Which parties promised to support the Alijansa, so they cheated. When the Council of Ministers was elected, when Mr Tokić was elected, Špirić. I didn't see anyone cheat. It was very unanimous. All positions when they were chosen were very complex. No one cheated. Whether this is a state of deception in significant laws for BiH and how long it will take and what parties it is, I think the public deserves to know, and I suggest, therefore, that any possible compromise is sought and that a solution is found, but I think that they should and answer to those who have spent their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u666	21 It would be good if we didn’t cause replicas, here’s a replica of Tokić. I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u667	Nothing, I'd just ask Mr. Genjac if he really didn't present his personal frustrations from the session to the session. If that's so important, I can let Halida have you sit there and we can determine that, however, you're going to some delegation, because I see that these are your main preoccupations. Points of the agenda are changed, and Mr Genjac only has that personal frustration constantly related to the post of deputy chairman of the Bosniak people's order and some place in the delegation. Halid, I think we can handle this so we don't burden this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u668	Mr. Genjac Replica will discuss Mr. Špirić, and then we will. Spahić argued. After the vote, my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u669	As for travel in Parliament's Parliament's documentation, it can be found that in four years, I have twice held a House of Representatives' presidency about 60 calls for travel abroad. I took two calls at most, because I thought there was more important work to do. So it's not about the trip. Indeed, I believe that five days before June 22nd, which was the deadline for the adoption of the Election Law, the College had far more important and significant work than the road and the answer to one call, which was sent six months ago. I really think so. Thank you, fellow Tokić, for offering me this position. I still think he should stay in this position to show how much he can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u670	Mr. Špirić. He used to ask for Špirić. I know because I'm sitting here. Of course she's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u671	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, distinguished guests, I think we're slowly bringing the discussion to an end and we're likely to approach a statement of various initiatives. What I'm saying is, it's really not good to divide parties into progressive and regressive, that it's not good to say that vital national interest is democracy, while the people are loud and getting closer to saying that they see politics and politicians in BiH. We have developed democracy and every day more and more hungry people and citizens in BiH and I think that every day their going out on the street and warning that they are on the edge of existence, does not say that democracy is their ultimate interest, but a naked struggle for survival. I must also say that the College did not travel and did not deal with tourism. I think it's useful for people to promote BiH in the world wherever they can. There are even signs that Nikola Špirić was in Paris on the cost of BiH citizens. I want to disappoint journalists who are predicting and not writing based on the fact that the College has made a decision that Nikola Špirić travels. I felt that the Electoral Law was a hindrance to travel, 22 I stayed and patiently followed the two days of the House of Representatives meeting, held talks with different political options and made a concrete contribution to the permanent election law. That's why it would be good if the editorials that write lies and lies at least got the strength to deny them and so much for my trip to Paris. It is a wonderful city in which it is nice to go, but Nikola Špirić did not travel to Paris at neither the cost of citizens nor the cost of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I would also like to say that what are the two homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, for which I have asked to vote, do not deserve mistrust. It is not worth it by academic Mr Božidar Matić, whose even professional career political hostuplers in BiH want to show that it is a man who is unable to bear the burden of the BiH Council of Ministers. Now I'm going to say what I'm talking about, because I think it's important to point out, and you know my position when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers. It is not good to play different correspondence with the Council of Ministers when the policy option is needed. I am therefore, regardless of my position in the work of the Council of Ministers, to take their initiative while they are in a relationship seriously considered. That's why I want to say what followed the political battle until the meeting of this house. First, at the Plenary session, we have a statement by the rapporteur for the Council of Europe, Mr Šurjan, who invited us and made it clear that the Election Law is one of the conditions, when we all welcomed it and all went to our camps and did everything possible to make it to the Election Law. We have a warning from our ambassador, Mr Mujezinović, who is asking us to do everything we can before this plenary session to reach a permanent electoral law, to inform him preferably in English, and that the news brings joy to those who want to see us in the Council of Europe. We have a letter from our ambassador, Mr. Gaon, who also begs us, as he informs us that there is a fantastic mood in the Council of Europe to see us. We have a memo from the chairman of the Council of Minister Božidar Matić, who some have deceived and told him that the work of the High Consensus in both homes requires an emergency session under Article 105. Council of Representatives and under Article 100. The people's homes to be made naive today, as if it were written by some lame type in BiH, not academic Matić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. You also have a letter from delegate Nikola Špirić, who supports the Council of Ministers' initiative, you have a memo that came from the head of the Office, or the cabinet of the chairmanship of the Presidency, in which the Bureau is concerned about the course of the debate at the Council of Representatives, considering the possibility of merely offering the Election Law and of this possibility has dropped. You have a letter, which, in my view, has helped many retterate from compromises, reportedly Branislav Milošević, who warns and says. "The BiH procedure, which has lasted since 1994, repeats itself in Howell's words, so one of the important people in the Council of Europe, is a permanent dilemma that occurs in the case of other countries. Should it wait for one country to meet all the conditions set, so that it is accepted into the Council of Europe or should be accepted and helped as an equal member of the Council of Europe to fulfil its remaining obligations, which has created space in some who are against the Election Law, that they think that the Election Law is not a condition and that BiH will be accepted in September as a permanent member of the Council of Europe, without this obligation, which is indicated in the second text and is said to Petrič the High Representative last year, I repeat a sentence or a decisive word on making a decision, the political committee on the reception of BiH, in addition to the rapporteur's opinion, will have the position of High Representative Volgang Petrić, who last year opposed BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. I must also say that 23 of these last 15 days have been a political struggle against the High Representative in BiH and that many have been glad that the mandate of the High Representative will not be extended for a year and, unfortunately, here it is only for a day or fortunately referred. I would like to say publicly that Mr. Petrić's Office of High Representative has made a very strong contribution to BiH's development, and if I have commented on certain decisions and I may not have liked them personally, and I think it is not good to undermine the authority or weaken the authority of the High Representative, in the way that certain political options, in recent days, have wanted to see it. That is why I would like to express my satisfaction, which has been extended to Mr. High Representative for another year, and we will see whether those who are asking for further alignment are ready to agree to compromises, which will be called by the Office of the High Representative and I hope the High Representative himself. In that sense, I'm willing to make a full contribution. That's why I think that from the RS, delegates from the RS who sometimes talk to me as some group that's against or for, it doesn't matter. There's no reason to be against alignment. We have no reason to give time 10-15-20 days, if they are sincere desires to compromise on this election law. We'll give that pleasure to all of us. There's no problem in us supporting the break you're looking for, but I'm afraid, after all this I've read, it's a line of looking for compromise, but a line of satisfaction in a sentence that says this isn't going to be a condition. But I must tell you, as you gentlemen of the Federation, no matter which party any party belongs to the Alijansa or outside the Alliance, I do not share, you are not prepared to compromise. It is hard to expect that RS delegates will also take part in the next alignment, in fact by passing an Electoral Law, which does not cover the interests of RS within BiH. So it would be good if we had spent this time, these ten days, instead of slaved for different memos, in our cabinets, in each other's conversations, and in mutual agreement. Unfortunately, I was here. I have to tell you that no one invited me to an agreement. No Niko asked me what I was thinking. They have other offices to discuss, where it is decided, where it tries to dictate to Parliament what it will do. That's just not good. I remain in the mood and delegates from the RS, to talk and to work towards finding and passing a permanent electoral law, but it is not good to dissuade the initiatives of the authorities in which we participated, it is not good to look for a mistake outside of us. It's not good to lecture the international community, because it's up to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u672	Thank you very much. Now we have opportunities like this. You know that today is Friday and that we are obliged to provide time for prayer to the Musliman who want it. This is the time when we have to interrupt the session in a few minutes. We have the opportunity to break up and find ourselves in three now to plead on Mr. Divković's initiative or to plead now, because we have two applications for discussion, Mr. Spahić and Rodić. If the gentlemen give up the discussion, we will now clarify this initiative and we will know what we are on, whether we continue or not. Do you agree with your colleagues that we vote right now? I didn't give you this kind of debate, nor did I give you my word, Mr. Spahić. Ask, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u673	24 before the discussion. Did Mr. Špirić, to ignore what Mr. Špirić said in the defence of the Council of Ministers and Mr. Matić and the praise of Mr. Petrič, I do, indeed, look forward to hearing such nice words from Mr. Špirić, for every man and citizen of BiH and the whole world. I'm asking. Is Mr. Špirić a proposal and can we approach the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u674	I beg you, see, it's ugly that the discussion of the delegates of another delegate who calls for compromise. Mr Spahić, this wasn't an empty story. From this story you could learn, and I could learn from your story. Only in this sense will we find a compromise in BiH. That way of talking, I can handle it, because I can carry even harder delegates than you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u675	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. So I realized that we would still vote for the initiative of the Croatian People's Club. Two minutes off. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u676	With regard to all these discussions and the Club of Delegates from the Serb people, due to the inability, the apparent inability to pass today's permanent electoral law, accepts Mr. Divković's proposal to interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u677	Thank you very much. I call on you to vote on the initiative of the Croatian People's Club in the House of the Peoples of BiH. Never mind, the first one's green. Who's in? I think it's unanimous, but just in case, is anyone against or abstention? One's against it. So, in this case, we interrupt the 6th session of the House of Peoples and we will continue it when the conditions are met. Thank you very much. The session is over at 1:00. 25 Dear colleagues, allow me to announce the beginning of the continuation of the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We, of course, welcome you all together, including representatives of international institutions in the first place and my distinguished colleagues, media representatives, and here we have started working on the agenda of the 6th session we have not completed. In the agenda, we still have unfinished the proposal for the election law of the Council of Ministers and Proposer Nikola Špirić, and we have answered the envoy's questions and ask questions and initiatives. You know that at the Croatian Club proposal, the Croatian People's Club was then delayed, the session was suspended, it was proposed to carry out the necessary new consultations in order to possibly come up with a solution for the adoption of the Election Law. Meanwhile, significant political initiatives have also taken place, to reach permanent arrangements, so my assessment that it made sense to wait for all these political and other movements and to continue the debate on the 6th session today. The College of the Peoples sat yesterday and fully looked at the existing situation with the 8th session that we will have when we conclude this session, so today too, and looked at the question of how the agenda of the 6th session should be completed. We have delivered to you the conclusion of the College so allow me, although you have all obtained it to read this conclusion – the College of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina proposes to the House of Peoples under Article 100, and in accordance with Article 131(1). The Rules of Procedure of the People's House adopt the following conclusion: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is withdrawing from the procedure a proposal for electoral laws, proposed by the Council of Ministers and delegate Nikola Špirić, which were held at the 6th session of the House of Peoples. Explanation. On the agenda of the 6th session of the House of Peoples, which began at work in 21.6.2001, proposals for the election law of the Council of Ministers and legislators, Nikola Špirić. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the People's House has adopted certain amendments to the text of the draft electoral law, which is proposed by the Council of Ministers. The debate on proposals for election laws has been held. 26 The Croatian People's Club has proposed that the 6th session of the House of Peoples be suspended in order to carry out further consultations and eventually achieve agreement resulting in the adoption of the Election Law. Most of the votes for one vote against the 6th session of the People's House were suspended until further consultations and consensus were carried out on the proposal of the Croatian People's Club. As the Council of Ministers has been consulted and agreed on, it has submitted a new text of the Electoral Law with a proposal to consider it as referred to in Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. In view of this, the College of the House of Nations believes that the proposals for election laws on the agenda of the 6th session of the House of Peoples should be withdrawn from the procedure, and suggests that the House of Peoples adopt the proposed conclusion. Here's me, with an apology with my throat, I suggest that, if there's any need, we discuss this conclusion and we make it clear. Is there anyone who would like to discuss it, or should we make a statement immediately? Mr. Genjac wants to discuss the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u679	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, distinguished guests, you know that we interrupted the session two months ago. The two months were two key months for working on the draft electoral law. At the same time, we had one text of the Election Law in the House of Peoples by the Council of Ministers complemented by amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and thus the proposal that became the property of this home. We also had a bill of electoral law by an MP from the House of Peoples. The session was suspended with an explanation that it would take 10 days to carry out the necessary consultations. I don't think it's answered enough to ask why this two-month extension has not been scheduled for this two-month period, and therefore, first of all, I ask the College to answer why two months have not been scheduled to continue the session, and those two months have been given an additional deadline to carry out activities on the drafting and adoption of the Election Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u680	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might want to ask or discuss the proposal for a conclusion? Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u681	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed conclusion is proposed to withdraw the House of Peoples from the procedure of the text of the Electoral Law, which contains the implemented Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionality of the people throughout the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and an absolutely or completely resolved issue of Form 27 P2. So I want the public to know what we're actually pulling today and what is proposed to withdraw from the procedure. We received a bill in this house two months ago, and the same proposal was also submitted to the House of Representatives, and then the Constitutional and Legal Commissions of the House and this House practically established different proposals. We, therefore, are today proposed to withdraw from the procedure the text of the draft law which has been practically established by the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House, which I repeat in myself, therefore contains the implemented, practically implemented Constitutional Court Decision on the Constitution of the people throughout the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the fully correct and fully resolved issue of pattern P2. That is why I will not vote to withdraw this text from the parliamentary procedure, because it is the text which I consider both as a man and as an MP and my political party responding, which is ultimately in the interest of all the citizens and peoples of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one thing. The other thing is the procedure itself. This is where Dom is proposed to withdraw from the legal procedure. Therefore, the suspension is required in the provision of Articles 100 and 131 of Article 1. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 100. The Rules of Procedure don't apply to this question. He is talking about an emergency parliamentary procedure in front of this house, and Article 131 concerns some outstanding issues that can be regulated by a special conclusion. If we are to talk about the withdrawal of the law, then in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, those who are the legislators of these laws, not the House itself, can withdraw the laws. The home can be declared about the law itself, it can decide to take the law off the agenda, or something like that, but about withdrawing from the procedure, I don't think they're in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u682	Thank you very much. It's all right. Here you go. Mr Nikola Špirić
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u683	Dear delegates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the esteemed guests, I would like to say that at its 6th session of 21.6, the House of Peoples made a right and too high decision when it interrupted the debate and that the opportunity for the parliamentary parties of both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to try, with the help of those who are in favour of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities, to agree a little distance between the positions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law. You know that the Council of Representatives adopted the Permanent Election Act on an urgent procedure at the request of the Council of Ministers. Today I want to say that I realized that the meeting of the People's House will be a holiday for Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we know why we are using the business opportunity to simply withdraw from this conclusion the electoral law procedure that could be the subject of long-term debates and that we would not be, I am sure in the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why it would be good, we have a letter from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which they withdraw from the procedure an earlier proposed request. I am ready in the interest of adopting therefore the Electoral Law to withdraw my own proposal, because I kept saying that I was ready to make a maximum contribution to making Bosnia and Herzegovina a permanent electoral law. So I ask you to take this conclusion as an opportunity to complete the 6th session and, fortunately, to open this country and its citizens a regular 8th session and reach a permanent electoral law. These aren't all ideal solutions. They may also drop out of the 28 Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, but we will make a much smaller mistake if we come (and adopt)....permanent electoral law, than if we open a debate on the proposals that were held at the 6th session. Therefore, I ask that today we show maximum willingness to adopt this conclusion, and essentially this conclusion has been agreed by the House of Peoples College of the Parliamentary Assembly proposal. It is the right of any delegate for or against, but I think the political mood is such that this conclusion will still be adopted and therefore I ask the chairman to put the conclusion to the statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u684	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u685	Fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I don't see any need for us to discuss this. The promoter made it clear in his letter that he had withdrawn the proposal. And I don't see what kind of conclusion we should be making about it right now. The promoter has withdrawn, there is no agenda. We have this one more point, and that's the delegate's questions and answers and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u686	Let's move on. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u687	Mr. Chairman, I was behind this pay phone the last time I was about three minutes ago, three minutes ago, and here I am, three minutes later, going out for the pay phone again. So in those three minutes, I just want to show the situation in perspective. I am, therefore, an MP after this previous discussion in those 3 minutes, only then will they receive a letter from the Council of Ministers, the subject of withdrawal from the procedure for reviewing the earlier proposal for the election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I came out just to say with how serious and respect he treats us as MPs when I am here for this time as I have explained to you, only then do they get this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u688	The word has the chairman, Mr. Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u689	Dear colleagues, dear friends, I really don't think there's a need for a big debate on the conclusion of the sixth session. I fully agree with my colleague, Mr. Špirić. The College has considered this to me from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, from the point of view of the Constitution, from the point of view of our country's interest and from the point of view of the current political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all know, but I will repeat to you that we, Bosnia and Herzegovina, can, among other things, lead on the principles of compromise. Don't blame me for repeating such a general place, but I need to discuss a few discussions here, people who know it too, or better than I do, but of course, from probative political interests and attitudes have different statements. I respect that very much. With that in mind, I just want to say that I agree that the past two most important months are 29 months. However, all months and all days are very crucial and important to us, and I think we should do this job today. As far as the procedure is concerned, the procedure has not been compromised by this conclusion, which I think is very carefully considered. The reference to Article 100, Mr. Džaferović, is to the extent that the conclusion of the sea would pass analoguely with legal acts would have to pass the commission procedure, and we also treat him as fast acts and therefore we also called for Article 100, and in Article 131, you saw that he gave such an opportunity. There's a new and second option under Article 133, but I'm not opening it right now, which is why I think it's all clear here and I'm really asking you once more collectively that, I'm going to now if no one answers this conclusion. Please, dr. A genius.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u690	I won't insist on the answer. I didn't get the answer, but I won't insist. So I asked why it wasn't scheduled for two months to resume the session? I got some answer that's a story, but you're not offering an answer. I will not insist on this question, but it is important to note from this answer that the College of this House, therefore Mr. Šimić, Mr. Tokić and Mr. Špirić, unanimously decided to propose a conclusion withdrawing from the procedure of the law, which was complemented by amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the House of Peoples and which contained provisions on constitutionality and certain principles which respect the eliminations of the P2 form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u691	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u692	The Honorable Chairman and fellow delegates I simply think that a little College has become involved in this, about this situation. In fact, we have here a perfectly clear case of, as pointed out by the Council of Ministers, which is being withdrawn by the Council of Ministers from the procedure of the Proposition of Election Law that we discussed. There is no need for discussion or further conclusions by the motionor, since there is no more of this proposal. So there's no proposal and there's no need to conclude. In my view, it was still necessary for Mr Špirić to withdraw his proposal, and there is no further proposal in the debate of the Election Law, and we have ended this agenda. There is really no need for any conclusion, no urgency, because we have nothing to discuss if the proposals are withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u693	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković is not exactly that kind of thing in the Rules of Procedure. I thank you for wanting to help in the procedure in which, which has passed the commission phase of these laws, they cannot withdraw, but the College can interpret the Rules of Procedure and has found the College a good solution. I invite you esteemed colleagues to make a statement about the conclusion of the College you have before you, and I have read it too. 30 Who is it to adopt the proposed conclusion? 13 for. Who's against it, please? Two against. No abstentions. I find that therefore the conclusion of the College of the House of Peoples has been adopted. So we finished the first point, or the first point of the sixth session, and now we're moving on to the second point. Ad.2. Answers to parliamentary questions and out-of-line initiatives and questions gospodin Špirić has received 2 answers to his questions. It's my duty to ask him if he's satisfied with the answers?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u694	Mr. Chairman, I'm getting an answer to both questions asked. It seems to me that what this home should conclude is that when delegates or MPs ask questions that are conditioned by a certain time-limit that it would be an obligation for the state authorities to provide answers in time. I think the best answer to my question has given time, not the authorities, the state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why it would be good in the future for the state authorities to show themselves in the face of issues that delegates or MPs are asking. That's my basic remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u695	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that we're going to try anyway to begin the 8th session at 12. Until then, we have time, if anyone wants to ask a question or start an initiative. Mr Spahić
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u696	Mr. Chairman, the guests, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers again, the European Integration Ministry, about co-chairing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Second Working Table for Economic Co-operation under the Stability Pact. I would like to have the opportunity, and I hope that the House of Peoples as well as the House of Representatives will receive information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the implementation of projects concerning the first, second and third working tables, especially when it comes to economic co-operation and projects that Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready to present before the Donorial Conference in Bucharest on 23 October this year. That's the first question. So, he would ask the chairman to invite the Council of Ministers and 31 European Integration Ministers to address this house officially at the next meeting with information and exposure. I think it's a step we must finally take. At the same time, I would like to underline another obligation by the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for more than a year to appoint an official co-ordinator for the Stability Pact in Bosnia and Herzegovina to do the same thing as other co-ordinators for the Stability Pact in countries impoled to the co-operation process in Southeast Europe. The second question concerns the requirement arising from the Commission's proposal for foreign policy and foreign trade adopted at the beginning of our work, while I was active in that commission, which is that the proposed candidates for diplomatic consular affairs, means the candidates for ambassadors of the obligations come forward before the komitet for Foreign Policy of the House of People and the Committee of the House of Representatives before they go to the destination they are assigned. And the third question is regarding the position of the House of Peoples and the statements of individual members of the House of Peoples' College in public on the occasion of various events. I would like to say quite precisely that I have noticed that we, outside the policy that has been established in the House of Peoples and outside of the Work Programme as well as beyond the behaviour that is appropriate to colleagues sitting in the House of Peoples as MPs, appear in the public like those who judge politics in Bosnia and Herzegovina and present themselves as, as if, to say mentors in political practice and life in Bosnia and Herzegovina very skillfully, replacing their positions with what is really their responsibility. I'd like to say what I mean by that. For example. the statements we heard from the representatives of the two colleges regarding the privileges of MPs, the delegates in the House of Peoples were truly amazing. That's the question. That's what this discussion of mine is about. It is amazing how luxuriously the representatives, MPs, the chairman, the co-chair of the public, are, for example, the work and working conditions of the House of People and the House of Representatives. This was related to privileges, personal incomes, etc. etc. I think it would be correct for the College to take the initiative to urgently establish a order of things that involves a state institution. There should be a subpar and an official's representative who will address the public in which they will express the common interests I am talking about. Also, information concerning the work and conditions of the work of MPs and delegates would be correct to transfer a transparent representative or secretary of the Joint Services, or to subpar when it is therefore authorised by the College of One or more, without competing in performances to its representatives of both colleges in evidence that the privileges of MPs should be increased or reduced and practically entertained throughout the summer by the public with data that are absolutely not accurate. Since it was not possible for me to react publicly to this, I would like representatives of public information funds to seek it, get accurate information about all the privileges that MPs and members of the college have to take off the agenda, because it is untasty in the end line to irritate the public with statements and so on. Quasisocial positions of individual members of the College which do not relate to the accuracy of the information that exists, which concerns these problems. That is, I mean one position that would really be correct if we finally had a subpar and had the public address, of course in one official way when it comes to relations in Parliament one and the other and the relationship between fellow Members and delegates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u697	32 Thank you. I will immediately offer an answer to this third question, and if Mr Spahić is not satisfied, I will ask him in writing, written in writing, because this is a very sensitive matter. In addition, he made it very layered and said even difusingly so that the answers might not be complete. First of all, I don't think it's correct to discuss here two colleges, but one college. So it's about the College of the House of Peoples, and I will only speak in that capacity and speak, and everything that the members of the College of the House of Representatives do or say, speak publicly as responsible people in high government functions. The College of the People's House is not dissonantly equal, nor does it come out in public, and every member of the College as a delegate in this house and as a public person has the right to express his opinion on his behalf. If that's what this is about, then we can't undermine it as a member of the College. As far as information on which Mr Spahić has insisted is concerned, these are the receipts and to say the social status of the representatives, whether they are professional or not, the public is fully open and fully known through the statement of this college and each of you, but also in professional services and competent institutions, and the information is not closed and I call on the media to take them very publicly and transparently. Comrade Spahić, if you are. Thank you very much. Any other initiatives? There's a Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u698	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to ask one question and I think I'll have an answer by the next session. At the 4th session of the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 23.5.2001, we adopted the Information on the Commission's work to discuss the status of naturalised persons after 6 April 1991 in Bosnia and Herzegovina with one conclusion that within 30 days, the Commission will submit a new report on the structure of naturalised citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's been almost four months since May to this date, and we don't even have oral or written information. I ask you to force those bodies that address the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are obliged to report that they respect the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I therefore hope that at least at the next session we will have this report in accordance with our conclusion. If there is no such report, I ask for an answer as to why the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not respect the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-22-0.u699	I thank my fellow Špirić. We'll insist on that conclusion. Anyone else want to ask a question? The ones who didn't come, we'll urinate. All right, we got it, but you didn't say it at the pay phone. So, questions from the 3rd session, we rush all questions that are not answered. Dear gentlemen, allow us to conclude the work of the 6th session and have the media and our guests and invite you all to this same place at 12 o'clock. Thank you very much.
