ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5420	Dear MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 17th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. In addition to the MPs, today's session was called: the chairman and members of the Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Council of Europe, the Observer mission... to BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy. Representatives of public information funds are also invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome all of you to the work of this high house. On the basis of the Service’s report, the House is attended by a sufficient number of representatives, meaning 33, so that the House can work and make decisions in full. The president of the home, Mr. Željko Mirjanić, is away today because of the disease. This session, called, was based, but before I said that one number of distinguished representatives justified the absence from today's session. These are distinguished representatives, gentlemen: Stokić Dušan and Spasojević Zoran. This session was convened, on the basis of Article 21(1)(a) of the Treaty, by a consensus of all chairpersons of the parliamentary clubs as well as the basis of Article 47(1) and (3) of the Treaty on European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Also, the consensus is agreed and the draft agenda, which you, I think, have won on the benches and which you are divided. So, compared to the previous agenda that you received, we have some additions, these are the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the property, which BiH received under the agreement on the issues of succession in the Banca for international alignments in Basel. Also, the change is that we included two reports in the agenda. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on the uniform text of the Personal Data Protection Act. This law has been agreed upon and I can say that this is where the consent has been reached and, if we go through this procedure today, which I think is technical, we will have the opportunity to have that law very quickly. 2 Also, the draft law on BiH associations and foundations. You have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the amendments to the House of Peoples, and this has been agreed and agreed, and if we pass this part of the plea today, we will have the possibility that this Proposal for a Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH will go to the publication and this law is also very important to us. I think those are all changes. I don't know if there's any need to read this agenda you got, and here I'll read it. 1. Journal of the 3rd plenary session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Agents' questions and answers; 3. Proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the property, which BiH received under the Agreement on Sucession Affairs in the Banca for International Alignment in Basel; 4. Proposed amendments and additions to the BiH institutions budget and international commitments for 2001. It's just like before in the first reading, which doesn't stop us from going any further; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institution Budget and International Obligations for 2001 - First Reading; 6. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the uniform text of the Personal Data Protection Act; 7. Report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the amendments of the People's House to the Proposal for a Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH; 8. The proposal for a conclusion, concerning the discussion of information on BiH institutions' activities in the fight against terrorism – the conclusions, I think, will win on the benches; 9. Discussing the document General Directions and Priorities for implementing BiH's foreign policy – it is a document that the Presidency is in the framework of foreign policy management; 10. Information on BiH's Stability Pact activities for South-Eastern Europe: (a) Activity Information on Co-ordination with the Stability Pact, (b) Information on implementation of the Project from the Rapid Start of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, 11. The basic concept of BiH's activities during the co-chairing of the Second Stability Pact for Southeast Europe; 12. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement on the Development Credit – Project for Trade and Transport in South-Eastern Europe between BiH and the International Association for Development, (b) Contract on financing between BiH and the European Investment Bank – project for the railways in BiH, (c) Treaty on loan – project for the reconstruction of the electricity system between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (d) Treaty on financing between the European Investment Bank and BiH – project for the reconstruction of the Electricity Suspension in BiH, (e) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of SR Germany on Financial Cooperation in 1999, (f) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of SR Germany on Financial Cooperation in 2000. 3 This is the agreed agenda, and this is the agenda, which should not be further taken into account. I'm obliged, before further notice, to say only a little that, perhaps today's session term turned out to be a little awkward and unfortunate. It wasn't intended to hold a session today. It was originally scheduled for the day before Thursday, but given that the House of Peoples had its session for two days, it was not technically possible for it to be maintained when it was planned, and that's why it was scheduled today, and I apologize to everyone, to whom it disrupts today's course, but that's why we agreed on an extended college, that we work expeditively, means that in this first morning part of the agenda we do by 15-12, means by 11:45, we give a break by 13 o'clock, and then we work in continuity from 13 to 16 and I hope, if we're expedient that we can finish this agenda today. So I say, if there's anyone here, please accept an apology, so I suggest we be expeditionive in this time, as I said by 11:45 from 13 to 16 and I think we can do it. So this is the proposed agenda. I call on whether there are any respected MPs, who want an amendment and an addition to the agenda. I suggest, if possible, Mr. brkati, and I also announce another session by the end of the year in the period from 13th to 20th of the year, so if something is not necessary today, please respect that at that next session. Your Honor, Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5421	Dear Presidency, Mr Belkić, gentlemen of Ministers and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I am a little surprised by the agenda I received on the table, because two days ago I suggested to Mr Avdić and Mr Mariofil Ljubić, Mr Mirjanić, I could not suggest it, because it was not possible to include in the agenda the point of the report from the Human Rights Commission's visit to BiH. We filed that report and you received that report 20 days ago and perhaps more. All MPs received that report, but we did not discuss it. I consider this report very important and very important, because of the Commission's proposal for measures and I felt that parliament should discuss it and, possibly, supplement it and stand behind those conclusions. I have to explain this because of the two conclusions that stand there in the proposal for measures, and I can tell you that the Commission for Human Rights is unanimous, so all 9 members of the Commission care about these proposals there are more of them, but I will draw two, because we have convinced ourselves on the ground, that the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality, which has not implemented the problem on the ground. That's what we in the field were convinced of, and we suggested that it be done as soon as possible. That is the Commission's position, and I think it should be Parliament's position as well. Our second proposal, which is there, I mean very significant and it's very important. The Dayton Agreement has the view that a return fund will be established at the National Bank of BiH. That fund has never been formed. We're on the ground convinced it's necessary, and I'll give you an example. In Kotor Varosh, for example. where we were and where there were representatives in both the government and the Srbin and the Bošnjak and the Hrvat, unanimous in that they have no idea, have no examinations of how donations are coming to Kotor Varosh municipality, which is unimaginable to me as a man, that the government doesn't know what's happening to her on the ground. The charges are for corruption all over the country and it is not possible to have order, if the government in the field does not know who is coming to it and with what intentions it is coming to. For these two reasons, just because of these two proposals, I think this Parliament should plead and stand by and present it in public. Because, unfortunately, reporting to the public about the important 4 things in Parliament here, it is not satisfactory for me, to be very gentle, and therefore I think that these things in Parliament should be problematic. So, my proposal is to add this item to the agenda: a report by the Human Rights Commission on a visit to BiH. It's the agenda, and now that I'm not looking again, I want to express my dissatisfaction, my dissatisfaction, the dissatisfaction of the SDA Club, because of the appointment of a session in a time that is completely wrong. So, I am sorry that Parliament's leadership, and for me, Parliament is the largest body in the country to take care of human rights, freedoms and its citizens. If this body, in this way, takes care of my right, that I have my duty on Friday, not as a member of this or that people, but as a musliman, I have my duty on Friday. You are demeaning me in this way, and you are challenging me and I am protesting this way of leading this House. That way you can't run this thing. I want to be a good MP, I want to be in the sessions regularly. In this way, you're making it impossible for me to be present at the session. We'll go at half 12 from here. We're not going at 15 to 12, we're going out at 12 and you gentlemen keep working without us. But if Parliament so sets an example. Parliament, as the largest body in the state, how then can I blame someone in a school in the village, whose tenth thing in the world is that what I value is that student being worthy of it. How can I blame them if it's not respected here? Thank you very much, and I ask you to continue to take care of my rights, the rights of all citizens in BiH and rights, if you want Bošnjak and to be more specific about the rights of musliman in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5422	I would like to thank Mr. Brk's esteemed representative. I thought it was quite correct what was said and now I'm saying it's correct. At the College, the first sentence that was was an apology and let's say we've been working since 11 as long as you say. We'll continue after the break, when we say we're working while we're at it. I don't believe anyone here is the target. And as for this proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, this question is included in the proposal for the next 18th session. I think it can please you as well as the Commission. That's a very serious question, but here I can say that this question means, scheduled for the next session in the time from 13 to 20.12. Is that correct? Do you agree? Is there anyone else for today's session, a change and an addition to the agenda? If there isn't, thank you. So that's the agenda, which is agreed and I suggest we move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of a convict with three. Plenary sessions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Just to remind you that the minutes from the 16th session of this House are not on the agenda, since you have not received it today. Gentlemen, you've received a report from the 3rd Plenary Session, if you remember it, whether it has any objections, but it can always be sent in writing if anyone has any objections. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Šarganović. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5423	Mr. Members of the Bureau, Mr. President of the Council of Ministers and, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Chairman, in this minutes, the discussion that I had at this joint plenary session, at this session, is not a conclusion, because I have proposed 13 conclusions in writing. Mr. Šimić led the session, so I would ask that it be completed, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5424	I thank Mr. Šarganović's representative. We can do it, but usually, we're just making a brief copy of the record, so very rarely the discussions are being built in, so there's a stenogram, but we can do this. So, it is necessary to correct this remark by the distinguished representative Mr. Šarganović, because he did not state that the honourable representative had discussed it, and he also gave the conclusions. Are there any other objections to the record? Honorable representative Mr. Halil Mehtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5425	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on the second item of the agenda, from last 16th session, on behalf of the Mixed Club of MPs, therefore, of the New Croatian Initiative, the Democratic Old People's Republic of pensioners and the Bosnian-Herzegovina Patriotic Party, I appeared on the resolution issue. But there's not one word about it that I went out here for a pay phone, so I'd like to ask the record that my discussion was on behalf of this club, the Mixed Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5426	Okay, but we're not adopting, as far as I know today, and we're just adopting the minutes from this plenary session, so it'll be kept in mind when we adopt the minutes from last session. 16th session, session minutes, I hope you'll be in the next session. Any other comments, suggestions on the record? If not, who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? So, gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm saying that the record is 3. Plenary sessions adopted. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. We didn't get any representative questions and answers to the new answers to the parliamentary questions after the 16th session. Dear gentlemen, you have your word, if you'd like to set your words. Honorable representative Mrs Violeta Kamberović takes precedence over Mr Bjelobrk. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5427	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, esteemed guests, media representatives. On the plea and appeal of the people of Posavina Canton, I want to ask a representative question that reads. How long will the citizens of Posavina County be forced to be treated in Mostar? I want to give a brief explanation about that. I am aware that the counties are making a decision on health, but such a decision by the government of Posavina County is directed directly against its citizens. A great effort represents a healthy man, heading from Orash or Odjak to Mostar, not to say what it means to a sick man. With all the costs of hospital treatment, citizens must bear travel expenses, which are quite high. I believe that this situation is no longer just a matter of Posavina County and, in this regard, I would like to make a proposal. To try to establish co-operation with the Tuzlan Canton and the possibility of treating the construction of the Posava County at the Tuzlan Clinical Center. I hope the Council of Ministers will be able to answer this question and I also believe that they will try to find a solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5428	I thank the honourable representative, Mrs. Kamberović. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, and let the honourable representative of Mr. Senad Šarganović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5429	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions for you first, and I would like to ask your oral response here immediately. What should happen to get answers to a series of questions from 19 May 2001 until today about events in Banja Luka and Trebinj?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5430	Do you need it right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5431	I'll sit in the seat. So, what's supposed to happen? My second question, according to Article 129. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, I request information from the RS President, the Vice-President of the RS Assembly and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, asking for full and true information on the content and arrangements reached in their visit to Moscow. (b) I request information in accordance with Article 124 of the Foreign Minister, also on this visit and in accordance with Article 32(2). Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the Foreign Affairs Commission consider this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5432	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bjelobrk. To this first question, it should happen that we get an answer to our questions, which we've been looking for. As soon as we get that 7 we will, only if we need to make the information that we haven't got what we're looking for yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5433	I, for the third time, am publicly looking for this pay phone for this correspondence, which you claim exists. I can't get that correspondence at all. Tell me if it's any secrets, no problem, people we're gonna make a deal. But to say for the third time in this payphone, I'm looking for that correspondence, I'm not going to get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5434	I would like to thank Mr. Bjelobrk's representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Šarganović, and may the honourable representative, Mr. Sead Buturović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5435	My question. When will the construction of the Izecic border crossing be completed? When will the works begin, since the tender is over? Secondly, when it will be fully released into operation, the border crossing of Užlebić. That's the way Dolji Lap... Biatch. Third. Which BiH's institution and level of government is competent to check. How and how have foreign citizens without BiH citizenship and without published competitions at the level of municipalities and cantons? An example. A regional hospital in Bihac, is this hospital on strike right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5436	I would like to thank Reverend Senad Šarganović. Rijeka has a representative, Mr. Buturović, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić, be prepared. We've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5437	My colleagues and fellow members of the Council of Ministers, members of the College, for a short period of time, I had two questions, but I will prepare the second question, since it is longer, for the next session that is very soon and this will be a short one today. Unknowingly, by chance, it also relates to the question of my esteemed colleague who had previously spoken and said so. What does the federal government, the state-of-the-art health ministry, or is it planning to do to unite health facilities in the city of Mostar?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5438	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Lolić, and let the representative Mr. Malkić be prepared. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5439	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, two questions, i.e. initiatives. First, I ask the Council of Ministers to provide us with an overview of all international contracts, especially credit arrangements, waiting for the ratification of the House of Representatives. The reason is, that very last item of the agenda, because I think that we have entered the debt phase and that, with regard to this second initiative, some things could be resolved by adopting certain laws more quickly. Secondly, I ask that the Council of Ministers and the College of the House for the next session prepare the subject of all the laws, which are in parliamentary procedure, with a brief description of the problem, which prevents the placing of the law on the agenda of our home. For example, it's a concession law. I think we've passed the concession law by now. Maybe we could have avoided this railroad loan, so we can handle it with concessions. It seems to me that, with this story today about the budget of big problems, that we want those money that the previous generations have preserved, we spend within a month of getting it, simply requiring solutions like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5440	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5441	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished guests, I have two questions, one of which is for the Council of Ministers. Namely, it concerns the third operator of the GSM network, i.e. mobile phones. At what stage is it, and why haven't we yet received information about the previously scheduled tender? The second question concerns the work program of our home. Namely, why is the adopted Work Programme of the House of Representatives not respected? Why are traffic and communication laws not in the process and when will it be? And in the end, I'd like to subdue again, if I had asked in the previous sessions. When will it come to the agenda of the violation of the High Representative's decision on the use of social land? We're still not prepared for that. Will it be this year or will it possibly...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5442	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. Since there are no more registered MPs to ask questions. There is still a respected representative, Mr. Jovanović. I would ask you, if anyone else has to ask a question or attach... 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5443	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I asked a question last time. Why did the High Representative appoint four members of the Electoral Commission instead of this home? I didn't get the answer. I don't think that was so hard to answer, but obviously it was something that probably needs to be hidden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5444	I thank the esteemed representative Jovanović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Begović, and may the honourable representative Mr. Baković be prepared. I suggest, if there's more of you than these three, let's continue after the break, or you'll be a little faster to finish this part of the agenda. So they still have three, Begović, Baković and Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5445	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as an authorised promoter, I have proposed in the form of draft 14 laws. Eight is in the process, because the Council of Ministers accepted the contents of my draft laws and the Council of Ministers is completely identical. I'm perfectly pleased to have these eight in the process. However, what is the fate of the remaining six draft laws, which I have proposed as an authorised promoter? I ask this question to the College as well as to the Council of Ministers, which concerns the following proposals: the draft law on BiH property, the draft law on the fundamentals of real estate transport, the draft law on road transport contracts, the draft law on rail transport contracts, the draft law on interstate and inter-entity communications and the draft law on the financing of railway infrastructure. I don't know what the fate of my bill is? They're not in the process, I can't see. Otherwise, I am pleased that the Council of Ministers has put in the procedure, as their proposals of these eight laws, because they are identical by content. The next question refers again to earlier questions, which I have asked, because I have not received an answer to certain questions and I believe that they are of paramount importance. I've never received an answer from the authorities. Secondly, to which I have not received an answer, the application of curricula and programmes in primary and secondary schools of foreign states, other countries, directly. Fourth, the protection of historical monuments and the prevention of the rise of monuments, which have no historical character. I didn't get an answer to this question either, and I'm asking you to give me an answer to that question. The fifth question, regulating the legal status of pensioners' homes as social property, is so far not regulated in our country and here you can see for yourself, there is privatisation on the scene. Homes are left unsettled, unresolved question of this. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5446	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Begović. We've got two more if it's gonna be expeditionive per minute. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Kovačević, and make sure Baković is prepared. If it lasts longer, we'll finish and you'll proceed later.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5447	Honorable MPs, esteemed guests, I have one quick question. What's to be done to get rid of traffic chaos at the exit from Sarajevo to Doboj. 23.11. When the first snow fell, from Stupa's loop to my exit from Ilias, I traveled straight for four hours. I could have gone to Moscow by the time I got out of Sarajevo, and it's not what Doboy roads maintain from High to Doboy, the road was planted and everything, but it says, it keeps the ways of the Doboy roads south, and this Canton Sarajevo, this was the ruse. I traveled for four hours on my way out.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5448	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Baković, and after the distinguished representative Baković, we finish this morning's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5449	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs, the Honorable President. I just wanted to say a few words about the position of the Hrvat in the woodwork. It's a pretty tough situation. From many municipalities, people from BiH came to the Drvar, left their houses. But now they have to leave the apartments they own, of course, the apartments are not theirs and the law understands that they must be freed. However, no one, nor the state, nor the existing local authorities care about these people, who are actually homeless, to allow them alternative accommodation or to be allowed in real terms to return to their destroyed or burned homes. I would also ask the BiH Council of Ministers from this place, and by means of both the Federation authorities and us here and all the people of good faith... to settle this issue once and to take care of these people. They're beheaded. They're leaving mass now, moving to Canada, America, etc., and they can't return to their homeland. It's supposed to show a little more understanding, not some cynicism, an imagination. What to do with them and how to deal with them? Also, the international community as such does not lead to this problem sufficiently calculated, but using various moments, at the expense of Hercegbossan County, as such real ones miss propaganda etc. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5450	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Baković. I'm taking a break until 13. So, to be exact, we keep going at 13 and try to finish the agenda. 11 Ad.3. A review of the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of property, which BiH has received under the Agreement on Sucession Affairs in the Banca for International Alignment in Basel, is proposed by the Council of Ministers. [[PAUZA]] The Commission responsible shall be the Commission for Finance and Budget. She, I think, was ambushed and the report you got. You received the bill at the 16th session. At that time, the House adopted a request from the Council of Ministers for the draft law to be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. At the last meeting, you were informed that the Council of Ministers took the view that this legislative proposal is being considered together with the draft amending the 2000 budget. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I think, too, that you have and the opinion was about the principle and the principle of a positive one. Is there anyone in front of the Council of Ministers who wants to speak? Mr. Domazet has the word. I suggest the minister, if he can cover this report, these three points because they're tied up, so we can take the whole exposure and you know we're up to four.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5451	Thank you very much, that's exactly what I was going to do. Mr. President-in-Office of BiH, the Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen of the high house. You have three important documents that are intruding at the very heart of BiH's market and social reforms. More specifically, it concerns our relationship with macroeconomic stability, development, the construction of market institutions and the social sphere, and are particularly important because of the next phase of negotiations with the IMF on the Stand Bay arrangement, which determines BiH's future, at least for the next three difficult years. It is about the Rebalancing Proposal for the 2002 Budget with the accompanying law, the Law on the Use of Sucession Funds, which BiH received by dividing the assets of the former SFRY and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. The rebalancing proposal, which was established by the BiH Presidency, refers to an increase in the 2001 budget, by 47.2 million KM, however, seen structurally, part of the administrative budget is increasing by 54.8 million and part of the external debt repayment budget is reduced by 7.6 million. The need for a rebalancing of the budget was established on the same day, when this budget was adopted in March 2000 and if it was known that in 2001, a number of new BiH institutions should be established and the development of newly-founded institutions should continue. In fact, the increase in the budget was only 11% compared to the 200-year budget and, of course, it made it impossible to achieve all the plans in relation to the development of BiH institutions. The last eight-month period, in fact, is the period of ongoing attempts to rebalance the budget, so the proposed proposal is the result of long-term analyses and debates, 12 i.e. alignments, extended in the magic triangle of the Council of Ministers, i.e. BiH institutions, BiH entities and the IMF. In particular, the IMF has played an active role, and in the last month and a half, it specifically recommended that we end the parliamentary procedure regarding the examination of the budget, i.e. the rebalancing of the 2000 budget. I want to start at the beginning, right away, to say that there have been speculations that the Council of Ministers has been forced to do this rebalancing because it has breached the approved amount of funds set out in the 2001 budget. I would like to vigorously deny such speculation and inform this high home that with 28 November, therefore, we are overlapping data, that the budget of the BiH institutions is within the approved sums of 92.2 million, i.e. that 70 million KM has been used effectively and there are total requirements with what has been paid to be paid to 76 million. So we're completely within the framework of an approved budget. We have the flexibility to continue to manage the functioning of BiH institutions and we want to carry out everything necessary in a perfectly normal procedure regarding the rebalancing process. The time in which we are discussing is only a meager factor, but at least the merits of the Council of Ministers have come into this position. In fact, that was what these reasons were about at first. The position of BiH institutions, when we look at this triangle magically, which I have said is at least stable and most unfavourable. The BiH Council of Ministers, which has been operationally preparing the rebalancing and responsible for its implementation, faces today's level of development of BiH institutions, with a reality in which these institutions do not have any stable income, i.e. primary source revenues for their functioning. The existing system of institution financing was based on the contributions of entities and external donations and could be the source of funding under undeveloped institutions, as it was two or three years ago. Today its load capacity is far below the funding burden, which are required for the established institutions and those to be developed in the future. The total total total consumption in BiH is about 50% of the social product and is well above its share in the Southeast European countries, in a 40 per cent transition. In doing so, BiH institutions are burdening BiH's social product with 1.04% in the existing budget, or in the Budget Rebalance Proposal 1.43%. So the problem of BiH and its high general spending at various levels of state and public administration, not the problem of financing BiH institutions. Otherwise, these documents are being discussed in a very difficult year. Growth of social product o.g. is estimated at 6%. The financial flows are very reduced because we haven't had any external donations this year. So this year it's going to be a net-outflo, a net outflow of money from BiH, because we're going to pay off around 185 million marks effectively, and we didn't have any cash inflows. The concept of reforms implemented by the BiH Council of Ministers is based on the postulates of the institutional economy. This is the direction that has shown its results in almost all successful transition countries. It is part of knowing that there is no free LSF market, but is managed by institutions operating in certain economic sectors, as well as areas supporting the economy, such as the judiciary of security of guaranteeing democratic rights and freedom of citizens and peoples. 13 In our approach to the European Union, as regards the forthcoming Stabilisation of Association Agreement, the adopted Roadmap, Rod-map, is, in fact, a guideline to the construction of institutions, their functioning. Building BiH institutions is our interest and it is not true that we are developing them only under the pressure of the international community. However, it must be noted that we are in the provision of resources for these institutions, limited by often high standards, which the international community places in newly established BiH institutions, such as this. State border service, judicial and ombudsman institutions, etc. Some of them do not have a transparent funding, and if they are on our budget, asking us to give their share from the Budget, and not showing a portion of the revenue, which relates to other sources of funding, the House of Human Rights, the Office of the Ombudsman for Human Rights, the Commission for Property Requirements, etc. In developing BiH institutions, we are aware that we must ensure an effective and efficient management approach, with a rational use of funds. I would like to point out that the Council of Ministers has been making great efforts lately to ensure a new approach to rationalisation, organised by BiH institutions, for which the widest framework provides a proposed law on the State Service. By adopting and implementing it, we will introduce a professional approach and rationalisation special in the organisation and in equating salaries and spending standards in all BiH institutions. To rationalize, we should not be forced by the IMF alone. We're self-aware of that. I will only give you the information that just seven days ago the Council of Ministers decided that within the framework of the II Stability Pact programme, which was held yesterday and today in Sarajevo, to cancel Operation Hasanaginica and cocktail for international participants, because we had no way to secure 21,000 marks for these purposes. With regard to BiH institutions and their funding, I cite several open issues, which we must bear in mind and during this debate. The first of them is how to coordinate the development and functioning policy of BiH institutions with the resources that encourage these institutions. Two possible solutions in that sense. First of all, we adapt to our policy-based resources. Secondly, we increase resources to have a larger material basis for the development of institutions. And in the case of this rebalancing, I must say, and in the entire poseiton period, institutions go by road and resources by forest. Such a situation is unsustainable, as the institution's funding problem has become too serious and there is no room for a voluntary decision on their financing anymore. The second question is how to define the standards for contributions, the procedures for determining the entity's contribution to the BiH Institutions Budget. There may be more solutions in this area, but I have to say that this problem has to be solved. For the 2002 Budget, we already have the situation that the RS in its draft, without any co-ordination with the Council of Ministers, has determined that the amount of concession for next year is 20.1 million marks and that is what the standard in the current situation is. The third issue, how to provide stable primary sources of funding for BiH institutions. There are certainly possible solutions to generate revenues based on taxis, based on services provided by BiH institutions and specifically concessions for the use of frequency spectrum and other concessions in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions. We will seriously begin the debate on income insurance issues, the original incomes of BiH institutions, which can be served by the legislation for taxing property in the country, for 14 taxing on movable property, and then for participating in customs revenues, i.e. sales taxes, especially in conditions where the law is introduced on additional value. And finally, the question of how to escape the financial discipline of users is calculated by the BiH institution. You've seen us hold that discipline. However, it is very important that, in accordance with the Treasury Act, we establish the vault of BiH institutions and work together with JUESEID on the project, and we think that this kind of business could begin from 1.7.2002. A major contribution to the transparency of the budget and its control is provided by the Office for Audit, whose annual reports prompted a discussion on the essential issues of the use of budget funds in BiH institutions. So much for the Council of Ministers' position in that magic triangle. It's the second position of the IMF. The IMF played a very active role, especially because we are preparing for a new three-year stand Bay arrangement. You know that so far we have had one-year arrangements and the transition to a three-year arrangement is one of the special evidences of trust in the BiH government, as it is going towards a longer-term regulation of the basis for macroeconomic policy and support through a credit arrangement. The IMF successfully opposes the creation of any deficit, and it supported such a budget and in particular the rebalancing of the budget covering all expenditures. There were a lot of reservations regarding the justification of this budget, but we constantly, every day in line, had progress and the IMF's last position is that if entities agree with the proposed increases that they will have nothing. In this way, we would have derailed one obstacle in preparing this budget. I'm going to say something more about the IMF's position on the Sucession Act, but let me finish this part, which is related to the rebalancing of the budget. Based on the circumstances, I would like to point out that we had the finals in preparation for this rebalancing at the Co-ordination Body for Economic Development on 25 November in Sarajevo. At that time we agreed to the representatives of the entity the whole package, that is, this whole package, which is in debate at this home today, and I would like to recapture the proposals in the finals and give some arguments. So the basic reasons for the change in the 2001 budget, which implies an increase of 54.8 million KM, are the result of the following factors. First, changes in volume and income structure. The income, as you can see from your documents, was not realized by the intended structure. We have significantly changed that structure and introduced new sources of income. Among them is the current income structure of 19.7%, entity transfers are reduced to 43.9 in a relative sense, they are absolutely increased. Sucession funds were introduced as a new source with 14.7% and donations with 21.7%. The second reason for which we approach the changes is the budget, the non-compliance of the March 2001 budget with the BiH institutions' development policies for 2001. In this context, the increase is proposed to increase from 10 million and 557,000 marks, which relate to the State Border Service and to increase its budget by 7.1 million in effective sources, then to institutions that were not 15 covered by the budget, such as the State Court, the Archives, the Institute of Standards and Measurement, the Institute of Accreditation, the Veterinary Office, etc. 2,323,000 and for institutions that have given Rod-mp a special role and have requested new resources, such as the House of Human Rights, the Ombudsman's Office and the Commission for Property Requirements, 1,118,000. The third reason for access to the amending budget is the application of a new methodology. We want to increase transparency of the budget and include all donations in the budget. We had a situation earlier that the donations were not covered by the budget and on this basis, the methodologically with the neutral effects of the amount of income, such as expenditure, was increased by 22,876,000. It's about the next donations. A donation from the Government of the Netherlands to the State Border Service, a donation from the UK Embassy to the State Border Service, a donation from the UNHCR to the Immigration Programme, donations to support the CER and donations in non-money form to the State Border Service, a total of 22.8 million marks. The fourth reason is, unreal planning, which has led to difficulties in the functioning of some institutions, such as the BiH Presidency, the foreign ministry, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. For example, the BiH presidency had a lower budget this year than it had in the previous year. Based on this, an increase of 10,838,000 marks. The inclusion of old inherited cleaning obligations in this budget, therefore, the commitments we encountered since 1.1.2001, amounted to 4.6 million and the need to regulate BiH's membership in international organisations, beginning with the UN, starting from the day of BiH's independence, were the reason to increase the budget by 5.950,000 marks. As for the second part of the budget, which relates to the repayment of the external debt, it is proposed to reduce it from 212.1 million to 204.5 h, down from 7.6 million due to certain changes in the payout and change in exchange for exchange rates. I, by the way, want to inform this high home that the state of BiH's debt is based on loans that make BiH a guarantee, that it represents today's debt situation, is today a billion and 949 million dollars, or somewhere around 4.2 billion marks. The total agreed state of credit is, 2 billion and 459, but are not engaged, no amount of credit has been hired to this difference that I made to you. In this year we reduced the country's debt by loans. In fact, we're going to pay off about $90 million somewhere, and we've effectively increased use this year by only $19.5 million. So these are data, which in fact show that we are running a rational foreign borrowing policy, while at the same time data showing that BiH is not an over-indebted country and that its perfomance, in relation to borrowing, can increase the growth of the social product and especially the increase in exports. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5452	Minister, I'd like to ask you, it's about first reading, so maybe you don't go into detail. Maybe you'd better lobby for these laws, 'cause it's about first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5453	It's a rebalancing package. I'm moving on to the third document, and it's a document related to the succession. The law, which was proposed and after the agreement at the Co-ordination Body for Economic Development, you have received certain amendments, is intended to cover, by law, the division of concession funds, obtained from the account, the Bank for International Alignment in Basel of 151.5 million. These funds are already available and are available to us. The second basis is the funds in the accounts of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, amounting to around 130 million, which are available after the agreement, which will be reached among the successor countries. The agreement is very difficult to reach, because there have been significant differences in the information on the amount of funds, compared to the values shown in the conflict agreement signed in June o.g. in Vienna and what is available today. That's why I expect there to be a lot of work to be done and these funds to work. We have put forward a proposal for this law, a way to use the funds, and the funds, which are currently available, have been specifically treated, thus amounting to 151.5 million, and in particular a proposal for 130 million. These funds are mostly intended for development and a total of around 78 million of these funds are directed for development, with 25.5 million being proposed to be transferred to the Central Bank in reserve form and 52.7 million being used for development projects, at the level of the Council of Ministers. It is proposed that these funds also intervene in the entity's budgets, with 51 million in terms of reconciliation of commitments, which they transferred from previous years. The rest is proposed to settle old commitments and one-time projects, at the level of the BiH Institutions' Budget. I must say that the proposal we made was the result of and long-term negotiations with the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, the International Monetary Fund essentially took the view that the priority should be given to the use of these funds, the reconciliation of old obligations that BiH and entities have, and in this respect gave priority to paying for the savings roles of citizens, which are frozen in local banks. He also supported the reconciliation of budget commitments from earlier periods, such as pensions, disability and other obligations. We are in formulating this proposal, assessing that we must give a priority emphasis on development. So in the complete proposal 130 million from this second tranche and 78 million from these funds, of 151 million we proposed, practically for development. This means that of the total funds of 281 million, 74% go into development, of which at the level of the Council of Ministers is 78 million, at entity level 130 million. We think that this approach, as a result of optimization of different views, so, the IMF, entities and the Council of Ministers, was the only possible way to find a solution, which will also ensure the reconciliation of old obligations and the insurance of development funds. 17 I would like to complete this exhibition, with expectations, that in the debate and relationship to these documents we will prove our ability to be the creators of very important economic decisions ourselves and to be able to develop partnership with international institutions with this approach in ensuring conditions for economic growth in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5454	I would like to thank Mr. Domazet for his explanation for these three points. I call on Mr Belkić's presidency member, if necessary, given that the Bureau is proposing the 4th and 5th points, as shown in the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5455	So, here I am, not to take up your time, of course, all of you welcome, the Presidency has tried to respond to its obligation and, as soon as possible, to have this document on the table. However, I must express my regret and in some way an apology on behalf of the promoter, which is happening now and not two months ago. The point that I came out of this is to say that through the debate, the procedural debate, which was held here in the Assembly, therefore, on the Commission for Finance and Budget, two amendments were highlighted, which the Commission accepted and delivered to the Presidency and the Bureau discussed these amendments and both adopted them. It is an amendment relating to the Office for Audits, amounting to 57,198.30, so we accepted this amendment, that the budgetary positions of the Office for Audits should not be reduced by these 57,198 and that this amount should be settled in the current reserves. So, the BiH Audit Office stays at the planned level for 2001, and current reserves decrease by the same amount. We also accepted the amendment, which refers to the allocation of 500,000 marks to support the return to Srebrenica, and according to the conclusion, of course, our commitment was in any case to support this, but it also gave us this conclusion from this assembly, when BiH adopted for 2001. So, we accept as an integral part of this proposal, that from the funds intended for projects for the return of displaced persons and refugees, amounting to 3.327 0,40, which is secured by the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees, 500,000 marks are allocated as a special item. So, the Return Support Project in Srebrenica, as a special item, and that for this amount, the absolute amount for these return projects is reduced. That's when it comes to amendments. So please consider these amendments an integral part of our proposal. And finally, let me say, in the debate, the Presidency has come to some conclusions from the debate, which are attached to you. I only want to make two points. We really appeal to the Council of Ministers, to the Resort Ministry and, of course, including us, as the Presidency to take over part of our commitment, when it comes to next year's budget, to do everything in the budget next year, to enter with a budget set. Of course, this is an optimal requirement, but to make sure that next year we do not enter without the budget and last thing, the Presidency has for the third time been demanding, initiating, asking the Council of Ministers to come out with the project, which will provide the original financing of the BiH state. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5456	I thank Mr. Belkić, the member of the presidency. I believe that there will be no House of Representatives and there will be no obstacle to discussing the Budget as soon as it arrives. So, you've received reports from the commission, you know that on this point 3. there have been two amendments, since these are amendments from the Commission, they have become an integral part of the text. I think you have that part of the text. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. So it's about first reading. First we have to, then we'll do the second, if it's as correct as it looks. Point 3. evo in front of the Commission, the distinguished representative of Ms Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5457	I welcome all present, given that in order in our agenda it is under point 3. A draft law on the purpose of using the property, which BiH has received, under an agreement on the bank's succession issue for international settlements in Basel, I will start shortly from that law. The Commission has scheduled a session on 27.11. with agenda, Budget Question, Budget Rebalancing and the issue of amending the Budget Implementation Act. We received a request from the College on 22.11. to discuss the issue of this conflict law as a matter of urgency. That's what we put on the agenda on 27.11. At that session we discussed together the Budget and the amendments to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets and this item of the Agenda of the Law on Succession. At that session, amendments to the proposed text of the proposal for a law on the use of property were submitted. I'll call him a succecusion, so I'm shorter. We have discussed this law and it is the Commission's view that the reasons and principles of the law are acceptable and that such a law can be adopted and that it should be proposed to the House to adopt it. That is the opinion of the Commission. However, we continued this session today, after 27, because today, as far as I know, the Constitutional and Legal Committee was sitting, and we wanted to finally adopt our opinion after the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we did so. It's the procedure as fast as possible. You have these amendments, you got them within 48 hours, you should have gotten them, if you didn't get the report they did. If you do not think that this is sufficient time to consider the issue of these amendments, which are proposed, which will be extended within the legal text, you can appreciate it. I honestly told you how the work of the Commission was going. Given that this item was subsequently placed on the agenda, the Commission felt that we should not be braked, that this law should be considered and adopted, especially as we believe it is directly related to the adoption of these other two laws. The report noted that this house, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, had already agreed at its meeting on 20.11.2001, to consider the bill as an emergency procedure. Following this dynamic, the Commission considered, considering this law, putting it on the agenda as I said. In order to satisfy the procedure laid down in Article 84. The Rules of Procedure of this House, the 23rd session of the Commission, has been continued and has been completed today. The Commission confirmed its position on the adoption of the principles and text of the law, and the reasons for the adoption contained in the need to speed up the economic development of BiH and entities, the consolidation of the Budget of the BiH institutions, the international obligations and the entity budget, through the reconciliation of 19 commitments, in the name and on the basis of membership, then to persons with disabilities and other purposes, which were created by 31.12.2000, which is also highlighted in the very explanation of the text of the bill. The amendments adopted are accompanied by the state of the final arrangements of the Commission and have been proposed to adopt this House in the composition of the other proposal. Proposed amendments and additions to the budget of the BiH institution and international commitments in 2001, rebalancing for 2001. The budget rebalancing, including the principles and reasons for the rebalancing, as seen in the report, was accepted with two amendments, and only acceptance means that the Commission had in mind the reasons for the rebalancing that are summed up for the internal non-compliance of revenue schedules on budgetary users in the absence of a edible planning methodology. Insisting the international community, for BiH's development, is also a condition for BiH's involvement in European integration. Set up a single vault account, establishing a single methodology, responsibilities for the use of budget funds, different approach to planning, enforcement, which also insists on a proposal. The amendments have been delivered to you today, you can track which changes are involved, which was enough. Just some more illustrative data. I think the promoter touched this one that I was illustrating. The BiH State Court, the BiH Archives, the Institute of Standards and Measurement, the Institute of Accreditation, the Veterinary Office, were not previously funded through this budget. It is a new item and it is a total of 2,323,000 as the promoter explained. The House of Human Rights, the Commission for Property Requirements, the Office of the Ombudsman for Human Rights and the Constitutional Court has been singled out only 1.592.000. For the Regulatory Agency for Communications, 170,000 were envisaged and 3,330,000 were rebalanced. For the State Border Service, 20 million were foreseen, and now the rebalance envisions another 23 million. For this purpose, the expansion of institutions, the rebalancing is about 30 million, significantly more than half of the total amount foreseen by the rebalancing. For state-owned Contribution, the rebalancing is 5.950,000. A further table review shows that the BiH Assembly Parliament, rebalanced funds, is only 94,978 marks. The Council of Ministers only 69.150, Ministry of European Integration 175,000 marks and something. The BiH Joint Institution Service 485,000, totalling 734,000 for all of these institutions. This is the minimum that could be and this shows that institutions have not spent much more and that the rebalancing does not belong to them any more significant means that the Commission might possibly be able to discuss. In particular, it is looking forward to increasing the funds of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, amounting to 4,806,000 marks, when known, for what purposes these funds will be used. Only a significant increase and the BiH institution are at the foreign ministry, but this is 16.12% compared to the planned funds, which, given the development of the representative network, is certainly not a large sum. This was all the reason why the Commission had no reserves and, with these two amendments, adopted the Amending Budget. As regards the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2001, as shown by the report you have received, the amendments to this law are unanimously supported, and this means that the Commission has accepted that changes in the function of financial discipline, the establishment of a single methodology, the tactical identification and regulation of documents, as well as the basis for the transfer and spending of funds, the existence of analytical and dynamic plans, as 20 basiss for the creation of a consolidated budget plan, the establishment of full urgency in bookkeeping, including reporting and the establishment of reserves. All of this has been highlighted in the light of the proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets and the Commission has accepted and proposed to this House that such a law, as proposed and with the proposed amendments, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5458	I thank distinguished representative Emini Zaćiragić, for his explanation, for the report. We've heard reports of principles in front of the committee in charge. We're continuing the debate. Do you have a word, Mr. Begović has an esteemed representative, and let the honourable representative Mr. Kovačević be prepared. We're mostly discussing the principles on which the law is proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5459	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly appreciate the presentation of Dr Domazet and the president of our Commission on Budget and Finance. Since it is an extremely important material, and as the amendments have arrived too late, it is too short to be able to make a statement directly and directly now, and how it is, if it is true, if we accept the fact that it is still a first reading, that means the Draft, I suggest, on behalf of the Party's Party for BiH Club, that, however, we delay the declaration of adoption in the form of the proposal, all three of these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5460	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Begović. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5461	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, esteemed guests, I would, therefore, not repeat what has been said so far, I would support Mr Belkić's proposal to draft the budget, bring in the next fiscal year, not bring it to May as we have this year. That's one. Two, I would no longer like it to happen in this House, if we were to discuss budget rebalancing in December, he should be discussed at the latest in June. The water's been released into the water heater, and we're only turning out to be a flow water heater now to drop that water. Because what's spent in 11 months, it's really spent. We need to sanction it and put it under some umbrella, but we need to do it transparently, we need to do it on time, as the law stipulates, and we need to move on from these birth troubles of ours once. Secondly, I couldn't see from this, and I didn't want to ask for much, if the actual increase was provided with income. Here you look at some round figures. He says he's coming in from a cab for 20 million. Who is just the ear of those five zeros, seven I do not know about, for such calculations. That must be some remarkable calculations, etc. However, in us many things are done on a flat-rate basis, and so is our budget. It seems to me that only this as an increase for children is small, a little bit to play to sneak up on, that is to say 21 The Audit Office would have nothing to do, when it's doing that the items are all aligned and I believe if anyone who's been doing the budget around these ministries, and that, that they've adjusted this budget to themselves, so that they'd have as little break-ins as possible and that they'd have as little... I would especially like to refer to this law on the application of this succession of the former Yugoslavia. It's not the bank's concession to settle in Basel, it's a session of former Yugoslavia's assets. I would like it to remain recorded here in anals, that from that former Yugoslavia it remains 119,543 ounces of gold. That's what our grandfathers and great-grandfathers left us. We predict this to spend on buying social peace one part, on pensions for entity budgets and that, and I wonder what we're going to leave to our grandchildren and our children, but we're not going to do anything. So this is where we showed all of our poor people not to say. These ounces of gold were to be left at the BiH Central Bank as a basis for the BiH coin, which is KM. In all countries, it would have been done normally and it would have remained where it came from, part of where it was received, and not that one, I have nothing, don't let anyone get me wrong, that I have against the pensioners. I'd like the pensioners to have twice as much income as they have, but I'm not in principle because, as an economist, I have to tell you, that gold, which is inherited, which should be like the basis for a coin, to be passed on, is being sold on the world market, and to buy some social peace. Dear politicians, dear colleagues, I'm against it, but that's what you suggested and so be it. Therefore, I would like to see the future or when we inherit something, etc. That's for real, that's for purpose and how we're supposed to spend it. I don't know, if there won't be a foundation in gold, it won't be, probably now our basis for the conversion mark into the euro, what if we don't have the euro, we don't have the gold, then we'll, our coin won't be able to hold, inflation and all the other disorders will happen. Is the Karensi-Bord rule that's been introduced and it's going to stop going on for 6-7 years, because it has its own negative sides, what we think we have is a stable currency. So, despite our stable currency, there's inflation, and there's development, employment and all the stops, there's no means to develop, there's no printing of money, there's nothing, and you don't have a basis for issuing a new one. How to provide development. I see this right here, I welcome this. If it went rationally, it wouldn't go back to pensions and these 70, how many millions were proposed for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, or if it didn't go into someone's pockets, and the people were not hired and there was no development. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5462	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5463	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I'm listening to all these debates here and, in some ways, I can't figure it out, and that's next. I can accept, here's that we've had to be this late, but I can't accept it, I'm a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, that on our calls, our demands, our interest, what about budget rebalances. What about the 2002 budget, but nobody's responding. I'll be free here and tell you next. Obviously, you're still holding on, sort of above this parliament. It seems you haven't realized that you're responding to this House, and that's why we're coming to a situation like this. Please, so understanding, you've had these days, here I'll say it's incomprehensible. We 22 are adopting budget rebalances by a shortened procedure. We adopt by a brief procedure, as the money of the people is spent. We swallowed it all. Swallowed, because we understand what would happen if the rebalancing wasn't adopted, and he wouldn't have been adopted in the regular procedure this year. What are the consequences behind this pay phone? You don't have to say that. Please, we have to say today that we have denied normal procedure to the Finance and Budget Commission, we must say that the Commission has not done this job professionally or professionally. It's a fact, it's a fact, and there were dear gentlemen to discuss. Take a look at the items of expenditure for materials and services and contract services and take a look at the ministry one by one. You can blame me. It's my impression that nothing has changed in principle. That the Institute of Internal Control of the Ministry has not revived. I don't know if you've brought in the necessary regulations that regulate this area within the ministries. I don't think so either. I think so. Because you didn't let me in and get into this problem. I would therefore propose today to this Parliament that we return to the conclusions and conclusions adopted by this House of Representatives and adopted on the Commission's proposal for finance and budget when we discussed the findings of the Audit Office. Those three ministries, etc. when we had the agenda. Please, the deadline was as much as I remember, and I remember for 30 days that all the ministries were making reports about what was done in that regard. Therefore, the Members' Club will support the adoption of rebalancing, subject to what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5464	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Ramiz Vilić. Is anyone else answering for word? The word came from a respected representative, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5465	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, we're talking about three points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5466	You can look back if you want, but we'll certainly conduct the procedure individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5467	I think the rapporteur reported to us, so we had a report on three points of the agenda, so I'm going to look back a little bit on budget rebalance for this year. It is obvious that the 2001 budget and budget rebalancing were not working by the same persons. Because I think the budget-making system itself is a little different and I think that whoever had the chance and who had the time to see more detail of this, that there are mistakes, to say accounting. Here is specifically the case with the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so according to the 2001 budget, there were 3 million 746 thousand 084, and here in this material we have 3 million and 946 thousand, meaning that somewhere 200 thousand were lost. I suppose it's for work, I think it's for the work of MPs' clubs, but it should have been emphasized. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications is also similar. So there's also 70,000 missing somewhere, and I think that's what this communications regulatory agency is all about. I say one who has had time and a little bit of looking at the income and analysis schedule can essentially notice that the expenditure on salaries is 23 employees, except for the Parliamentary Assembly and the Treasury Ministry to say they are reduced here, I guess because of the reduced number of employees, and all the rest I say to the institutions, so there's been an increase in employees' salaries. The second thing that can also be noted, I think is an enormous increase in the cost of employees and in the cost of materials and services. I'll try some drastic examples here to point out which in my opinion are not acceptable. Let me say first I'm going to start here from the Presidency, at least what I noticed, I think that here are the specific meanings of service representations according to the budget were projected to be 126 thousand and 786, and the rebalance is an increase of 131.041, so much more than 100%. We also see that there have been huge increases, whether there has been an increase in the price of impulses, but that means in the cost of PTT services, I don't know, and I don't know exactly mean the cost of electricity and what I know. The second thing, he says is the rest of the unmentioned services and taxes. 63,000 were scheduled, rebalanced plus another 45 grand. Is it usually that you don't mention services and taxes you don't know what it is, what it's about. I think it's used for some things that are probably not acceptable. Furthermore, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court. There's a huge increase in travel costs here. With 60 grand, that means a rebalancing of 156 grand. Is that what the judges are doing on the ground? I mean, I really don't understand how I'm making such a difference. So from 60 grand to 156 grand. Although it says expenditure on energy or supplies of material from 14000 to 18,400, or expenditure on fuel and transport services from 5,000 to 13,000. Or I'm going back to the rest of the unmarked services and taxes from 18 grand to 182.106 marks. From 18 grand to 182,000. I see here an increase for a warm meal and vacation, and as planned, a reduction in the number of employees in the budget is foreseen. So there were 35 employees in the 2001 budget, and now it's scheduled to be 25. I don't know if that's true, but what's the point if we have a reduction in the number of employees, and on the other hand, we have an increase in a warm meal and a regression. To say the situation is similar, here is exactly the same thing with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees about the cost of employees. From 114,480 to 286,719, so there's a huge increase here. Next thing I know, it's a similar situation with the other ministries. Here is what the Foreign Ministry specifically means. We have an increase for both a warm meal and an annual vacation, and the number of employees remains the same. So 532 was according to the budget, and also the rebalancing hasn't changed anything. What I especially want to point out is the State Border Service. The budget means for 2001 I was scheduled to make 20 million marks, with rebalancing means 27 million and 900 thousand. Here I would especially like to highlight the enormous increase in employees' salaries. I really don't have anything in principle against the State Border Service. Almost every day I cross the border, I think they are doing their jobs professionally and responsibly, but you can assume now that their colleagues in the interior ministries in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Republika Srpska will feel like. You can imagine what they're going to be like now, just means their morale, when they know they're doing maybe a lot more complex and more difficult jobs, and they have five times less pay. Is it just this we want to create a police state, this is to me to create a police state is to say I don't have to say anything against again, but the increase in all this with the State Border Service is really unacceptable if we have, I don't know if this is true according to the budget was 24 envisioned by 1424 employees, and by rebalancing 1065. So somewhere around 359 less employees, and all the items are almost higher by 100%. I don't know if those data are accurate, but in these materials we have, they're like that. A similar situation, I don't know why the Communications Regulatory Agency. So the budget envisioned 170 thousand marks, and the rebalancing of 3 million and 330 thousand marks. So that's three and a half million in total. I don't know why, I suppose it's a reward, that it's a reward for breaking down TV and radio stations in Republika Srpska, if it's likely they'll continue. Is it recently that the radio stations have been shut down as much as I could read in the Prince's office in Derventa, Shamac, Tesla? If that is their reward, then they probably deserve it and they will probably continue to shut down the local radio and TV stations in Republika Srpska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5468	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Miloš Jovanović. I note that this is about first reading although most of the debaters discussed in particular means in the second reading. But since we talked that we were probably going to go over some of the laws in both readings, that's why I didn't warn. Mr Abdurahman Malikić, the esteemed representative, came forward next, and let the honourable representative Mr Lolić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5469	Fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I'm going to talk about item number three on the purpose and use of property about succession. For me, this part of the funds in paragraph 3 and Article 6 is fundamental to this matter. In fact, I would like to suggest and possibly get information from the legislators of this law when the conditions of point 6 are defined if the users of these development funds, or credit, could already be, access to them or when these funds will be operational for those purposes. Then, I would like to suggest that any funds on this issue that will be allocated in the form of loans should not be at an interest rate of 15 and more than % and that the period of payment is understandable and that it attracts those who are ready... Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5470	I would like to thank Mr. Malkić, the honourable representative. The word has been given to Mr. Lolić. Let's get Mr. Cuplov's esteemed representative ready. And if anyone else wants to discuss it, they can sign up, and they can do it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5471	Now that we're at the point where we talk about principles I'd really like to talk about principles. So first, you'd like to share on this article 4 and here you'd fully support what Mr. Ljubo Kovačević was talking about. I was really raised so that what my father left me, and I keep my mother from wasting, and I can't possibly accept that we couldn't find any other solution today, but to spend 50 million this way in 25. I absolutely understand that pensioners are the most vulnerable, but as far as I know, here's only for Republika Srpska I know for sure that one pension is somewhere around 23 million, here will be 17, so not even one pension out of this can be paid. And we had the money. I'm absolutely so that this money goes to the third point, so it's for development projects, so let it fertilize. All you make is go to the pensioners. But I think we're gonna make a terrible mistake. And believe me, now I'm thinking if we have any other solution not to spread some demagogue from here. And now while I'm sitting, I've been thinking, let's say here's what I'm going to suggest. Well, isn't it wise to sell something or let's say I won't sell one now, but here's the Zenica Ironworks or the Ship Refinery or the Jelshingrad Banja Luka? Is there anything in this country that might be interesting right now, but let's agree to sell it and fill the budget. Because this is how you spend people's money on what we're gonna do by the year. I'm just a doctor, and I may not understand myself enough in the economy, but I think this is the worst way we could have chosen and I'm afraid we're going to make a big mistake. Other State Border Service. We all know when we discussed her that there were a lot of promises and the world that she would help. It turns out that we have to pay for it. Well, it's a good thing we do, but can she pick up those funds somehow? We're talking about corruption on crime about some hundreds of millions of marks spinning around here somewhere. Well, people, is there any way we can get some of that money together? Can we introduce some way to control our citizens' accounts and see if there really is any such funds? There's also talk of terrorism today, and with that point, can we maybe bring here the proposal, the decision to block the accounts? I simply cannot accept that there is no other way, because I believe that this way to spend the gold our ancestors left us will indeed be one stain in this House. With this smartness, I can't vote for this. And I think it's even better for me if we have to postpone the session by 10 days when we've been waiting this long, let's wait 10 more because we're about to have a second difficult decision, that's next year's budget. Later in Banja Luka, I attended a conversation with US Ambassador Mr Bonda, and the man made it clear to us – gentlemen first you must cut military spending and increase original incomes. That's two items. If you do this, I have sent a proposal, and soon we will also officially instruct him to still hold another mini donor conference for Bosnia and Herzegovina next year, that the world realizes that we have to go into reform, but that we need another help, because I fear that this work will not take us far, and I think it is better, here when I mentioned pensioners, I know that it is not directly in our jurisdiction, but the other day I was in Croatia and I read the morning list, I must say that I was fascinated by the way the Croatian Republic of Croatia refers to pensioners. They have entered reforms, and that is, deep pension fund reforms. Not to talk about what Slovenia did. Here I may be starting the idea today, and I've talked a lot about it with our Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović as a representative of the pensioners that maybe here in this House, although it might not be in our domain to make a round table, to call entity ministries, entity PIO, and to get people to offer us a solution. Is there any other solution? Because as far as I know, here's Teslić that Kardial and some of the other wanted to own the PIO. Is it possible that the solution is to sell those hotels and give it to them? I am maybe so that if you can borrow any of these funds as temporary. But to be given as permanent, I don't think it's good. Here's what I've said, just some dilemmas and I'm asking you to try and think this way 26. It's not good to break this over our feet today, or to have no real solution in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5472	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov. It's about the first reading that you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5473	Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs. Although here the report has practically tied three points of the agenda and quite logically, because the law on successions, the concession funds are also intended to enter into budget rebalancing, I want to actually look at you only to the third point of the agenda that proposed the law on succession. I must say, I have closely followed the presentation of the predecessors of our distinguished colleague, who presented the report to the Finance and Budget Commission, but the amendments that I have received clearly states that the amendments to the Law on the Purpose and Use of Assets which Bosnia and Herzegovina received through the agreement on the issues of the former Yugoslavia's succession, and in the agenda we have quite one text that is not in that sense. A few economic experts who have actually discussed here and to say that in terms of the monetary difference between these two visions, funds in... one medium, and funds in successions at the level of the former Yugoslavia. It seems to me that they're wider, so the numbers are somewhat different. I am very glad that this point is given in the first reading and cannot be taken from the impression that something that represents ours to say shared property, something that represents the property of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is obtained by the succession of the former Yugoslavia with these proposed solutions is put in good part of the day-to-day budget to say the needs, although objectively and primarily we should go to development projects that will allow me to say and self-financing of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I understand all the reasons why we were brought into this situation into a time teat, and I know that the mass of it was impossible to do faster, so probably some economic solutions couldn't be offered better because of the circumstances in which we are working and everything that is behind us, but I must express my regret that we have been brought into a situation of several previous speakers has also pointed out that fact that something that is common to our heritage is questionable. If that's the only solution to what we're going to do. I would also ask that with all the delays we already have, to allow us these amendments that have now come, you know, there are 11 amendments. I would like to leave us room until the next Parliament session, which is otherwise scheduled at the Joint College 13-20, if we are already late this long, I would like to allow us to try to look at these amendments in a certain way. These amendments and some figures change within this whole project and keep this bill at this session at first reading level.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5474	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Cuplov, for the word he has the honourable representative, Vice-President Sead Avdić. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5475	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members, dear guests, I would also like to say a few words within point 3. It's the first reading, the discussion of principles, primarily related to the point of the agenda, it's the law on... the means of succession. Before that, he would point out the following, and it is objectively this house that strengthens the authority and simply strengthens the ingenuity of this home and in this context, by sticking to the Rules of Procedure, we expect the Council of Ministers to consider and be already, in the process, as soon as possible, the draft budget, i.e. the draft budget for 2002. On 15 October, the House of Representatives delivered to the House of Peoples already on 15 November the draft budget for 2002. But given the objective circumstances and the functioning and inability to reach a full budget rebalancing proposal, let us take this into account and, in this context, we expect that in December, in December of the month immediately after the rebalance, we will also receive a budget proposal for the following year. In this context, I support discussions that point to the problem of BiH institutions' functioning. The second thing I'm saying is that for the first time, we have a document that mentions the term development, development projects and investment in the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities. Which means that in this context an objectively one new stage or one new phase of Bosnia and Herzegovina's development and development, i.e. in the economic transition, we can say freely that we have found the strength to discuss both the development and formation and the extensive support of the formation of small medium-sized enterprises, the restructure of the basic energy sector of the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, everything that makes Bosnia and Herzegovina economic transition. We say we're wasting the legacy of our ancestors and that we shouldn't touch it. Logic at first sight correct. And those contradictions are ethically present with me. But the former state did leave us with these 158 million and 138 million in gold which in the means of succession. But she also left us debts. Debts that are more than multiple of these sequencing funds. How do we repay the debts we inherited? There's a question. How do we repay if we do not invest in the development of this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? First of all, simply by strengthening and reviving production and creating a prerequisite for creating a new value and creating an assumption that we can free ourselves of this 4.2 billion mark debt. If that's what we're considering, then I'm for development, and keeping leverage in banks that we're also spending money on, we can't afford it in this time. That's the problem, and in that context, sure as hell we haven't had, there's no simple feeling that we have another way out of this situation. This year we have not received donations, nor have we received donations from the international community, and that should be said. On the other hand, the international financial institution, in particular the IMF, points out and tells us that all resources should be invested in the repayment of debts, not in the development, which means the facts they warn, indicate that we are ahead of a sort of test here today. This is more than a game and more than an improvisation. So in this context, I am asking you to understand and understand the currentity of the time in which we live and in this context to try today and consider first reading and adopt these documents in contrast to the position of the Party for BiH which has already been shown on two occasions. I don't see what we could improve in the next 10 days. In development, much higher funds are invested, which is about 57 million, or 62 million marks. The funds will be allocated in accordance with the accession and control project by the Council of Ministers and I see no real reason to stop this process. Or if we're not going to freeze all the funds and leave it as a normal inheritance within 28 simply what it's called, or an heirloom from an absecction simply of the financial resources that we have. I ask you once again to accept with all the contradictions that are hidden in terms of terms, principles, and logically to accept the proposal for a law on the distribution of the means of succession and the principles that are hidden in this law, and we can later move on to details and amendments. What I'd like to suggest, not wanting to stop this process. Namely, only two entities of Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina are mentioned here. There is no third, it is not an entity, but the Brcko District is, and in that sense, I think it is necessary for these development projects to leave the Council of Ministers bound, in order not to intervene with the amendment that the Brcko District is more likely to simply take part from the grant funds. It's a normal logical simple thought that obliges the Council of Ministers to respect. So not only the Fedracija and the Republika Srpska, but also the Brcko District. I am convinced that the Council of Ministers will accept this suggestion that we would not define it by amendment in this context that we would not further burden the process of amendment interventions I propose that, apart from, after the first reading, if we should take a break and try to agree and continue our second reading and adopt today these three documents that are at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5476	I would like to thank Mr. Avdić's distinguished representative. Mr. Mirko Banjac's honorary representative has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5477	Honorable gentlemen, distinguished guests, I have no intention of discussing much, but I am experiencing this, this law as if when a man reaches for a sock in the house, where he hid it, so he came in urgent need to take it, because he was tormented. Or stricter, so there's one, so with a pillow and something like that. The rest of the funds were left behind, and the torment forced the legislators to spend them in such a way. I wouldn't even say he wants to, but he has to. It is better to say the sea, because this is the harsh reality of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which a break must be found in already, find a break in the already lost breath. Because time has passed, there is no economic growth, there is no income, there is nothing to live on and it reaches for a reserve that is only available as living resources. And gentlemen, personally, I wouldn't mind spending the money, but with something different. So, I'm not the one for sentimental spills here, mourning for what was and who left us, but I'm more for how we're gonna do tomorrow. Is there going to be any use for this tomorrow? What and how much? That we need a break, we need it. But I would be more happy and optimistic that the Council of Ministers at least in the opening presentation offered some kind of projection of development, a projection that will show that something good is going to happen with this kind of spending. I'm not in general, so I'm not against the law, but I am something for a changed approach. For example, it corresponds to me in Article 4, this point 3. It's credit funds, because when I say credit, then I expect it to come back. I expect that this will be our funds re-exploited by additional value, and I welcome it. But please, here too, this assembly should take part of responsibility when it approves this approach to the law to regulate itself and to commit the Council of Ministers to see and to present itself to the Assembly that will put these development projects into lending, in what way, how. Let's see if that's safe. Do we trust you? Is that gonna come back? If it won't be lost. 29 For why I didn't. I'm not that these funds go uncritically into consumption. For there is also one question that is clear and not too wise: what shall we do when we have spent? And spending is easy. That's why I'd be more inclined to keep these items in this division as indicated, but as a loan to the gentlemen. I wouldn't let this get so bad, but I'd ask for household business and a guarantee that this would come back to the state. To return, to consider what period and when, how, but to return. Let them stay as it says, although there are some items here that I can't, of course, can't be exacted in the law. This is the paragraph of Article 4(4), which is the coverage of the costs of the surplus for extraordinary activities. I don't know what emergency activities are now. You probably know what extraordinary activities these are. Well, here's a mistake with me. Okay. Next activity. Okay, well, that's clear. Then, here unallocated funds, obviously there's something extra left, but why not set it up, which is not in item 3. Let's say I'm interested. Let it be done, entrenched, but with good projects with what might be useful. I am therefore essentially to leave these items even as they are, but except for item 3 which is perfectly clear to go, with the view of transferring item 6 to item 3. let's say, he added these funds. But he would ask the Council of Ministers, especially with paragraph 3 and others I said should go as loans to return the entity's budgets to the Council of Ministers for taking a break. Let them find if they have a projection of development, if they have a projection of the start-up of economy, economy, so let them find and return, and let them now. And then he would ask the Council of Ministers to draw up a plan to discuss the means of succession and to do so to users, structures and purposes, with precise measures on how to get those same funds to Bosnia and Herzegovina again. That's what I'd like and here's what you consider my humble contribution to this debate. The plan would give him such importance, given that this is about important state resources. He would raise to that level if he were adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5478	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. Since no one's answering again. Well, come in on time. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Buturović. If anyone else wants it to be a first reading, let them sign up. When we say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5479	I'll, as always, be brief. I won't be long. Since I've answered it once before. I would talk here about all three points of the agenda. It's all tied up.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5480	But only in the first reading. Obviously.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5481	I don't want much, just about principles. Maybe it's us. Since we are certainly unique in Europe not to say in the world by this constitution of our state apparatus. Perhaps it is my appeal that, in the next budget and the next creation of 30 rational and economic states, we take little care of the rationalization of this civil apparatus both entity and state. To make a more efficient and functional state with fewer officials, and thus lower wages. The other thing I wanted to say is about the funds from the succession. Since the assets of our former state, dedicated enterprises in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina prior to the war, I think they participated in the creation of this good former state in a strong degree. Now, the problems of the dedicated industry, I once asked a question I never got an answer to, are highly indicated in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so here I would suggest that it be taken care of, that these large enterprises, i.e. companies that had a lot of employees, and now very little or almost nothing, take care of the allocation of these funds in some way not to give them the means as if they were given away and nothing more, but to restructure their programmes and to create some new ways of organising some new production, but therefore they need certain funds. So here's what I'd like to appeal to be taken care of. It means enterprises of the dedicated industry at the level of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5482	I would like to thank Mr. Buturović, the honourable representative. Is anyone else picking up? If there is no answer, I'll conclude the hearing by point 3. It is, then, the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the assets that Bosnia and Herzegovina has received under the Agreement on Sucession issues in the bank for international settlements in Basel. First reading. I think we can plead yes. __________________: I apologize. Don't say that. There were a few suggestions here that, from the dispute to... [[no microphone, from place]] Right in front of the Council of Ministers, Minister Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5484	Several proposals have been tabled in the debate that could question the very basis of this proposed law. So I'd like to say that what Bosnia and Herzegovina inherited in the succession of the former SFRY mostly represents obligations. So about $2 billion of the debt that we're taking today was the subject of the London and Paris Agreement and that we're paying off today, and as a decoration, some of these lags also appeared. So no sentimentality of any assessment that it's something someone left us, I don't think those grades have any basis and they're economically unsustainable. I simply think that all of the axles should try to activate, most of them should be directed towards development. When it comes to selling gold, you have two approaches. A traditionalist approach that still believes in gold validity and foreign reserves is based on gold. Gold is like any other commodity subject to market fluctuations. It relatively loses its importance and a new approach in monetary reserves is mainly based on economy, economic health. You know that 71 31 years under Nixon's government has practically ceased to apply, and since then no one has spoken of gold as the basis of any money, but above all, economic reality, economic growth, growth perspectives, etc. I'll just give you the information that last month the dollar jumped back to its value after official data was released that traffic was 7% higher in October than in September. And that raised the value of the dollar. Nothing else. Don't be trapped by the old Breton Butts performances of 1944 when a golden validity was introduced as some coercional measure. So much for that. Let's not lamintise these are not rational, they are not economically justified reasons and if we give the answer, then what Dr Kovačević said will be the basis. So now, we have a very solid base of KM in EURU, i.e. in conversion currencies, there will be a dollar, there will be others, there will be a EURO, most of the dollar and EURO. We will have our exchange rate related to EURO, therefore there is no effect on selling this gold at any cost or content to our future, the future of our KM. And if we start some economic growth from that money, we'll also have a fortune in factories and facilities. First of all, we will have psychological expectations that this country is going to economic growth. So I think most of the proposal was just about this and I don't think there's any reason to question this proposal. Other suggestions were as I understood they were related to how money was used. We have a large part of the misunderstanding in that you have a law that was sent two months or a month and a half ago, and we also speak as a promoter I was talking about the Law on Guidelines actually to amend the law within the meaning of the agreement that we had at the Coordination Body for Economic Development on 25 November when and with the leaderships of entities, the entity governments agreed on a new approach to regulation, the distribution of property obtained by succession. It is essential that these funds for economic development must be profitable and we will find ways to ensure that this is strictly implemented and that all projects that will be maintained ensure self-sustainability. profitability positive cashflow etc. In any case, institutions managing these funds will have priority, i.e. they will be acceptable and vice versa. And the discussion on this subject, I think, is premature, except for the principle that it must be sustainable projects that return money, increase and ensure the integrity of money for development. The Brcko District will certainly be on ours, located in concepts of the use of development funds, but I wouldn't go to that now we're detaching some parts of the District. Simple companies from Brcko District will appear as candidates through various institutions that will place these funds and I think they can use the funds anyway. As a matter of fact, I think that the proposal from Avdić's representative is entirely justified. We must not neglect the Brcko District companies and they will be covered by these proposals anyway. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5485	I thank Mr. Domazet. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Banjac. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5486	I wouldn't answer if I got an answer to my proposal. I didn't get the answer. So I didn't slow down any gestures about the distribution of funds, but I asked them not to go into the free consumption sphere, but to be given as a loan. As much as I would have here right now, even though I'm not an economist, I could simply make a few suggestions to keep those funds in a separate account and to keep telling them to keep coming back, from there they keep investing. It's unacceptable for me to spend about half the funds on a non-refundable basis. It would be gentlemen to say not only a non-democratic move, but it would also be an undeserved aid to the current Council of Ministers to move you from a dead end and to wonder what will happen in a year when others come and how we will push them in the same way. I'd like to help you through this way, to make it a loan. To be a loan to the entities for the purposes you've predicted, but please get those funds back. That these funds remain as a permanent base for using in the never-ending opportunities and for God's sakes, or to remain intervening and in terms of investments, in terms of lending new programmes and projects. That was my suggestion. If you gentlemen think it's not good, it's something else. I'd also like to hear an explanation why this isn't good. I don't argue, so I'm not a supporter of keeping money on the account with any, the money is least worth it when it's lying down. I'd like to turn around and benefit from that. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5487	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bjelobrk, and let the honourable representative, Mr. Kovačević, be prepared. It's a long time to four we'll all be there.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5488	Dear Ministers, I would like to ask you in the turn of Mr Lolić's initiative some other distinguished colleagues. I'm zainteresovan as a possible amendment promoter to make it clear to us correctly, and I must also admit that I didn't get that information. Why can't these funds in the concept be treated as a return fund, let's say (Rivenbach) fund or any other form, because there's one very reasonable intensities in the esteemed colleagues so that we can enable the placements, but in a way that this state uses these funds in the future as a single permanent development fund and thus join it with a possible redistribution in the current engagement. I'd like to ask you for a more precise explanation. I think it deserves attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5489	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bjelobrk. Before the word takes Mr. Kovačević's esteemed representative, I would have warned you here, we forget some things. There is another possibility here if the Council of Ministers withdraws this law and it is something else to do. We received a report from the Commission on the 28th where the amendments were made. I don't see how we can talk about this proposal now, only if we suggest that the Council of Ministers withdraw this law. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr Kovačević. If the College approves. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5490	Dear MPs, I have to replicate to my esteemed colleague Domazet for a reason he has marketing access to money, and I have a monetaryist approach. You all know it, it's familiar to me you wouldn't want, although Mr. Domazet didn't think that I didn't know that money was a commodity, but I was talking about it being the best quality of goods that turned the most into money and which is the most stable goods. So that's what I think it means, and I know that the golden rule of validity is as the basis for issuing bills that it's abandoned. We also know that stable conditions are a condition of currency stability and a good economy. That it doesn't have to be gold's bracelets now, but I'm not about to turn the best quality goods into money and go into consumption, that percent there into pensions, that's what I was talking about, Mr. Minister. I thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5491	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. The word has an esteemed representative, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5492	Honored chairman, respected members of the presidency, colleagues, MPs, ladies and guests. I don't think you'll mind, and here I am going to tell you a story read by kids in first grade primary school. I'm going to make it very simple, and I think we can meet in that story. The man went to the store every morning and bought three breads or breads as anyone said and then once the seller asked him why he took three. And the man answers - one returns the debt, so he buys his parents, one buys for my family, my wife and myself, and one says I lend. So he gives as long as he has, to the next generations he expects when they come to his stage that he will have that debt. So in this case, when it comes to these means of succession, I think we can meet in that story. Once we pay back our debts, one we work to survive, and one we leave behind through the projects through the rest. And we know when someone's saving money or gold. When the process is over and it provides its family and home and a normal and orderly life, and what remains is kept for a better future or keeps, if God doesn't need it. We're at this point that we needed it, but something to leave. Therefore, there are also reasons here for discussion and reasons, or ways to find agreement. As far as the project is concerned, I agree, but to give the Council of Ministers a task in what way, although this should now be considered business. It is likely that Parliament will also be able to decide on where these funds will go and how they will be given whether through credit, whether through some other means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5493	I thank the esteemed Mr. Blibija. Is anyone else answering for a word? Mr Lagumdžija chairman has the word. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5494	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, Minister Domazet will certainly have a lot of opportunities and in a second reading of concrete remarks to answer. I'm obliged to this occasion since you're discussing three points, regardless of what some have talked about one, but less when you're talking about one you're objectively talking about all three. Because these are still related things. Since several conceptual and strategic issues are connected here. This is the first reading. I'm obliged to say a few words on the subject. To remind you, the Council of Ministers is Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Hadžiahmetović, has exhibited here the Global Framework for Economic Strategy, which is the Global Framework for Economic Strategy, this Council of Ministers. Parliament has not adopted this, this is what Parliament has come to know because it is such a Rules of Procedure, but I think that is what we are moving on about. So we have strategic documents of this kind. We have also defined some elements of the implementation of such a programme as part of our activities in the Council of Ministers within the Committee on Economic Development and European Integration in cooperation with entity prime ministers and competent ministers. Let me remind you, we based all of this on one very dreary picture of the condition we have. We did all this before 9/11, and on September 11th, he gave several additional elements to which no one on the planet counted, so neither did this council of ministers. Let me just say that in the last few weeks, things have changed dramatically in the world economy, not just in terms of what gold is, but here I remind you that the developing countries that have been planning to grow in the next year are expected to have a lower growth of 5.8%, and we belong to these developing countries, unfortunately, highly developed countries, precisely because they are highly developed, so they can't grow so fast. The developing world is planned that in 2002, we started with these assumptions when we created, this wasn't sucked out of the finger, and this wasn't done on principle whether we wanted 12 of us or 14 there. I want to meet Parliament, it was even an idea in agreement with the Presidency, the leadership of Parliament. We had one idea even in the Council of Ministers to do one closed session, to introduce members of Parliament to the overall economic situation in the world and to our strategic directions that we need to know between ourselves. It may not be a thing to throw away in any other situation that, but we've given up on it because we think it would be good if, in the framework of the committees, we could have a serious debate between ourselves to get to know each other where we're going for the next 2, 5 or 10 years. Because those of us who sit here for the next two, five and ten years, if health serves us, none of us will all be power or opposition for 10 years. Some of us are going to change that a little bit, a little bit, and at least we owe it to know some global image of all the atoms. We as responsible people, since we now have more insight into this information we are obliged to transfer some things here, but to remain still for our use. So, we're leaving, we're starting from the fact that the growth of social products in developing countries with 5.8 plans in the following year is estimated at 2.2 in the following year. The developing countries are about, when it comes to their export product, which are raw materials, what we are very dependent on is expected. You know that we mostly export something that is raw, including raw materials, ex-forest. That the value of raw materials on the world market will fall by around 40% to a large extent for the next year for two days as a result of September 11th. As a result of September 11th, economic growth in this and next year will be somewhere in the European Union around practically 35 developed countries in the smallest in 20 recent years, including the United States. The OECD countries, not the OSCE, where we are, but the OECD, countries of the highly developed European Union of America, Japan, Canada in the last quarter of this year will have a negative growth of social product. It's perfectly natural in such a situation that we've come from assuming, you know, by the end of this year we need, Ante spoke, Minister Domazet was talking about the debts that they are. We're supposed to pay back about $70 million this year, the next year's projections are going to be even rougher about 100 million on the way. In 2003 about 110, 2004 about 110 at this level of duty, in 2005 we return to about 90, then 2006. 70 and that part is held by 2010, if we don't move. So for the next 2-3 years, we're going to have an even stronger impact on the situation in which the economy will follow. That's what you need to know. Also, I'm obliged to tell you, I think those are the assumptions that we've come from. We based our development on no matter who comes as the Council of Ministers to keep their heads above the surface, that somewhere in the next few years, they start to return successfully to the social product that we had in the '90s. So the projection that by 2010, there were two, short-term parts of 2005 and 2010. We will have to keep the growth of the social product somewhere to about 6% on average by 2010, which is a huge effort for a country to stay above the surface. We expect that by 2005, exports should increase from the current 12 to about 16% year-on-year. We can't handle these numbers without it. Investments will have to be held that 20% of the social product that should grow where we have to carry out a radical restructuring of these investments so as to say in a certain way that with some 16% of the investments that are now going into public spending of 20 to bring it down to about 11% in public consumption, and mostly investment is what is not public spending. Also our projection is based on that the trade deficit in the next, we couldn't plan on further, over the next three years we cut from some 21% of the social product to some 11% of the social product. These parameters you can't keep saying so, and if we keep them as a whole they can make sense and hold water. Otherwise, about two months ago, I saw the president of a country taking pictures before the elections in front of his country's gold reserves. And I think that's also something that can be done. And it probably looks very nice visually. Otherwise, the country is a country that will remain behind us because it has not yet been admitted to the Council of Europe. The country's name is Belarus, the president's name is Vukašenko. And that's the way of thinking. It must have its own effect on popularity. I don't doubt that at all. But we need to clarify here what we mean by the development project. We have to say under development projects we don't mean consumption. Everything that is set aside for development around 80% is planned to actually end through concrete programmes, not that this parliament, or the god of the Council of Ministers, or entity governments determine what this will be project, but that they create miles and a framework in which the lowest entrepreneurial level will be, register with these projects, and already there are whole mechanisms. If someone is interested, Minister Domazet can also talk about it if Parliament wants to, as they are planning to practically increase those funds as funds that will be funds for the cheaping of capital for the entrepreneurs, and not that we here say 100 million we will put in this region, 50 in that region, and now Parliament weighs it. It's not done anywhere on the planet. It's not done in any country, not in North Korea. And we simply thought that by means of development we were thinking about the means that should be cheap. Why did we start with the cheap stuff? Because we've been working recently, we've done a good analysis of the results of the study done with 36 international financial institutions of the World Bank, the European Development Bank and the European Union that talked about what restrictions they are, why people don't invest anymore. Why doesn't a foreign direct investor come here anymore? In the first place, funding comes first. We've defined four cannons, four major barriers for foreign investors. First it's finance, expensive loans. Look, credits aren't made cheap by, you know, neither the International Monetary Fund nor if they wanted to, because the state can't... with cheap loans because the cost of credit means less financial discipline. I mean, it's simple, and if we wanted to give someone a loan of 2, 3% interest, we can't do that. So there are mechanisms for how it can be done. Since the biggest barrier was expensive financing to foreign investors, we felt that these mechanisms should allow this barrier to be reduced first. To make loans cheaper. But there are mechanisms to allow whether I think they are expert, there is no need to explain to the Council of Ministers, not even within some ministry, let alone Parliament to enter such details. But that's the first strategic goal. The second strategic objective is to reduce taxes because it is another barrier that appears, and it is precisely these projects that should be developmental when it comes to development, it must be. The third is political instability. We need to increase political stability. I retati in the end why we proposed this in the context of political stability. The fourth isn't that important for this debate, it's infrastructure, but let's let it go now. Since there's a lot of people here talking about this one psychosis that we're getting into. That these are some kind of assets that have now been guarded for decades, and now they're suddenly traveling. I would ask you that if we already want to talk in some matching categories, imagine by which case we now feel like someone whose father left the house, a nice big house, a small cottage, and a lot of debts that cost about an orderly size of about 8-9 of those houses and cottages. Now watch out. Now that he's left you fine, you can give up your family and that's the solution. We haven't thought about those categories, I have to admit. So, what can you do? You can do it under 1. You can sell the house with your own free will, sell that cottage and pay you back a part of the debt and tell you I'll come back seven more houses and a cottage, and then since you're a schooled man, you'll hire for a salary and tell your baby, your granddaughter, that you know you'll have to work with him for that and that kind of pay, and don't worry about 17 generations you'll get it back. It's a variant a. It can, if that's the deal, we can do it by our own free will. The variants b. which we can also sell with our own will, to pay off some of the debts, to show that we are serious people that, that the cottage is not our most important problem right now, to invest our knowledge, our work and our entrepreneurship by making it possible, on the basis of these cottages, to start some business and to know best and to do our best, and to try to pay back those debts as soon as possible and to leave the house and to leave it and the possibility that there will be some business that will be able to make it back from our work and our knowledge. That's another solution. We opted for the other one. You know, if we don't make a deal, there's a third solution. The third solution is called, since you haven't figured out what you're going to do with the house, the debt, the family with the dead parents, then the court comes in fine, sells the house, the cottage, forced to charge it, hangs you on the board. I doubt you'll get a job then. So if we don't agree on this third one, we'll follow. I guess I've been a little bit of a mess, but 37's very clear. And we decided to have an active relationship, try to act like someone who's grateful to his parents for getting that house and that cottage, and the debts, so I guess his parents knew why and he didn't do it himself, and it seems like he's been going through generations. And that's why, in the end, since it was concrete here, that's why we can't talk about the plans that would go to Parliament, because then that would sound and it would be something that's practical that can't even allow the IMF, which means that we in Parliament are going to determine which firm to buy that isn't. So these aren't the mechanisms to do that. But I want to say that this part of development is what Boro would say and the revolving part. And as for the 2002 budget, we're going to take it as, I think it's a good conclusion, but I'm obliged to tell you that we got a letter, I got it at the capacity of the Council of Ministers chairman together with entity prime ministers in which the International Fund Mission, the monetary one, is coming with us to run the negotiations, as they say two stages on next year's budgets. The dynamics are approximately next – they expect us to adopt a rebalancing process for 2001 by the end of November and adopt this which is the means of succession, so that there will be no forced payment and all of it; in mid-December, they will come to the week-long talks that would lead to the 2002 budgets in the post of arrival to the Stendbaje arrangement, preferably by the spring of next year; that in mid-January, the Executive Committee of the World Bank and the IMF will consider what they would find here in December; that somewhere in early February, the Executive Board of the IMF and the World Bank will end up with us in the second round of talks on the Standaj arrangement, having in mind and a budget projection for 2002 which they would then be working and that somewhere in March the Executive Board of the IMF and the World Bank accept such a thing as the Stendaj arrangement, the basis for it and for us at a time when we can adopt on the basis of a year 2002. That's our plan we want to say here, and since Mr. Domazet was already talking about the triangle of the entity, BiH, the IMF that triangle is actually a square. Anto was nice. It's the Council of Ministers, one entity, another entity and the IMF. Because the entity governments both and the Council of Ministers act as three points in space and the IMF is fourth. Our idea was to have two points. We and the IMF. And that's why we're doing all of this, so be assured with the full seriousness that none of us can think of the fact that we're insinuating what's so painfully gathered here. And as for these companies, it should have been sold. Whoever's able to sell for this money, the companies, not to bid them now the names that were mentioned here, good luck to him. In this country, unfortunately, there are very few companies that anyone wants to buy for the money we'd like. And these companies can probably count on the fingers of one hand. In other words, I don't have to talk about those other firms, especially bid them names, because their numbers are very small. I just came by to tell you that you have in mind that we, with full seriousness, know what we're doing. We're aware of the situation we're in, we're aware that stopping situations like this means nothing but a forced administration, and then there won't be any houses or cottages, or gold normally. Heostaći Vukašenko on the horizon as a perspective.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5495	I thank the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdzija. I note that we are at first reading about this law and we will need to make a statement at the end of this point of the agenda, and yet we still have the possibility that it will be able to do Article 94(3) in accordance with Article 94(3). – if there are new aspects which the Commission could not take into account that it means and then may respect the amendments. Is there anyone else before the statement of principles? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5496	I'm glad we talked like this. This has really become Parliament, but I think it has a solution. Mr. Banjac took it out. So we're all so we don't have to waste money. I would accept as some alternative solution exactly what it means to be able to give the PIU, but as a loan or as a loan and that the PIA Fund if they are obliged to return within a period of not knowing if it is a year, two days it must return. And then we set up there, if we already have good executives, well done, if we don't have the right ones to put it back. I think it's a transitional solution and that we can still be satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5497	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Lolić. This will need to be an amendment and when we vote on phase two, normally these are the new circumstances that are. ...talk from the scene. Please don't do that, it's about principles, Mr. Chairman, and the principle is whether, how to spend funds. It's a principle. I want it defined. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5500	Be careful what it's about. I'm sorry. I'm not comfortable. Why do you avoid answering the question? It's a key question, a key problem. Gentlemen, it's about principle. Instead of spending the loan. It's a principle. That's the principle of who, who needs to vote on exactly what to vote on. And now I, if it isn't accepted as a principle, won't vote. I'm not. So I'm to turn the funds around, help them, give them, so they don't lie down. Let's let it go where they are, how they are, what they are. But, please, if the bill promoter accepts the principle of borrowing, even some entities under very, very favourable circumstances, those funds that go to credit, I absolutely support them, and in the end, that was my wish. It's about 84 million going into lending, as far as I'm concerned, 30 million being what Mr. Lolic is now and Mr. Lolić's story is, I suggest you don't go as grants, but as a loan. So those funds allocated to the unscheduled also go to the fund, that point 3 for the lending. If that's possible. Of course we do now, you don't have to be mad at us. You've left some time. There was no space, we got the final text of the law on the bench today, and I understand that, and I didn't come here to criticize but I came here to talk. So, Mr. Chairman, if it takes 10 minutes for the Council of Ministers to define and accept whether or not they accept it, if they don't accept that I can plead. Don't put us in a position where I don't know what I'm pleading on. I'd like to know. Here, I hope no one is angry here, no reason at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5501	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Banjac. Does Minister Domazet want to explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5502	Since I've been working long with the AMMF I'm going to try to right now, including their logic to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5503	Don't answer that. We're interested specifically in whether you respect this. Are those principles?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5504	For the Banjac representative's question, I think the lending of debts related to entity budgets and the BiH institutions' budget is out of the question. Because it is not to solve the problem of cleaning up old debts and obligations, and it is to create obligations again only on some longer basis. So, not clearing up the state of insistence and what we end up having to do. As far as development funds are concerned, these development funds are, the development funds must be maintained in an integrated form. So we can do it at the Council of Ministers' level that we have united, but we have to dislocate, I think the principle is to dislocate competences for the management of these funds. Decisions on these assets at entity level for one specific volume of those funds, and if we say that these assets must be in an entity-level integrated form, that is to say. But I think about that second part of the problem, meaning the means of development that this principle would be enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5505	I thank the Minister, Mr. Domazet. Is Mr. Banjac's esteemed representative satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5506	I'm not satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5507	So what do we do? We're voting on principles. Does anyone else want a word before voting on the principles of this law? He doesn't want to. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5508	Mr. Mario. I think we're clear. I don't know, I'm afraid we don't just stay if we don't understand each other. Mr. Banjac is here, because here you know it's too complex matter and it's quite logical that often when we talk that we don't think about the same things. So I want to put aside the possibility of any misunderstanding that you thought one thing, answer me another. There are here, let's call it two groups of funds. One asset is defined as 17 plus 34 million for the old obligations of entities going back to, through the state to say mostly through the state channel. Let's call him that on foreign loans, according to earlier loans. Could those funds be a loan? Minister Domazet made it clear that these funds can't be loans. So what we are now determined to do for old obligations such as obligations towards international financial institutions is 8 million, the debt of earlier 4 million, 4 and 600 and 51 million with 34 + 17 for the obligations of entity budgets that are largely in line with the practical obligations of BiH. For that part of the question, could it be a loan? I can tell you my answer to Minister Domazet, you each here reasonable. It would be good if it could, unfortunately it can't be a loan under the relevant international financial institution rules. It's very simple work. So that's why he can't. Not because we wouldn't want to, but in other words, we can, we can agree that you know what they told you. You can be in and out now. But it's just like that. So are we. So that part doesn't allow. Wait a minute, wait a minute, that part won't allow. So that's about the amount of about 20% of the total projected funds, but since it's certainly an old obligation there's no reason to cheat, we cheat ourselves, because it's an early payment of money from before and it's not disputed. What we can agree here as a principle and what we can do as a Council of Ministers if I say so exists here, because these funds really need to go in the way that we all want together, and that's these resources that are for the development of what you say no matter where they are that these funds have to be given on a credit basis so that they are in a function of development as something we're not going to spend, but to stick to as mechanisms, and if that's your amendment we are, just to be very clear. Our intention was to do this, but if you think it should be precise by law, we can make it very simple to make it clear, and if that solves the misunderstandings at the level of this Parliament, I think we have made a huge shift. Our idea is back and that's why these misunderstandings that were, I figured out what it was about. That's why I made this metaphor. You conditioned Mr. Banjac that cottage, we can't borrow it, we have to justify it. There. And the rest can be borrowed. And we can see ourselves now in what way, if you accept this as a principle, we can say this in one good will to go through this way and then in another right now, we can see what amendment means to define it and to move on. Do I make myself clear?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5509	I thank the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdzija. So we can plead first row on the principles of this law with this supplement. 41 Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that means we passed this law in the first reading with 35 votes, better tell everyone. Now if you agree and if you consider that there are conditions, there have been talks here about the possibility of moving on to another reading, so that we adopt this law along with this amendment, which means we MPs support it to be an integral part of the text. Is there anyone who thinks otherwise, that we shouldn't go to another reading, because we're going to have to make a statement? Is that why we're here? So I suggest the conclusion that not only until I propose, means the conclusion that the House of Representatives declares that it is going to another reading on this bill that I am not reading it further. Is there a need for someone before this? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5510	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to take a break from the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina Club for 10 minutes. I think there's a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5511	It means 10 minutes and then we move on, and this amendment is made. So we need to be clear about that conclusion that the Dom means to reach the conclusion that we should move on to another reading of this law under point 3. That's right. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I understand that we've adopted a conclusion unanimously with 35 votes in favour. So we're moving on to another reading under this law. We had those amendments discussed by the Commission, which became an integral part of the text. We had one amendment that the Council of Ministers accepted. Is that correct, we need more procedures on that amendment? But here we have to vote on the amendment since it has not been discussed by the Commission, is no one. Who's for the amendment Mr. Banjac's distinguished representative suggested? Who's up for another one? Thank you. Do you mind? No abstentions? I cannot konstatirati that with 35 votes for the amendment it was adopted unanimously. 42 So, is there any need and debate about this law? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. drag Stanimirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5512	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen MPs, since this second reading is allow me to give you just a very brief explanation in front of the promoter regarding these 11 amendments that you have already received during the session. Good if there's a general agreement on accepting okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5513	So we're continuing the debate. Is anyone else answering for word? I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make a statement. So the second is reading on the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of the property that Bosnia and Herzegovina has received under the Agreement on Stakeholder Affairs in the Bank for International Alignment in Basel. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that 32 MPs voted in favour and this law was passed unanimously. Thank you. We're moving on to Ad. 4. The proposal for amending and supplementing the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina is also a matter of first row at the moment of first reading. We got an explanation at the previous point. Some MPs discussed it. I'm opening a debate. Is there a need? If there is no need, I propose that we conclude the debate and make a statement means in the first reading of the principles on which this proposal was made to amend and supplement the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that with 32 votes it means that we unanimously adopted this proposal to amend and supplement the law in the first reading. Now I would like to invite you, if you consider that there is a possibility, a willingness and a need, perhaps the need exists, to move on to another reading about this law. Is there a word before we know the need to move on to another reading? If it doesn't, I suggest. The word has a respected representative, Mr Jovanović. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5514	Well, I'll just take a minute. I don't think we all have the same material. I mean, we need to get some really refined texts so we can vote. I see here that there are different materials. The one I was talking about is now and he sees someone else, and I really don't know what to vote on right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5515	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Jovanović. This can't be where we discuss different materials. It is that there were different materials, but they came by dates. Well, just to compare, if it's not something, I'm asking from the service that with Mr. Jovanović, to see that he's not some text with an older date. It was a correction. Normally, you have it in your report. Please mean, if Mr. Jovanović doesn't have an accident report to submit the report. Is anyone else picking up? I'm formulating a conclusion. So I propose that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina draws its conclusion that we move to a second reading on this proposal on amendments and additions to the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? I cannot konstatirati that, unanimously with 31 votes, we have adopted the conclusion that we should move to a second reading on this point 4 of the proposal to amend and supplement Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' budget and international obligations for 2001. So we're opening a second reading debate. Who's answering for a word? You know there have been amendments adopted by the Commission here. These are the signs of amendments and the promoter has accepted. So these are the amendments, distinguished gentlemen of MPs Mrs. Začiragić and Mr. Malkić. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5516	Dear gentlemen, I'll try to speak briefly. I hope that's understandable. What stabs me in the eye like this in what I have in front of me is the fact that the highest percentage of the increase is on items of expenditure on material and services and contracted services. You know what? I understand that item. There you can put whatever you can't put elsewhere. But there you can put whatever you want no one to see what you put there. And that percentage moves over 100% of the increase. I can't accept that as a fact that you've really missed so much. I'm asking you, this is 12 months, we need to adopt this rebalance and I'm aware of that. I accept that. But we are on the Commission, I don't know why the chairman of the Commission hasn't already and said that the analytical breakdown of these points is clear to understand that Parliament will and has the right to see what is hidden in those paragraphs. We don't have time for this, and let's make it 44. But I am asking you at least as an MP in the next period if God would have us back together again, and if we were God for a year at least, we could never accept these items again to appear and take it as a well-intentioned criticism and don't think that we don't know that there's a lot of things that you might care about not being seen. The second thing I want to say is that both as a man and as an MP, I do not accept that any service of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being allocated to funds beyond the material, or financial opportunities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know how it's said in the people when you give someone money above objective possibilities. I think it's quite clear what it's called. And that's what you do here. Let me just tell you that this has become a practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina when they want to achieve results there (it is oiled) where at all costs someone has an interest in putting it. This is the situation we have in the entity judiciary, we have in the judiciary at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have in the Border Service, we have in the school of Brcko District. So we've got a few segments, and here we have here with us, and the direct here is bothering us with the border service. I'm asking everyone if you're forced to put this on. You refuse to put that on. Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions cannot pay for something beyond their capabilities, nor do they have needs. He who is well-intentioned Bosnia and Herzegovina will accept working for a salary that is objectively possible under these circumstances. Anyone who isn't ready to accept that, he shouldn't even be working. That's what I mean from the MPs and beyond. You don't have to answer me. And don't answer me, I know the answer. It's clear to me that you didn't put it on but that someone said you had to put it that way. But say hello to whoever told you and tell them that the MPs know that's the way it is and that we don't accept it, and that at least as a man, I will never accept it, regardless of the consequences, consider me this or that, but you gentlemen see this well and you know it. Don't do this and there's no need, all of us who live here care that Bosnia and Herzegovina in the context of what they are, under the circumstances of what they are going forward, but it won't be able to move forward if the items of the budget appear more and more exceptional for certain national or other bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5517	I would like to thank Mr. Mirko Banjac, the esteemed representative. Is anyone answering, if you do. Mr Malkić's esteemed representative came forward for the word. Anyone else want one? Since we have another 10 minutes to work, let's adopt at least 3-4 points more.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5518	I'm pleased with the accepted amendment. But when I look at these tables structurally, I can't see it in the tables. Therefore, this conclusion of the Presidency, I suggest that in point 1 below b), a sentence is added in the last sentence. To form a new item number 3.2. so that it is a programme for Srebrenica, so that this amount is 500 support for the return of refugees and displaced persons, paragraph 3.1, to be 2,827.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5519	We didn't seem to understand each other. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5520	I understand you're forming a new item.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5521	I'm not talking about an item that talks about reception centers, I'm talking about a project to support the return of refugees and displaced people.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5522	For the purposes of this
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5523	4.2. The dedicated structure of current grants of budget users, from there to get out and to indicate the Srebrenica Project as a special item.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5524	I understand you, but I want it to be 3.1. and 3.2 at the same point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5525	I didn't specify 3.2.1, but I said as a special item Project Support.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5526	But I'd like it to be 3.2.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5527	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Malkić. I think the most important thing is that it's a commitment, it's a technical question that will be agreed upon. Is anyone else picking up? If it does not report the debate, and I suggest we make a statement on point 4. It is the proposal to amend and supplement the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2000. That, then, is the second reading final for us. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? - 1 Based on the results of the vote, I find that from 31, who voted 30 votes in favour, without voting against 1 abstention. So, a proposal for an amendment and addition of the BiH institutions budget, etc. was adopted. I thank and move on to agenda 5. Ad.5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2001. It's a first reading. Dear gentlemen had the opportunity to discuss and hear the report. Does anyone want to discuss the bill? If not, I suggest we plead to this law in the first reading, principles. 46 Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that we have passed this law in the first reading in principle with 31 votes for, without votes against and without abstentions. So unanimous. Thank you. I suggest, if you feel that we can support it and if you don't mind us making a statement that we accept that the bill at today's session is being considered in the second reading and that we adopt it, since we've adopted these before. Is there any need to vote on the conclusion? There isn't. Who's to conclude? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I agree that with 31 votes for, therefore, we unanimously adopted the Amendments and Supplements Bill on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions Budget and the International Obligations of BiH for 2001. Thank you. That's the end of the fifth point. I suggest we try the continuity to finish 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5528	We just voted to go to another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5529	Yeah, yeah, okay. This is so we don't have to do it later. I suggest we finish two more points and then go split up and continue to be when there's a new session. I suggest we open a second reading debate on this law. Is anyone picking up? We're closing. There are no amendments. Who's in favour of the Pred Long Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I agree that we unanimously adopted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations for 2001. Thank you. We're going to the sixth point. Ad.6. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on a single text of the Personal Data Protection Act You have received a report from the Joint Commission. As you have seen, an agreement has been reached on the unique text of the Personal Data Protection Act. So we shouldn't even be discussing here. We only put it to the vote, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, Joint Commission report. 47 So, we note, the Commission had an obligation under this and some other laws and this one ended and I think it would be good for us to complete this procedure. Is there a need for someone to discuss it? There isn't. I suggest we come forward with a report from the Joint Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I agree with 31 who voted in favour of 31 means, and we unanimously adopted the Joint Commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on a single text of the Personal Data Protection Act, and therefore we have completed the procedure for this law. Thank you. Moving to 7. It's a part of the agenda. Ad.7. A report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the amendments of the House of Peoples to the draft law on BiH associations and foundations on this law reminds you that the House of Peoples has adopted amendments to the bill. In accordance with Article 99(2.), Psolovnik, the amendments were discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission of our home, which is responsible for this legislative proposal. You have received a report from the Commission. Does the chairman of the committee have a need to explain? You got the report. There's no need. Since the Constitutional and Legal Commission has informed the House that it amends the House of Peoples to Articles 1 and 29. The bill does not change the essence of the law, and that they can become an integral part of the same law. I am putting the Commission's report to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I find that we unanimously with 31 votes to adopt the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. This ended the process of this draft law on BiH associations and foundations, for which there was a great need. So this is the end of the 7th agenda. Given that we've been working very actively and effectively today, I suggest that we finish today, that the sequel be, and the next 18th session in time from 13th to 20th. Thank you for your cooperation. The seat was interrupted at 4:30. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5530	MPs, honored guests, continue the 17th session of the House of Representatives. I welcome all present. 36 MPs attend the sitting. The absence was justified by: Zoran Spasojević, Mirko Banjac, Mirko Mijatović, Tihomir Gligorić, colleague Filipović Mediha, as you know, BiH's ambassador to Sweden and has taken over the duty, remains the question of replacing MPs and is not present and has not announced the absence of Mr Amor Mašović. The session was suspended on the 8th item of the agenda, which reads: The proposal for conclusions on the discussion of BiH institutions' activities in the fight against terrorism. As you know, at the 3rd plenary session, after considering information from the Council of Ministers on the activities of BiH institutions in the fight against terrorism, a conclusion was adopted, in charge of the college of both homes, that on the basis of a discussion at the session, the draft conclusions, which will be submitted to the homes for adoption. You received a proposal for a conclusion on the first part of the 17th session. I'd like a few more sentences to explain to you about the conclusions. The problem of defining the conclusions was that it was a joint session of both homes and that the debate included MPs from the House of Representatives and delegates from the House of Peoples. We, as the College of the House of Representatives, have initiated several times to hold a joint session of both homes where these conclusions would be considered, but we have not come to an understanding by another home. There are conclusions ahead of you, and that is why we decided to attend a meeting at home, without a joint session of both homes. You have before you a proposal for conclusions, which represent what is a compromise, a consensus by the College of Representativesgo home. Gentlemen, I'm opening a discussion and I suggest that after the discussion we go to the adoption of conclusions. Here you go. If no one is answering for a discussion, I suggest we attend the vote. I ask the MPs, who is to propose a conclusion to plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? 49 Of the 36 messengers, 36 voted unanimously. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.9. The discussion of the document "General Directions and Priorities for the implementation of BiH's Foreign Policy" has been a document of the BiH Presidency since September 2001. The presidency addressed the document to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of BiH Ministers, the Federation of BiH Parliament and the Republika Srpska, expecting a debate on the foreign policy issue of BiH in these institutions and that these institutions make an appropriate contribution, the definition and implementation of BiH's foreign policy. I would like to ask a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Beriz Belkić, to give an opening statement at this point. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5531	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all MPs, guests and media representatives. Here, I will, in the shortest, try to make one contribution to better understanding of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency's intentions that have been translated into this document, which we call "General Directions and Priorities for the implementation of BiH's foreign policy". I want to remind you that, before this document was adopted, the following activities were preceded. In fact, an analysis of the current situation was carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Bureau, on several occasions, led the debate and familiarised itself with the situation in this area, followed by the establishment of basic criteria and principles on which the document would be done, and after that, the first versions of the document were, in our opinion, presented to the public in a convenient way and organised a number of round tables, discussions and, of course, this document was available to all levels of the legislative and executive government of BiH, which were valued as being able to contribute to the quality of this document. After all, I welcome the initiative of this home, that such an important issue is being held. I have looked at the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Commission and I think that the Presidency will take note of certain obligations, which come from these conclusions and will be very happy to learn about the activities and results, which are indicated here in these conclusions of this committee. So, once again, I would like to point out that the document is the result of full synchronisation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I will honestly say that, practically, it provided professional and expert support and creation, in fact, the creation of this document, and the Presidency was moving within the general frameworks and giving some guidance to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what we want to achieve by this document. So you must have seen that the first part of the document speaks about the principles to be followed in implementing the country's foreign policy. So it's about the basic principle that all jobs in this area have to be done, with the starting point that it's a sovereign country, which requires an equal relationship with all partners, no matter what the issues are. So, the principle of openness, the principle of respect for international principles, 50 international conventions, charters in this area. So, anything that brings one serious state into the position of a relevant partner in this area. It is the first part of the document that speaks of the principles it adheres to and should be held by every part of the BiH government that is in some way engaged in this business, i.e. having the authority under the Constitution to do this job. Of course, then these basic directions, bilateral and multilateral nature are indicated, and ultimately, the priorities are derived, which are grouped. I think the document has made it quite clear and transparent and indicated and one, in my opinion, an important part, which has not been so far, particularly highlighted in similar documents, protecting the interest of BiH citizens abroad. I will take the opportunity, given that it is a rather significant time distance, from the moment this document is adopted until today when the debate is held, to inform you of some of the things that have been done and possibly realised and some of the things that we expected to be brought to an end. So, I don't think I have much to say about our activities related to the Council of Europe, because this house has also made a major contribution, or direct participant in all these activities that are directly here at the sittings, through the adoption of certain legislative projects, which through delegations, visited by the Council of Europe, or Strasbourg, Brussels and lobbying for our entry into the Council of Europe, through different meetings with different structures from the Council of Europe. So, you all know that at this point, we are in a situation to wait for January, or the beginning of February, when we should definitely decide on our admission to the Council of Europe, with a view to getting to know you that all the documentation, statements and all the things that should have been delivered there. Of course, there are additional requirements, related to the position of minorities, related to the implementation and signing of certain conventions and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency, that it also makes a very urgent effort to make sure that these requests are implemented and that this long-awaited entry into the Council of Europe is our assessment that, in January and early February, this long-awaited entry into the Council of Europe could take place. When it comes to the activities involved in the Partnership for Peace, which is what the Commission is asking here to submit one piece of information on the course of these activities, the Presidency has expressed its political will to apply for accession to this NATO programme and we, practically, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have sent our application for accession to the Partnership for Peace and are led by certain activities, which are, of course, prescribed by the association that those who have interest and will to join that programme must meet. These activities are being led, mainly through the Standing Committee on Military Affairs and the Presidency, of course, with full co-operation with the defence ministries and the command of the Federation and the RS military. I must say that, the key question is, where we have misunderstandings, or where we have no consensus, the issue of the BiH military, or whether the existence of one or more military conditions, or whether the existence of an army is an obstacle to entering this project, or whether this kind of organization that we have, is practically not eliminated from the possibility of reception. Of course, there are different opinions, and I believe that through certain activities, which are now being conducted in entities, when it comes to rationalising the restructuring of armies and the Presidency will be the initiator of certain assets that can lead to a solution, which will allow our further participation in this application. 51 You are likely to have stepped up activities related to establishing relations with neighbours, through the institutions of the interstate council, which we also have with the Republic of Croatia. We had a meeting of the Interstate Council in Zagreb two days ago. So it's the 5th session. In my opinion, the results are so mediocre, so to speak. A number of agreements have been signed. A model of speeding up certain things has been agreed, more transparent work on some agreed matters and remains a problem of ratification, for us an extremely important free transit agreement through the Republic of Croatia to and from Luke Ploca and BiH to and from Neum. We'll know the results. Here, I have information that the parliamentary delegation of both homes will visit the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and I think it is an opportunity and a place to state our clear position, that our foreign contract has signed and ratified and that the commitment of the Interstate Council, which I wish to point out, has been supported by the same commitment and this same requirement has been addressed to the Parliament. So, we expect the partner to ratify the agreement, a related contract that has already been ratified in BiH. It is scheduled for the 18th meeting of the Interstate Council with the SRJ. The contents of that first session, the very name tells her that it is a constitutive session, where we will try and think that we will be able to determine the rules of procedure, something similar to the model with Croatia and, possibly, establish the composition of this operational body, which would implement the conclusions of the newly established interstate council. When it comes to personal changes, i.e. human change, which should have been an integral part of certain projections of priorities and programmes, and the activities are being brought to an end these days, so that a complete package of refreshments and implementation of principles related to the selection of representatives, our ambassadors in destinations where we have them, will be brought to an end. I would like to comment a little bit, because very often in this document, it is, of course, emphasized that our priority is to install into this core of the activities that is being led, to install this economic aspect, that the time has come when we must, through the economic effects and effects of the people who represent us in countries, measure both the need and rationality of this aspect of our presence in some area at all. According to my information, this project is near the end of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will have a chance to consider this projection these days. In fact, it is one idea that in existing embassies, in existing structures, a single structure, a personal structure trained to carry out, so to speak, promoting the economic opportunities of BiH and trying to interest investors in the country they live in, yes, possibly investing in BiH. Of course, this involves one whole propaganda activity, one whole system that will prepare and so to say supplying our people who deal with these, dealing with relevant data, which would be presented in certain regions and in certain countries. And finally, let me say something about this cost aspect of all of these, all of these activities that we call, therefore, foreign policy. The BiH state, a very significant asset, is detaching for this activity. So, it almost accounts for 30% of BiH's budget and in general it is understandable that all citizens and the House of Representatives and the Presidency expect clear results, clear and concrete results, which justify the existence of such a developed structure compared to our economic strength. Of course, we must also respect this political aspect and our interest in entering European and world integration, our absolute interest in a balanced, balanced attitude towards the East, towards Europe, towards America, etc. Respect for the country's past experiences and 52 of their relationship with BiH. So that's the part that doesn't return, perhaps, the economic effects, but in general, in general, these activities, we also have to take care of this cost aspect. So every dinar, every conversion mark that's been spent, should in some way be both justifiable and clearly explained why it's been spent. Here, so much, with an apology that I didn't even know when this sequel would be and there were some obligations. Chairman, he already had a request from the House of Peoples. I am absolutely prepared to give you answers to every question, with one more note, that these conclusions, which the commission has made and I suppose today the Assembly will accept, put them on the agenda of the Bureau's sessions, will be asked to fit in and we will discuss them and assume certain obligations, which are suggested here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5532	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. I would like to ask Mr. Marko Amidžić, President of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5533	Madam Chairman, Mr. President, fellow MPs, allow me to begin by thanking you again for the introduction and for the material of the presidency member, or the BiH Presidency, and to give some notices first, and then I will also give a brief review of this agenda point. In fact, between the two parts of the session, this House session, the consolidated text of the Commission's Foreign Affairs Conclusions proposal, I have provided the members of the Bureau individually, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and the members of the College, with the opportunity to reconsider them and have the opportunity to make their proposals, suggestions and corrections. I shared the same proposal with media representatives, before the session, and I would ask them, if they have any interest, to find them right on the table. Third previous note. The foreign affairs commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is unanimous in supporting the general direction of foreign policy. It wants, in this conclusion and its activity to be recognizable, its role and the role of the dom, the House of Representatives in the field of foreign policy, as well as the members of the Commission individually want to be recognised as representatives of this House, not just as members of individual political options and groups in the House of Representatives. Let me say a few things that characterise the foreign policy at all, that is, the position of the House and the Commission for Foreign Policy, or the Foreign Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly. With this I would like, in turn, to encourage the debate, to ask for debate and to look for, not only the objectives set by the Presidency in these general directions, but to look for the place and role of the institutions, the joint institutions of BiH in the field of foreign policy, and at this point especially of this House and the Commission for Foreign Affairs. I, in fact, convey one, this Commission's view of commending the Presidency and its gratitude to the House of Representatives, which expressed its willingness to devote one 53 of the sessions on such important issues, although not all of them, to say that we support the principles of foreign policy and the priorities set out in the general directions. We think it's a shame we don't have a plenary session of two homes to look for common goals and common decisions. The Foreign Affairs Commission voices support for BiH institutions' activities on BiH's efforts to become a prominent anti-terrorism fighter and members of the anti-terrorist coalition, to highlight the fight for full control of the BiH state border, to strengthen the Border Service, to maximise diplomatic and other activities around BiH's accession to the Council of Europe based on a resolution adopted at the 16th session of the House of Representatives. This is one key element, the Commission's relationship against these objectives, and from both business opportunities, followed the conclusion you have ahead of you. The conclusion has two minor mistakes of technical nature, which I've corrected and attached now with the record and I don't think I'm talking about skipping that 2 and 3 thesis. It's just one word. It is understandable in this conclusion under e. Otherwise, the conclusion has a form of business, as is the domain of the House, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and is therefore classified in these four chapters with these points that we propose. Something that, in addition to the conclusions, I would like to point out, is about issues that are important for the functioning of the House in the field of foreign policy. I will try to briefly locate these issues in Articles 32 and 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which regulate the competence of the Commission for Foreign Affairs. We are particularly interested in, in the area, talking about the members of the Commission, that in the field of foreign policy and foreign affairs, between the Commission and representatives clubs, individual political groups, there is at least a balance in the decision-making process between the House sessions. We even think that the Commission should have one specific position. To address the decisions and conclusions of the Commission, try to establish one such relationship. We believe that there are no special difficulties, but there is a need to build on the relation of the College of the House, the Commission for Foreign Affairs, especially in the practical part of the realization of this area of parliamentary work. We are interested in the discussion and relation of the Commission - Ministry, which deals with foreign policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of European Integration. We are interested in the opinion of the debate, in the Commission's relationship with the BiH Presidency, when I say the Commission then as Parliament's working body in communication and in expressing Parliament's interest in the area of foreign policy. We are interested in the communication of the Commission entity parliaments, which is set out in the Rules of Procedure, Article 32, where we have in practice dilemmas, not in the Commission on the positions and competencies of the Commission, according to the entity authorities, when it comes to foreign policy, we primarily think about the concept of cooperation in this area and communication. We find it very important to open the debate of the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly in this area. We don't think both homes are in the same position as foreign policy and our Rules of Procedure, I don't think they're in the same position. When I'm talking about pistachio, someone can say it, it's not clear, but let's do a domain, a part-round from the House of Representatives' relationship to the appointment of the Council of Ministers, against the Law on the fill of members of the Bureau, etc. We believe that, from the point of view of the Constitution of Rules of Procedure and Practice, these issues should be defined within the colleges of both homes and that certain positions and competencies are clearly known, the relationship to the Council of Ministers 54 homes, the relationship to the Presidency and the relation to the parliaments of other countries with which we have parliamentary co-operation, because this is also a particular area of foreign policy. Furthermore, the relation of the commissions of the BiH Parliament's permanent and temporary delegations in interparliamentary institutions, which is also the Commission's competence and we do not have these issues in practice developed. The relationship of the Commission on Foreign Affairs with the Commission, we will say, is in practice spoken to the competent commission of the People's House, although its work content is significantly different from the contents of the Commission's work on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, i.e. whether there are overlapping, duplication, parallelism, solidarity, etc. We would like to define relations for our responsibilities and conduct, according to the Rules of Procedure, etc. The solutions to these issues mean, having always adopted a platform of performances, anyone representing BiH abroad. I'm asking a question. Do we have them and whether we have had in the current activities of any delegation? This means giving up the rights of individuals to define content and protocols as they please and away from any diplomatic scandals that might arise in relations in our practice on the ground. And finally, I repeat, the Commission's desire to conduct a broad debate on this, the Commission's desire to make a statement on the proposed conclusions, which would be guidelines for our work and work together on this plan and my need for these conclusions to become an integral part of the minutes of today's House session, or my discussion, that they should enter the set, at least as our proposal, and we will see what fate will be in their debate and subsequent statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5534	Thank you, Mr. Amidžić. We are having a debate today on the foreign policy of BiH, a document that has established the Presidency serves us as material, as a set of information, principles on this, and what the House should declare is our commission's report. In this respect, the Commission's report represents the focus of our debate today. If I may, I would now give my word to myself to speak as an MP, and then the session will lead, according to the Rules of Procedure, in that case the first Vice-President, and I will later join, I will have to leave the session due to foreign-political diplomatic obligations, and that will be very short, and then Mr Ljubić will then give his word to the next behind me. Gentlemen, it is obvious that BiH's foreign policy reflects internal policy or otherwise reflects BiH's political and institutional structure. In all of this, it is important that we achieve what I think, that we have not yet reached to the end, and that our representatives, representatives of BiH institutions, when they travel to international or bilateral visits, and our diplomats are increasingly representing the interests of BiH, and the less and less interests of political groups, institutions, therefore, not depending on which political option the group belonged, I think they should represent more BiH politics, that this is ultimately a guarantee of the protection of the interests of all BiH citizens and peoples living in BiH. 55 What I would like to inform you about, which is fully in line with the conclusions on the principles and proorities of BiH's foreign policy, which Mr Belkić, a member of the BiH presidency and Mr Amidžić, president of our Joint Affairs Commission, also spoke of today, is our relationship with neighbouring countries. As you know, we recently had a visit to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and a visit to the SRJ at the highest level. We agreed in talks with these delegations that parliamentary delegations, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, at the highest level by the end of this year return a visit. On Monday, a top-level visit by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and we expect to achieve a visit at the highest level, ahead of the BiH Parliament, to the Federal Assembly in Yugoslavia during January or February. In fact, we show that we are making a concrete contribution to what is written in these documents, that is to say that these are our permanent partners, if you allow me to add that neighbouring countries are the most important partners of BiH, not only political, but perhaps economic partners first and foremost, and that as a Assembly, we should make a great contribution. What politicians are less talking about, and we who are dealing with science more is the problem of how to make BiH more involved in scientific and technological flows in the world. Obviously we can't be satisfied with that. This time that has passed has affected BiH's lagging behind, therefore, to lag behind other countries, and we know that, what is the significance of scientific and technical co-operation. In other words, we live in a time where change is greater than in a time of scientific and technological revolution, which has defined a system that has been so far and when we obviously need to see how to involve ourselves in this how to involve our science and education in this. What I would end up with, and I think Mr Belkić pointed out, is a new, modern approach to diplomacy. The dipolatia has changed. Today diplomacy is, above all, in the function of the economic development of the country it represents and I think that in the future we need to take more care when we choose our staff, whether for ambassadors, whether for deputies or for second level, to be as capable of representing BiH's economic interests. Talks with foreign diplomats suggest that the issue on their side is given the utmost attention and I think we need to have a modern diplomacy, which is diplomacy that will take care of our economic interests. Obviously, there is an open connection between foreign and domestic policy. Gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5535	Word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bilbija, and let the distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5536	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, present guests, first to welcome you. I'm going to say a few sentences about what we're discussing today, and I'm going to base my discussion on this, because as vice president of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I took part in a series of seminars organised by the OSCE, and I was on a study trip to the Council of Europe, and, behold, a part of us MPs came back from Brussels yesterday, where we were on the Round Table, where there was a discussion among other things about the Partnership for Peace. I think these two, two conditions and the Council of Europe, i.e., probably both the European Union and the Partnership for Peace, in 56 of these talks, are also looking for political and economic stability in BiH, so that it can join all of this. We are expected to have one period in which we will have a lot of obligations, and these obligations will require a lot of funding. My opinion and seeing that we're dealing with what we can right now. So we're going to solve the piece by piece and get closer to those integrations. Therefore, I suggest that, let's say, the State Border Service is under our direct authority, but I think, since it allows free flow of people and goods, and also protects BiH citizens, that someone who has, possibly, intention to harm BiH cannot enter BiH. I therefore propose that we give one piece of support to the work of the State Border Service, with the task of paying particular attention to the illegal trafficking of women, which is now well spoken of in the world and in the European Union, which is creating a problem for the international community. On the other hand, the Partnership for Peace requires both political and economic conditions stable. Therefore, give one full support to the State Border Service and, as Parliament, we can recommend to those services that have not yet taken over the Border State Service, to pay attention to this situation. So, both to the trafficking of women and to the eventual entry of whether some members of terrorist groups or anything else that would harm BiH. Furthermore, as far as foreign policy is concerned, I think it would be a good idea for the foreign ministry to make a cross-section, which would show that with countries where BiH has either embassies or consulates, such as economic co-operation with those countries as to whether it is satisfactory and that one way is to see how much BiH's import-export ratio with those countries where we have either embassies or representations, which is going to be one indicator, somewhere we need to fix, and maybe it's good somewhere. Furthermore, as regards our citizens, who are on temporary work abroad, it should also be considered to be seen in those countries where we have more citizens, whether embassies, or consulars, fulfil their tasks, that people can, in time, complete all that they need to do, and there, if there is a need for one re-orientation, therefore, where there are more needs, that within the framework of existing and clerks and of their apparatus, which is in that function to be carried out, if it takes a redistribution to create one support for our citizens there to do so, and I'm not saying it without reason. In this way, speaking to embassy and consulate representatives, I think it would be good, which could be done by the Council of Ministers, by doing one video or one brochure, I don't know what to call it at this point, which BiH would present both culturally and economically and economically, and a series of things, that someone who was there to see, who wasn't here, in one way and in a picture and word, because I think we still have enough capacity and enough opportunities to provide tourist services, that people who were never there can see. On the other hand, our citizens, who are there on temporary work and have one part of the resources they could invest, if nothing at first in a small economy to get a job here, let me say that all of this would lead to BiH's economic and political progress as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5537	I'd like to thank Mr. Bilbija's esteemed representative. The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Bjelobrk, and let the honourable representative be prepared, Mr. Ljubomir Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5538	Dear colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, above all, I am pleased that this debate has been launched at this very home, on the subject of free policy, and in the situation where we have achieved an immodest consensus in the BiH Presidency on real and real policies and the principles of foreign policy. I join all those who insist on making further shifts in the organisation of the state and all its institutions, in order to make diplomacy as much as possible of the prefixes of efficiency. Of course, different approaches are possible in the analysis of the range of foreign policy, in a country marked by all attributes, increased in the last ten years and I will say freely after 9/11 o.g. However, I will be free to express a few of these key elements as well as the prisms that need to be viewed by the possible needs and domains of diplomatic performances, regardless of whether they are professionals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, parliamentarians, people from the Presidency or other people who do not have, perhaps, the official attribution of diplomatic performance. I'll remind you only of the role of athletes, cultural workers, the entire play of young people, etc. It is extremely important in a country that has $1,200 national income and tends to enter a whole series of Euro-Atlantic and global integrations, to resolve the problem of entering those integrations, in a way that solves the cost problem, which objectively brings income. That can't be done at $1,200. From there, it seems perfectly natural to insist that the concept of diplomatic performances, in charge of people in BiH, is much more important to express the need to create conditions for economic, above all to resolve trade in BiH. Everything we do, everything we bid on relationships, intentions, finally costs, and this country has to formulate that kind of profit, which will be able to provide it. I've already heard more discreet criticism of the benevolent. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by this concept, take on chamber functions? Let's be open. I would, of course, be a happy citizen of this country that we, above all on the European market, and even in other world markets, have such a developed chamber system, which will be excellent for all BiH's potential to create new jobs, but until we create it, someone in this country has to do it. The most natural thing is that it's done by the Foreign Ministry. I will stand up for it, and I will live in the hope that there will be a moment for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to leave it to a future chamber capable of representing the Bosnian Herzegovina economy in the world. I'm afraid by then a little more water will have passed through this country. The other of the important... I don't want to say... to do these jobs, but I have to say. I've given myself the pleasure, a little off the record that I've looked at a few of the foreign ministry's latest bulletins. I have to admit, the first cut of these reports, and that's what diplomats do not every day, shows that, despite the changes, people in embassies missions, in very diverse ways understand their level of operational responsibility. You call me that freedom to say, you have the fabric of fantastic diplomatic phrases about an event and you have very deadly data, what happened. I am a representative of the choice of the kind of goals, where I ask BiH's performances to create works. Of course, diplomatic phrases, classical forms of performance, lobbying, etc. are content forms of this work. The problem is what's going on in this country. I only know that the authorities of this country are obliged to create, according to programmes publicly declared both in this Parliament and elsewhere, they are obliged to create an ambiance for a larger 58 employment and a larger G-di-pi in this country. The diplomacy must be, after all, in the function of this and from there I am one of the participants in the creation of the text, in a way that we seek greater efficiency for all participants in diplomatic performances, through the expressivity of the faster and more stable development of BiH. I'm glad we're dealing with some non-material, planetary range. It is terribly important that one of the BiH citizens is involved in this. I'll tell that prostate we're all dealing with. It is important, under number one, that what is living on and in this sense the BiH state and all its representatives have an absolute right to their legitimate interests. To that end, do not mind or let your eyes and ears mate, that a whole series of pragmatic insistences on the acceleration and improvement of communicability, among the subjects that Amidžić spoke of very well, because above all we are missing in this House, far more order. Secondly, we lack a more precise division of responsibility. I will publicly say that I belong to those who are not sure that according to the Rules of Procedure, the College has properly provided myself with some rhyming about the creation of foreign policy and I want this issue to be opened and resolved, of course, in working forms between the meetings, especially when you expand that round of analysis to work with other organs, I want to say stereotypes of some assumptions that need to be co-operated with some amount of awe, not according to the funk of real information and real functionality, and to this problem of the relationship between entity bodies and state institutions. These are the things I think the most responsible people in this country, as soon as they have to sit down and formulate a common method, on constitutional relations and also on the business relations of this parliament which has the status of a legal document. I am one of those tenacious ones here, and I'm going to do that at the next session, which insists that this rule, drawn out by our rules of procedure, enables us to communicate between the organs, the state authorities and the entity bodies. All this finally reflects abroad. Be absolutely sure. We can figure each other out here on behalf of each other's little goals. In the final outside, the BiH state pays for it and it pays for it. Words can still endure, but money is a uniquely painful category. Let me get this straight. It would be my pleasure, to continue, to say the operational debate of adopted policies and foreign policy and principles, and to put more often before us on the analysis that is within our reach. What happened? Not who said what. In this regard, on behalf of the SDP Club, I give full support to the text of the conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5539	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Bjelobrk. Rijeka has a distinguished representative, Mr. Kovačević, and let the distinguished representative Mr. Majdandžić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5540	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to, perhaps, one or three things to focus on issues in the field of foreign policy. First of all, I would like to say that I fully support the expansion of co-operation with neighbours, co-operation with the region and regional integration and the approximation of European integration, and in particular the entry into the Council of Europe and the Mapi Road, and this, which leads us, to the European Union in the near future, and I would like it to be closer. 59 For the first time, an act, which I believe should have been long ago, so I said that economic goals were put in the first place. I am, precisely, glad to be discussing after MP boriti, because I have something different approach, I am not saying that diplomacy should not be dealt with in foreign policy, but I am glad that he focused this document on the Commission's conclusions in the first three points of the second point and in the third point on economic issues, that he put in point 2 economic issues, so says political and other issues. So, that we're in the future of diplomacy, we should also have economic benefits. The diplomacy is to work on certain benefits for the country it represents. So, BiH should benefit from its diplomacy in the future, and not just political, and especially not war-based people or others, because these policies have ruined us, we don't need them in diplomacy. Under BiH's 1st economic goals to be achieved under the 2nd political objectives. To that end, I propose this under point 3 which is proposed to produce a study on BiH's economic potential, where economic potentials would be presented. I would go further, that this study, because nothing means anything to us a collection of some resources, which BiH has. We do, for example. The ironworks in Zenica or Celak in Prijedor, which have very high capacities and do nothing, etc. And now we can say that we have huge wood processing capacities. We have high capacity to produce iron ore. We have mining capacity, energy capacity, but I would like the study to include investment opportunities, through the privatisation process and other strategic orientations to see where it is most economically justified in BiH to invest in the future. Therefore, to open the focus of possible investment in iron ore, in the processing of wood into agriculture, in forestry, etc. and other, hydropower plants, thermal power plants, etc. Yes, yet let there be a strategy, that this stranger not only read there is everything. We will write the potentials are huge, but there was an investment possibility that the point draws that investment option under point 3 of the same stupa, the possibility of investment security in BiH, that it sees it has the resources of BiH, has the need for these and these investments to develop investments and provide security to the team and team. So, politically, what Mr. Beriz was saying, I fully support his intro investment, it provides, meaning, political stability, parliamentary elections, democratic elections, etc. means that it provides a complete international standard set of security to attract foreign investors. Therefore, this study should not only plead that it is a summation of BiH's economic opportunities, but also be a set of opportunities for investment and investment security and that this introductory part should be reduced a little bit, and that this should be a strategic study, based on which we will run economic policy, which will be led by both BiH and entities. It's an economic question. I'm going to talk about these political issues now. The political issue, I am talking about some parliamentary delegations, talks with neighbours, talks from Brussels to Abu Dhabi, to this and that. It seems to me that in this assembly, policy should be taken, that representatives of all parliamentary parties, participate in these talks, is below 1. Under 2nd, to choose from the topic of what delegation to discuss with, to have few MPs as experts in the area. Don't send me there to talk about medicine. I don't know about that. I can only drink the powder if my head hurts. I don't know anything else. But don't go, assuming that the reverse doctor goes and talks about banking and co-operation in Yugoslavia, especially, at least I know that language well. 60 Therefore, I would like to ask ours here, as well, those who determine these delegations, to be represented in delegations, I will not speak, I have that report, I read in some Sarajevo newspaper “Bosnia” where who was and what was. I wouldn't want to, I don't do it, otherwise such a policy isn't even an approach for me to deal with right now so I can criticize and gossip, but I'd say at least this year to do it honestly, that's what I'm saying to the president of the Council of Ministers, who isn't here and all those who participate in the formation of a delegation. The third point, this is, is not a question, but is a very important point, which these days is causing a misunderstanding in public lawsuit against SRJ by Mr. Trnka. As an MP, I ask a question. Is he authorized and is that a lawsuit by him? Either it's a lawsuit by the BiH presidency or is it a lawsuit by the Council of Ministers? I'd like them to be public with you. I don't know who it's supposed to be. I don't know who it's supposed to be. I don't know who it is. I don't know who it is. All right, people, let's be clear. There is no need, if that is the position of the Presidency, the conclusion of the Presidency let the people know that this is what the Presidency has concluded. If it's the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers. If that, Mr Kasim Trnka, has the authority under some constitution of BiH or the statute of the UN tribunal, he may have given him authority, I don't know. Then Kasim Trnka was authorized and he filed it, but let it be said to the public. I would ask someone to come out in front of BiH officials and let the public say so. We don't need to be confused, we don't need to. We are going to get closer to the relationship, and we first said, first of all, we have drawn closer to each other, and we are going closer to our neighbours, so with Croatia, I am counting on the neighbours of all of the former Yugoslavia, so I am also counting on Slovenia to account for its neighbours and Montenegro, and what I know about Macedonia and Serbia, and then we are going to Southeast Europe, the Balkans of integration. So there's no reason why we shouldn't say that in this case we've come to the conclusion, because of that and that. Please, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5541	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Kovačević. Word has a respected representative, Mr Majdanžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5542	Dear Speaker of the Assembly, honourable members of the Presidency, Mr Belik, I welcome the guests, ladies and gentlemen of MPs - MPs, My first question is addressed. Does Mr Belkić represent the other two members of the presidency as a member of the Bureau? If so, is that according to our rules of procedure? If not, why are not members of the Bureau present on this very important issue? My contribution to the discussion is next. We have a programme, i.e. a general direction by the Presidency, that is, we have quite well worked out by the Commission, which has worked hard on external affairs and I think we have a framework programme, which shows how it should be done and that we should focus our activities on the realisation of foreign policy. I think this should be followed by one, I would say, a more precise and more specific term plan, which will define all these activities and that every three months, that 61 is my vision reporting, how the conclusions are realized, which are very important in foreign policy and what are these problems, and the problems are not small. Furthermore, this obliges us to do all that we have adopted so far on accession, etc. and our orientation and our direction and our direction towards that path. Furthermore, I think it would be good for each of our acts, which we bring, therefore, to the law and to another norm, to be one confirmation that it is in accordance with European norms. We can assume that, but it doesn't have to be true and we have examples in other countries, I have a lot of examples from Slovenia, where there are major mistakes that many laws, are not exactly made in accordance with European norms, standards and movements and have to be made again and you know there are costs and there are waste in time etc. And it's not right. Furthermore, I think it is very difficult to realise our foreign policy, for the reasons it is a reflection, an image of the internal state, internal policy, the situation in the globally spoken, legislative, executive and judicial authorities and the entire organisation of the state. There's a lot of problems, and I don't want to talk about it right now, but it would be good if these problems were shown and how to solve them. We're going to have to make some cuts, some big radical procedures, to move forward, etc., if not, then we're standing in place, we're losing pace, and slowly, slowly, I'd say we're not getting closer, but I'd say we're slowly moving away from Europe. That's it, that's it. That's it. That's it. It's not easy. So, to show those others, for this reason, I see this one far-sightedness, one greater expertise, one far greater expertise, let's say first the Council of Ministers, then the Presidency and others in the executive bodies of the government, which will suggest that these things are potential to go and to go towards it. Our staff, it would also probably have problems and good solutions and possible bad solutions to come up with these problems as well as how they can be solved and whether our personnel are appropriate, and first of all they would have to have some managerial solutions, I would say omens and traits, in order to represent us and so that we could make these other arrangements, which are certainly of interest. I'd just like so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5543	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Majdandžić. Rijeka has a deputy chairman, Sead Avdić, and let the staff member, Mr. Sead Buturović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5544	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I would also like to point out my opinion on the material in question today before us. It must be acknowledged that BiH's foreign policy has accepted, respected and absorbed the fundamental objectives of international relations, which are reduced, practically to four dimensions. It is: globalisation, integration, co-operation and partnership. If taken into account, then BiH's objective foreign policy must become an innovative and dynamic, extremely rational and end the transition process in which it is located and also a Bosnian-Herzegovina society as a whole. What does transition mean? It means that they must examine, optimise and rationalise the number of diplomatic and consular representations, embassies 62 around the world, and in this context, for example, the possibilities of this small country in the Balkans, which has a specific position in international relations, because the international community is deeply involved on BiH soil and in this context, we are certainly a specific country in the South East Europe area and in this part of the planet. In this sense, shifts should be made, in terms of aspects, so once again I am talking about the optimization of the entire diplomatic and consular network of BiH. Strengthen those destinations, which are important for the functioning of this country, which are important for economic diplomacy and which are important, simply from the point of view of the general state and relations of BiH with the environment. In this sense, therefore, BiH and its foreign policy should not be at a state of perception and simply observing what is happening in international relations, but objectively must have and anti-cipe future events, meaning to predict and go bye-bye to meet, means to lead an active, active relationship to foreign policy and in this context certainly not to agree to any surprises. So, a lot of work for the press... and the organisational part and technology and the functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers as a whole. What should also be pointed out is that, BiH has defined, established good neighbourly relations, defining this through the exchange of ambassadors with neighbours, which means that this is a major success from a aspect of peace and stability in the Southeastern Europe and BiH's contribution as a political factor and as an entity operating within the Stability Pact and a unified part of the Southeast European countries. So, there is no, which is the principle of foreign policy of every country, there are no eternal friends and therefore no enemies, there is only interest, which is an eternal category and interest is the best motive, as said in the foreign policy for establishing friendship, good neighbourly co-operation, etc. means, and you are the fundamental objectives of foreign policy are, absolutely, reflected in the functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It should also be noted that BiH as a state must respect itself, in order for others to respect it. to safeguard its integrity, international legal subjectivity, territorial integrity in international relations, and not one word at all, nor by any procedure to question it, which means an absolutely simple objective is to ensure that all diplomatic consular representations, all its representatives lead a single policy on behalf of this country, represent and simply implement a single concept of Bosnia and Herzegovina's external political relations. It is important to achieve such a and focus this political energy on resolving fundamental external political relations. However, foreign political relations are in direct correlation with the social processes that take place in Bosnia and Herzegovina and simple foreign policy should be organised (almarised) with internal processes of building Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which means you need to set high goals that will be a guide to foreign policy management, but also to governance of both internal and internal policies. In this context, he would point out that it is necessary for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to accept this consciousness or these findings. In the end, we have practical foreign policy management today located in three entities. One entity is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina which adopts the foreign policy strategy, appoints ambassadors, representatives of diplomatic consular 63 offices, etc. The operation and tactics of this foreign policy are run by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a third entity appears who was simply given to him under the Constitution, which is so-called. The parliamentary diplomacy that we are talking about today from the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives and Peoples. This parliamentary diplomacy objectively means these three entities, objectively re-establishing the goal of having to fu... their political energy on fundamental external political goals. Whether this is the case today, we cannot objectively be satisfied, which means there must be a full harmonisation of the exchange of information and a alignment of attitudes between these three entities. Believe me, this is not for neglect and in this context, the House of Representatives must accept its high degree of responsibility for the management of this part of parliamentary diplomacy, which is the most promising, easiest way and way to establish political bridges and co-operation with countries and countries around the world. This is what gathers my attention and simply requires some answers with a finding – I was one of the aggressive advocates of this theme session who should also give concrete expected results and who I have repeatedly attended at the Commission for External Relations, which I am fully supporting in its insistence to introduce more order in the simple functioning and functioning of this home in the field of foreign policy. I think that there are certain things that need to be harmonised, and in this context, it is also expected from this session that certain responses in the relations between the College Commissions, the College House of Representatives and the harmonisation of these relations from the appointment of delegations to the simple political performances of our representatives are given in accordance with certain conferences and international obligations. I think that parliamentary diplomacy, that the House of Representatives did well and did what it had strengthened, strengthened and was extremely pulsated from the aspect of parliamentary diplomacy, which is absolutely no competition nor any part of it is in confrontation or simply with any segment, above all with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Council of Ministers. In this sense, full coordination of harmonisation is necessary and I think that this minimum coordination and harmonisation has been achieved so far and in this context it was absolutely on the welfare of both the citizens and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5546	Mr. Sead Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5547	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the presidency, I will speak a little bit as a member of this foreign affairs committee, a little as a man, a little as a citizen, a little as an MP. And while I wasn't an MP to me, foreign policy as a man has always been one element, one essential feature and the element of statehood next to a series of others, but foreign policy has been very much in my eyes, and today I think we all know it. In support of all these political and military integrations, I would, however, give the importance aside and how significant and these integrations of economic integrations, with absolute support for the principles of foreign policy given by the Presidency, I as a member of the Commission and all my colleagues, have really worked very actively on the work and as a product of this, are certain conclusions proposed by my colleagues. I will add two other conclusions that are the same as the Commission's conclusions, which relate to that element of economic integration. I also talked about it at the 16th session here, the one fresh when I came from a 64th-century project, it's preparing countries for EU integration. So then I said that Bosnia and Herzegovina is planning to enter 2010. But watch this, which doesn't mean we're waiting until 2010, so somebody's gonna call us in, and we're gonna come in. Well, a little tomorrow. As late as it is today, if it isn't already late, we have to work on this project and do a lot of things to get us into a circle of candidates for entry into that economic integration, into that economic European house. Europe wants us, but we need a lot of things to do ourselves. So now I'm going to propose two conclusions from the Foreign Affairs Commission and I'd like to make a statement about it. As the first conclusion that, that the House of Representatives authorised the Foreign Affairs Commission to conduct activities on that path. This is one conclusion right away, and the second conclusion is that, within one reasonable period, we will take up to 1.5.2002 in this House, we will have the activity of amending the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Representative and that in this House we will form, whatever we call a committee, a committee for European integration from members of this Parliament in which the opposition will also be represented. So, because it's said and I will repeat again, without the opposition's participation activity, there is neither a successful project nor we will, successful activities on that path. We must be extremely pragmatic here and that is what we are asked to do, and it is up to Parliament to decide on it. And I want this home to be made known to these two conclusions. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5548	Thank you very much to my colleague Buturović, you mentioned the issue of amending the Rules of Procedure if. We have a report from the Commission. If you feel that you should, if you wish to propose something that is not in the Commission's Report, then it remains for you to initiate the procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you not to burden this point team. As an MP, you have the right to do so and, of course, it is not disputed if you think it is necessary to do so. Thank you very much. Let's move on. My colleague Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5549	The respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen, in the document that we have received, is particularly pointed out that the priority of Bosnia and Herzegovina in foreign policy is co-operation with neighbours, meaning co-operation with the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on principles of equality, mutual respect and respect. However, the question arises whether Bosnia and Herzegovina's latest or repeated lawsuit against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a top priority for Bosnia and Herzegovina in co-operation with neighbours. I personally don't think so, especially given that lately there's been an improvement in the relationship between these two countries. I also think that Professor Avdić said that the open embassies had ambassadors, that there's been a lot of talk lately and there's a lot of talk about it. Free trade, signing means a free trade agreement between the two countries so it's being asked is the issue of whether it's a priority for Bosnia and Herzegovina to improve relations with neighbours. It also seems to me, and we will talk about this in the next item of the agenda that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made a commitment to the Stability Pact's activities in Southeast Europe to sign all free trade agreements with countries in the region. What might happen next. The question is likely dependent on interest. There may be someone else to sue tomorrow. It could mean that tomorrow Bosnia and Herzegovina is suing Croatia probably in 65 depending on some current interests and depending on how the process may take place, a further process in The Hague tribunal. It is clear that there is no agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina on this issue either, and I do not see a Serbian member of the presidency here, and I think he should ask again for a debate on this issue and then take action to say if all this goes according to plan to follow the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also don't think it would be excessive if both Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly homes asked for a hearing on this issue and asked for a decision to withdraw the suit, because, as a legislative body, we have the right to do so, and in the end, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia withdrew the suit against Bosnia and Herzegovina and internally to say international, further international bad international deteriorations in international relations. I'm talking about worsening relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's so much to say what I meant to say about the lawsuit, and what surprised me, and what I didn't see in this material, which is that not one word was said about the terrorism and activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina to freak out on an external plan to fight terrorist acts and activities. They talked a lot about it here in Parliament. I think the State Border Service has also done its operational plan, but I'm surprised it doesn't exist in this material either, and I'm surprised that the Foreign Relations Commission also means there's nothing in its conclusions about terrorism and, in the end, crime. And in the end, I would say that it seems to me that according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Presidency has been in charge of taking foreign policy, but lately it seems to me that the Presidency has been a little by the side, and I will not say in prison and that this is the biggest activity and is the most active president of the Council of Ministers. I think the presidency should think about this a little bit and be more active on that plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5550	Thank you, Mr. Jovanović. Mr. Malkić Abdurahman. No, I don't have a Begović. He has Cuplov, Brka, Šarganović and only then Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5551	Lord Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. In any case, it is good to have an act that we are likely to adopt today and which speaks about the general directions and priorities of foreign policy. I'd like a few suggestions towards improving this text. The text sets out the principles of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy and priorities at point 1. I believe that, first of all, the principle under point 1 should be put in place as well as how it can implement foreign policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. who and in what way it cannot, or with which conditions it can be a representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or with which approvals. My colleague Avdić seems to have observed well that foreign policy is being implemented by the presidency, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is operating, and Parliament is leading some diplomatic, parliamentary diplomacy. However, we do not seem to have any control and control over foreign policy in this document. And I think that's what I should do. Then, at point 2 of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy priorities. I think that in the first point of black - full and consistent implementation of the General Peace Agreement, in particular in the area of foreign policy, there should be two sub-points, which is co-operation with The Hague tribunal, or 66 of the Court of Justice at the premises of the former Yugoslavia and under the 2nd co-operation with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I think there might be one at my place or there's a technical error. The Islamic Organisation of Islamic Conference members are listed here, so one is the OIC, and the other is the OIC. It is necessary to correct, a document will also come to the people of others outside Parliament. And the other thing, which would suggest also the chairman of this House and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, is that why MPs have not so far received guidance, or a road map for the Council of Europe. Then, as long as we haven't been informed as long as there has been a feasibility study and what's special, if you remember the last, previous or last session, I was abstaining from voting for the resolution on accepting the conditions for meeting the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. Namely, I still haven't received a copy of the documents signed by our authorised representatives. I voted for Resolution, but I don't know what they signed. From that aspect, I request a copy of the instruments on meeting the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5552	Thank you very much. Mr. Mustafa Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5553	Respected members of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and MPs, the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency gave indicative directions and priorities in implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. What I'm saying is that this material is quite good, comprehensive. He had one deficiency corrected by the Foreign Affairs Commission, which is the Taiwanese. A long time ago, I have to make my own personal observation a more quality conclusion of a committee in this House had. Very nice and fully covered complete material. Time has been given and concrete tasks and I would like Parliament to do in that part of the work that it can help these conclusions to be realized. I want to point out one flaw that came from the structure in which we're all in. You know. You don't have any health care in all this. Here's what I'm gonna say. Most of it in the Council of Ministers is in charge of policy implementation. Since you don't have the State-level Ministry of Health under the Dayton Agreement, then unfortunately you don't have any health care. And life, everyday life and obligations of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are as members of the UN, there are certain obligations and rights arising from this membership and also relating to health care as a very significant social activity. About this material you practically know no one is in charge of dealing with these problems. Unfortunately, sickness and human health as a general problem have no borders or state, let alone inter-entity and that is something that Parliament, hopefully at some point, will understand and try to solve. Everything that's not prescribed in Dayton, and what we agree here, we can do together, and I'd like to use this one dynamic run by Dejton in the field of health. One example for everyone. You know endemic nepotia as one problem related to the Balkans, to our premises. The solution to this problem requires huge financial resources that this country does not have. Such problems are of interest to the global health organisation and we would think that different legal regulations, currently in force in this country, would have been able to obtain long-term funds to address this problem. It's just one 67 of the general problems that, unfortunately, have been a problem here for decades and have been trying to solve. I must also point out that all the laws that have passed through this Parliament and those which are in the procedure must meet two conditions in order to enter into and deal with quality foreign policy in a segment of economic relations, which is the law must comply with EU laws, a principle that must be respected. It must also be in line with the European Charter of Human Rights and all other laws dealing with the segment of human rights and freedoms. And of course standardisation in areas where it is important must be said in that segment in line with European and world standards. I hope that we are the soots that we have brought so far in this context, but my point to this is actually that the laws that are in the procedure are certainly meant by this. I think it would be very useful to cut off the work so far on the legislation that was in this House. You know, we've found some legal solutions that haven't been passed, which have been in the process for a long time. As an MP, I have to say, I don't know what level we've come to with that resolution. How many laws are left, which are in the procedure, downloaded in one way or another, which dynamics are foreseen for their adoption? And here I am using the opportunity to reactivate the request in a certain way, because it was already brought here at the House of Representatives once to create an update of the materials that are in the procedure. Coordination at all levels is necessary. A much better quality and preparation for parliamentary issues, agenda and everything else related to the work of this Parliament must be synchronised not only with the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and Parliament, but also with all specific committees dealing with certain problems. The European experiences are primarily in this sense that the problems that Parliament is dealing with are being addressed at Commission level and are practically offered to Parliament in one final form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5554	Thank you very much. Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5555	Dear Mr. Belkić, honourable ministers, MPs, guests and journalists. I'm going to try to be very brief and actually say something that I think should be said for this speaker, and yet no one has said it. I accept the Presidency's proposal and the Commission's proposal and we will probably all vote for it. However, I want to say some things that I feel obliged to say as an MP, because when we talk about Bosnia and Herzegovina and the place of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the international community in Europe and in the world, we are full of the mouth of Europe and the world. One is a fact that we all need to know. The world and Europe want an orderly state. Europe will not accept an unsettled state in its society. We're always talking about Europe, and we all know perfectly well that we're not an orderly country. Otherwise, in an orderly state, those things couldn't happen. Just open today's paper so you can see, you'll get it all figured out. There's no such thing in an orderly state. You know the hierarchy and you know the order. We don't know the order. We are in charge of this parliament as MPs to talk about this order and to create a political environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be a state-organised. 68 I will give two examples from today's newspaper. One example of information that one entity has parallel representations, something parallel to the ministries that the Foreign Ministry has. Offices in Moscow, Belgrade, Greece. And we have as far as I know, the embassy in Moscow, as far as I know, we have an embassy in Beogrd. I don't know if we have an embassy in Greece. I know Greece is here. But that's not how it works. Other information today in today's paper. The Minister of Defense of the Federation went to Israel in this time, yesterday, the day before today, it doesn't matter when. The president and vice president of the Federation don't know he went there. It can't be done. The world is watching. There's no way anyone can go without his superior knowing it. It's an unsettled state. That's where the world normally looks and says. So look how they behave? That's not how he can behave and it can't be. Full of the mouth of Europe, and do the opposite. It's just impossible. Or, I was in this delegation, even though we haven't filed a report yet. I'm sure Mr Mirjanić will, in consultation with the others, file a report to this Parliament on our trip to Brussels, but I can't help but mention here today and tell you that we've received very clear suggestions from all people, and the dreams were matched by the very responsible people of the NATO Pact for Partnership for Peace from the EU, all told us one - state, state, state, state, state-of-the-art state. That's the way to Europe. And we don't have another one. I can't understand that there are other political forces that can defend what doesn't defend Yugoslavia anymore. Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav authorities delivered Milošević to The Hague, admitted in a certain indirect manner to aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can't admit it here. Yugoslavia is likely to join the Partnership for Peace next January, probably. We will not, if we do this to ourselves very successfully, work against ourselves for 10 years in the Partnership for Peace and in the EU for 20 years. That is why I am asking all of you here to be present, I am asking the executive authority from the Presidency to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers, to report to this Parliament on these extreme situations. No one can tell me. I am for Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to make sure that Bosnia and Herzegovina is truly open to all countries in the world, well-intentioned. Normally, first we have to have, to build good relationships with our neighbors. It's perfectly normal, but we can't forget what happened now. Someone who has sinned against Bosnia and Herzegovina should answer. They admitted they were wrong, sent their Milošević to The Hague. Admit it, and we can't admit it. We have to have a consensus about it here. And the sooner it is, trust everyone, the better. Not to one individual or to one nation or to one citizen, or to one social class, but to all, it is better, because we will create preconditions for a step towards that Europe. I want us to have good relations with Evropa and go into European integration. I want us to have good relations with the Eastern countries, with Islamic countries with the countries of Asia, with the countries of Africa. That's what we need. I sometimes have the impression that some of these relationships that were excellent have never heard of any Muslim, Islamic state, Muslim country that is against Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is always every one for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It means for all citizens and all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. She never said she was only for Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, of these relations good with Islamic countries, everyone should benefit well in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then why do we give ourselves a very successful car goals and make ourselves a fantastic friend of people who will look at us reserved. What do we need? What we need, is that done with the knowledge of, say, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I doubt it, but who pulls 69, which is the body in Bosnia, if it is not the Presidency, if it is not the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which creates the foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It can't be created by an individual. It cannot be created by one political party. It needs to be created by the state. And that's why my suggestions in this respect are to go, it seems to me in the only way, that's the only way to go the right way, and I'm really asking for the responsibility of this Parliament -- that people are responsible for the excesses that people in Brussels, Strasbourg and the world's metropolis are still looking at us other eyes, because we are there, it's very clearly shown to us in these 2-3 days when we were up there. On one we are now not to say where, it will be in the report along with the Vatican and Monak. And you know what to do with them? What the Vatican and Monaco will always be who they are, because they don't go into these integrations. So all the other states are here but we're gone. We're just gone. What's wrong with us? Are we partly the bearers of guilt for that? I don't want to carry the blame for that. I want us to step forward in this regard and make this Parliament and everyone sitting in it responsible for what Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world is going to go to Europe with speedy steps towards countries to be spoken of with respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5556	Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5557	I want to say that I've made myself perfectly clear. There is no general agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina to launch a lawsuit against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And I think that's definitely clear. And the other thing is, it is not true that Yugoslavia, or Serbia, has handed over Mr Milošević to The Hag for admitting aggression rather than handing him over to The Hag for conflict in Kosovo, and the suit against Mr Milošević was later filed for aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think, that is, conflict.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5558	Thank you. Mr. Jovanović, allow me. Allow me two sentences to be properly informed. In Brussels, previous days there were several MPs from the House of Representatives. We were invited there. Club heads were invited, instead of some club bosses, club representatives went and other MPs were invited. For your information, I am asking the club chiefs, or representatives of the clubs that were in Brussels to inform the clubs, or MPs in the clubs what was the subject of the conversation. Allow me in one sentence to say the exact subject of the talks, which is the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the process of European integration. We talked about it. The subject of the debate was not political personality. During the talks, neither the hosts nor any MPs from Bosnia and Herzegovina mentioned any political figure, nor the subject of the talks were The Hague tribunal, nor the International Court of Justice in The Hague. So we didn't talk about it, we only talked about the positions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the process of European integration. And that there are different approaches and views on some issues, among other things on the issue of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, it is obvious that if we open that issue we will not agree on and I suggest that we focus on what is the subject of our talks. Mr. Šarganović Senad answered the word. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5559	Mr. Members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs we have received quality material from the Presidency, we have witnessed that lately our presidency is more uniquely even more and more we could say is uniquely acting on the external political scene, to achieve better and better results for Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a member of the Presidency has reported to us. And I think it's a very good step for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so it should continue and intensify such an activity. As far as the Bureau's materials are concerned, I would like to point out two, three priorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Banjpolitika. On the third side, it writes the active participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in multilateral actions, particularly within the UN system, etc. in crisis parts of the world, I would suggest that the Presidency try to initiate that Bosnia and Herzegovina participates more actively with foreign policy in actively helping solve crises in crisis areas such as the Middle East and Afghanistan, given that Bosnia and Herzegovina is with all capacities in the anti-terrorism coalition. And this next conclusion of the Partnership for Peace, I believe, I've been informed that there's no problem with any conditions to refer observers to a partnership for peace. Surely the delegation that was now in Brussels has been notified. I propose that the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs instruct observers in the Partnership for Peace because we will benefit from this Partnership for Peace, because there are hundreds and hundreds of programmes and projects that need to help us in the future concept of the Joint Army, in budgeting budget control, training, doctrines, etc. I don't think we have any obstacles here and it could be one of the steps that can be taken. And lastly, this conclusion – protecting the interests of BiH citizens abroad. We are informed that the Council of Ministers is working actively to improve the visa regime for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the natural entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think there should be commendable expressions about these activities. But the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and economic operators want a faster solution to visa regimes. I can say that economic operators have problems with normal functioning and communication with Evropa, as they banish visas, and the executive managers of very significant companies cannot easily reach visas for Western Europe. I would suggest that it be one of the priorities. It's about these materials. And as for the Commission, I must certainly say that I support these materials and that they are very high-quality. As far as the Commission is concerned, under this third conclusion, on the other hand, I would also suggest that the Commission work on its conclusions later and ask for a representative, an observer in a partnership for peace. It's the same explanation as I explained for these Bureau conclusions. And this third floor conclusion – I would suggest that it stands instead of – "the House of Representatives is required" to stand in the introduction of "the House of Representatives is proposed". It kind of turns out that the Commission is asking all of us that we've proposed to the Commission, and somehow that sounds a little bit of what we're ordering. And I normally support these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5560	Thank you very much, Mr. Šargaović. Mr. Begović Muhamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5561	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I don't blame the presidency even though I've raised my hand before and asked for it, it probably didn't notice, so I want to let it know, though, it's probably a mistake. I support the Commission's conclusions on foreign affairs with the correction proposed by Mr Šarganović. I am truly surprised at the discussions of some who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina and are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, over whom the Constitution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is hovering, and they would like to go about some kind of compromise that is contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the opposite of what victims have fallen for, is the opposite of the referendum of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who declared that in 92 on the form of a state order, etc. However, it expresses my disagreement, and I would not like to comment further if I did not have to go out as if I were replicating. In 92, gentlemen, we held a referendum and declared ourselves state-of-the-art. It was followed by Dejton, and I don't know if, whether it was a competent committee, these representatives who still acted against the will of citizens who have declared themselves a form of direct democracy, which is how the state order wants. We have declared it to be a democratic republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Democratic Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as such accepted by the UN and registered as such as the sovereign state. Today, individuals would like to devalue it all by being guided by some kind of interest whether nationalist not national, whether nationalist or extremely extreme interests are above all below. Gentlemen's entities have the right to co-operate with their neighbours, but with the prior consent of the competent state authorities, the competent state authorities. Look at the Constitution and you'll see for yourself. However, a question arises which entity is ours demands the consent of the competent authority to be able to contact its neighbours in practice, what is happening today. That's why I'm really pretty hit, 'cause I have to let you know that I, too, that my family and the rope and the wider gave nine victims for what's going on today. I do not believe and admit any scientific thesis that exists in the theory of the state and the right of such a form of arrangement as... Vice-President of the European Initiative, pardon a little crisis group in Tuzla, has also made it clear that there is no such arrangement in the theory of state and law that we have with 180 ministers, with so many deputies, with so many levels of decision-making why I didn't know either. I've reached five levels of decision-making, and that's a horror of what's going on. That is why I support the Ministry's conclusions, this Foreign Affairs Commission, and especially the Bureau's material. I'm surprised why there aren't two members of the presidency here, don't come often to meetings. The only one coming here is Mr. Beriz Belkić, and it seems to me they owe the Constitution to come, not to send any representatives, no deputies. Because it is not foreseen by the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5562	Thank you very much. One piece of information. I spoke with Mr. Križanović, the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency today. He asked him to come to this session, but Mr. Križanović informed me that he could not come for certain reasons and that on behalf of the Presidency he would speak to a member of the presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić. 72 The word has Mr. Grabovac the Miro.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5563	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office Mr. Belkić, esteemed journalists. Of course, we should welcome the debate on foreign policy, but also, regardless of the obligations, we should criticise other members of the Presidency for which they are not there, they should have been here as the Foreign Minister, since the topic concerning both the Ministerial Council and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, and the complete parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the total of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is certainly necessary to welcome the way of efforts to establish parliamentary oversight in the executive bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities and this is from the beginning which is both important and necessary to know where this country is going and what it wants and what it wants to be. The foreign ministry, or foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is indeed a reflection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal policy, then we are not surprised that it has all its policies both outside and outside, and that is something that is not good for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and its peoples and citizens. Both she and how it should be harmonised and established to be a common state policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It should certainly also be welcomed to the Foreign Affairs Commission, which has reached conclusions on the fight against terrorism, which is currently in the truth what the whole world is fighting and it should have been as a conclusion under number one, although it is given in the opening text of this part, but it seems to me at least personally to be mentioned that part by the way or by the way, and condemned because Bosnia and Herzegovina is such that it Jovanović the Alliance to fight terrorism. When it comes to these points under 1.2.3. concerning the entry of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Council of Europe, we certainly have a lot of deception here. A lot of people don't understand what the Council of Europe is, which is the EU and then those skilled politicians say that people say here we are going to be in the EU soon. And that has nothing to do with it. The EU, or VTO, is quite different from the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is certainly in the interest of the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina to be its member so that we can jointly protect our rights through the Council of Europe, both individual and collective rights within Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to this point one, it can stand, although I might compare the points differently, but it's my personal vision and point two when it comes to these when elections are going to be the same thing is also important. But one thing that's very important is to open this whole part. So it's a fight against terrorism, and this point is the 3rd point, it should be point 2 which speaks of Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the Partnership for Peace. What does it mean to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Partnership for Peace? And there's a lot of different stories there and they say here we're going to learn they're going to see us and there's no problem about it. NATO has established this part of joining the Partnership for Peace so that it can establish an umbrella, i.e. NATO member supervision and beyond to stabilise peace throughout the world, especially in this part of Southeast Europe. And he is certainly interested in making Bosnia and Herzegovina a member of the Partnership for Peace. 73 When it comes to being an observer, we were truly released, and we had not met certain conditions, and they let us be observers within the Partnership for Peace. I hear here that we should send someone to sit there. That can't go because it's a whole different thing. We need to be within the Partnership for Peace and then just get our seat at NATO's reminder so we can have a representative from Bosnia and Herzegovina. What do we do to be and get the conditions for a Partnership for Peace? We need to achieve interoperability in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to armed forces. To achieve this, we must first achieve this interoperability in our heads within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Everything else goes quite differently, going in a far better and more handsome way. If we are not prepared for this, Bosnia and Herzegovina will indeed remain one, they did not want to express themselves, I will say a black hole in part of Southeast Europe and a barrel of gunpowder for further conflicts both here and there. To even talk about VTO and the EU, certainly the first step and the small door is a Partnership for Peace so that EU countries can create assumptions for EU countries so that they can invest their capital in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course no one will, no one will come to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there is no security, and capital is looking for security. And who is it that would come to Bosnia and Herzegovina, invest their assets, enter capital or which are banks that could open up investment loans and which can be guaranteed when there can be a conflict again in the morning. So what do we have to do? We must first reshuffle the armed forces within Bosnia and Herzegovina's entities. The second thing we need to do is achieve what I said about the interoperability of the armed forces. We must really prepare these forces. So we are not asked for a full, at least minimum force that we can include in NATO missions or the EU that would represent Bosnia in Herzegovina. NATO wants only one phone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that must be clear to all. Which will be and who will determine and how we will negotiate these are our inner matters. No matter how long we drag it, we'll have a bigger problem here. We can transfer both this and that injustice. So the sooner we achieve internal arrangements and solve internal problems inside, the more we achieve as a state, the more we open up to the world and the world towards us. As long as it's not, we can just pour ourselves out of the hollow into empty expressions like that. And it's not good for anyone who's here individually or collectively for the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I really support these conclusions so as not to take up more time and talk about it, because most of you know what the Partnership for Peace means, which means VTO, or the EU, which are the ways to come, and most of us think that the public needs to explain what the Council of Europe is, and what it is, that the European Union does not simply commit deception in public and we say here tomorrow we will be admitted. We cannot be admitted to the VTO or the EU by my judgments if we continue to leave now in 15 years, because we need to coordinate the economy and prepare an economy for entry into such an organisation. Otherwise they'll wipe us out. The other no one will come into our country to invest until we are truly minimal in the Partnership for Peace. It's the minimum minimum that can be done. This can be achieved if we can really agree on the reconstruction of the military and the establishment of a joint or joint command at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a prerequisite for accession to the Partnership for Peace. I therefore support these conclusions by proposing to the Commission if there is a pause to make this conclusion that is related to terrorism, because it is very important and to put it first and then to sort it out, if someone has a second proposal, and my proposal is terrorism, the Partnership for Peace, or the Council of Europe, the Partnership for 74 Peace, and then when it comes to this further part of the order, it is not important at all how it will be, at least to gain one weight. That's how much thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5564	Thank you, Mr. Titan. Replica Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5565	The esteemed representative Titan has really constructively exposed certain things. I've been decident and clear and I'm standing behind that proposal of mys. No conditions should continue to be met by Bosnia and Herzegovina to direct an active observer to the Partnership for Peace that would help us to resolve what you just lied about. But a normal joint command at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, serious military accession in order to create a common army, later a single army, etc. It's a normal approach not to elaborate on this right now. But one step at a time should be taken decisively, so I also praised the activities of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and that we too should engage in even more actively all together and that the enormous energy we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have only proved it in the right direction that we have just spoken. To get those deadlines so we don't be 15 years 10 but to cut deadlines. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5566	Mr. Salih Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5567	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Belkić, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I first of all went out for this pay phone to support this document that we could discuss before us, in fact propose that he would later come up with this as he intended. Of course, I would also like to accept at this meeting today the conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which I am a member of, but would allow me to point out something that I had the opportunity to speak at a round table held in Tuzla and related to Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomacy in the function of economic development. I, at the time, pointed out and wanted to say and now, I think that this document is necessary, so if a broader definition of foreign policy was accepted as an action by the state in international relations with other countries and international organisations on a political, economic and cultural and other plan, then first, in the case of our Bosnia and Herzegovina, the issue of the single state and the consensus reached on the external political plan would be raised. Based on the information available in this area, much will be needed, we well know, in order to achieve economic objectives as dominant in international frameworks. Earlier in terms of economic statehood, the role of the country in the world economy, it will be necessary to build an efficient political economic instrument. In this document, some of it in that section about economic nature, it seems to me that some of it was said there. I would like to remind you that, unlike the developed countries that are considering the dynamic development of a small country like ours, Bosnia and Herzegovina have different economic development problems. Through foreign trade, they seek to achieve transition goals and to provide support for their development. In addition, 75 more active foreign policy must be conducted tailored to the interests of the country and synchronised with economic political activities on the internal agenda. All of this should be known to foreign and internal policy makers, and so diplomacy should be conceived in this economic sphere, i.e. economic function, and all in the interest of our country's economic development and its faster incorporation into global economic flows. And something else at the end of this parliamentary diplomacy would be good and I hope that when we absorb this item of the agenda today, we will know exactly what it is to which of us to do when it comes to the implementation of foreign policy and these outlined tasks. I think so far, at least what I've been following, let me use the word that there's been a lot of confusion and that what someone's saying today, that in the talks, that members of the delegations, of course, are all MPs, but take care of the topic on which the talks are being held, and so choose these delegations and that would establish a common platform and perform in that direction. There's so much for now. Thank you, so this document could be accepted today, at least as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5568	Thank you, Mr. Kulenović. Mr. Baković Mirko.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5569	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I agree with all views on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy with the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the conclusions of our commission and its views. But let me, despite all that, say a few words. I will not discuss it in a salon way, the salon diplomacy has always been foreign to me, and I think that in 50% sense, it is a barren job, but I will make a few observations concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and its foreign policy. Actually, in my opinion, foreign policy doesn't exist. Foreign policy is just another name for internal policy, as Klauzerić said – peace is the continuation of war only by other means. And then according to that, if Bosnia and Herzegovina, and she even though many represent it, I mean justifiably, in this case Mr. brkati was saying, I agree in a lot of ways. What is required that once Bosnia and Herzegovina has perhaps in full terms the attributes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the attributes of the state, it does not have it yet. She has no power, no political power, no financial power, no institutional power, no infrastructure power. That's the power entities have. And now the question arises in this regard, if Bosnia and Herzegovina as such is leading foreign policy and if these policies are given to it, which is perfectly normal to be, how can this foreign policy be successful, effective and effective if it does not stand behind it in a traditional sense, the power of a country as such. And I think that one day it would have to be clear that we know how things are, because in this kind of perspective, legal and political, I don't think it's going to be long enough to live. We live both in Dejton and against Dejton today. We don't really know how we live, do we? On the basis of what kind of code is living politically in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. what is said to be a social and legal life. Entities do their thing. Melje and Republika Srpska on their field and the Melje and the Federation on their ground. And they don't Dejton to each other. Because after Dayton, for example. Countys have many competences, but now as things stand they don't. I therefore believe that through the symposium, through the legal committees, through the OHR, through Parliament 76 must be resolved once, so that things are known. Because if we have the diplomacy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if there is no will for power behind it, if there is no real state power behind it, and there is no, then I wonder how this diplomacy will work successfully and how it will carry out its mission. And I mean no offense to this party or that party, or the nation, etc. that one should solve that question. Well said here by one previous speaker that nowhere in the world we don't have this way of solving the state's structure. We have some states there. The Federation of States, the Republic of States, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, in fact, does not have an attribute of the state in its name, but it is now more like some kind of semi-terrestrial concept or some administrative concept, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina was becoming perhaps before the new era, etc. But we don't know if it's a monarchy, whether it's a republic, whether it's this or that, etcetera. So it's missing and it needs to be solved. Because we're here, at least we're this living generation, maybe she'll solve it the next day, too, but that should do it. You just need to know what we're on and what we want. I say good is all this stuff that's done, etc. But once I got the impression that many people, that many parties, that many current politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina simply deliberately avoid answering this question and deliberately do not want to deal with these problems. But maybe they're waiting for something special to happen, etc. But that should get rid of it once and for all... We have a question, for example. The Hague court. In The Hague, we have the same thing in the Federation or, for example, in the Federation, President Behmen provides guarantees of bond guarantee for General Halilović and I don't know who else. However, why not give guarantees to some of the Croatian generals, etc. Because we have to have equal access to things. Dake to participate in solving all this. And we must once tell everyone, we must feel Bosnia and Herzegovina as our country, as our country. Maybe it's because it's the most natural thing, and maybe it's because there's no other thing but that kind of thing, so if that's how it is, let's just give you a handle on these things. But this... and this they create an alliance with this, those with that etc. So, after all, I don't know what we're doing here. Then we're just verbally experiencing nothing else. I think I'm right and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5570	Thank you. Mr. Borić Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5571	Dear MPs, members of the presidency, Mr Belkić, members of the Council of Ministers. It was nice to hear from Mr. Titan and Mr. Baković today. I think they're in rhetoric today, and I think that's how I really do think they've taken one step further from the Alliance when it comes to the place and role of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world and its perspective. I'm really glad to hear them. I was very pleased to hear from Mr Belkić, who said that 30% of the budget was intended for foreign policy management, and we heard today, we also heard that indeed foreign policymaking in a large part depends on opportunities in the country one, on its economic situation, so he would agree with those MPs who had pleigned that the country should push life forward for the Bosnian man to live better, and then it would probably be better and foreign policy. However, he would agree that, with the exposure of Belkić to the entry into the Council of Europe, the Partnership for Peace, the continuation of the work of the Interstate Council and the gift of destinations with ambassadors in those places, as he pointed out where it was not done. So, despite all this, the Members' Club stands at the point of accepting 77 and the general frameworks of foreign policy management that, as well as the Commission's request for foreign policy, which, according to the assessment of the Members' Club, is practically decentralisation or democratisation of foreign policy management and an attempt to bring these important issues, an important topic closer to and an ordinary man through this commission, or through this representative home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5572	Thank you, too. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5573	I wouldn't answer, I thought you'd be told, but you didn't. I don't like to be over-expanded, I'd like to be brief, concise and so, that's my job. But here's because no one mentioned it here, and it's not particularly highlighted in the principles of foreign policy. He thinks he deserves attention from some NGOs who are and how important the ambassadors of this country are outside. Take, for example. sports and culture. Please, we haven't said a word about it. I think we should take care of that too, so when it comes to going out of our country. Here's an example, a foot-and-mouth alliance, a selection of selectors. Please. I think that the state authorities in charge of this area should at least take account of some of the guidelines and what needs to be discussed. So maybe there's my suggestion that these principles should also be highlighted by these NGOs. And maybe an appeal from this place to get as soon as possible, see how much that law, the law on sports at the state level, not to speak to the Olympic Committee, etc. We want the Olympics, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we want it, we With absolutely, since I'm also a health care worker to support my colleague, Cuplov, on healthcare, but that's what we're gonna do at some of the next sessions. We'll work out what we'll do, a little bit about health care, etc. I think they're very interesting topics and they shouldn't just be missed without anyone saying anything about it. It's my suggestion. No, I'm not proposing to anyone, I'm proposing to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5574	Thank you very much. Does one of the MPs answer? I'd, well, we'll figure out who's gonna be the selector. Just a little bit, please. In the Commission's proposal for a conclusion, a series is set up that when the House adopts, then it is quite different, then it is the House's attitude towards the Council of Ministers. There's a series of demands. I would ask the foreign minister's representative, Deputy Foreign Minister Ivica Mišić, if he wants to take his word, or if you don't think it's necessary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5575	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think Mr Belkić practically said in his opening note a whole series of important notes about this document, which is the Presidency's document. We are here from the Council of Ministers, especially me and Mr. Rasim Kadić, who most tangs this segment of your debate today, closely followed, looked at the conclusions. I think this was an inspiring debate, that this was one of the more useful discussions I attended in this house, and we will make sure that, practically, in the application of the principles and objectives that we have set out, which 78 of the Presidency defined, adopted and established in the external political platform, we implement in our daily activities. This is true, therefore, not only for what the Commission for the Foreign House of Representatives proposed as conclusions but also for a whole series of discussions here, in which one was recognised, would say almost universal support in fact and indeed general support for this is what the platform is, which is the basic directions and objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy in this year. Especially the lower clear statements without full support from the state, without the institutions of the system, foreign policy can hardly be effective and effective. So the rest of the rest of the world, although here my minister has arrived here to thank all the representatives and all of you who have made this document, would say with all responsibility and very competently discuss it, support it. We at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs certainly feel as our obligation and it seems to me for the first time in an absolutely positive atmosphere we approach to say now the implementation and practical application of this, up to, would not enter into any issue raised here as problems. We will also explore and see them, but it is no doubt that we must move towards a single conduct of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy and bring all those flows down and contribute to that policy in one month in one main course. Once again, I thank you very much for provoking me here to say these few words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5576	I just thought I should give you my word, because there was, there was such a debate. A member of the Bureau should be given a word, but a member of the Bureau speaks at the end. Here you go, Mr. Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5577	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I express my special satisfaction with the overall debate, the quality of the debate, and I thank you for all the suggestions and suggestions. I would like to point out that in the introduction, I have said that this proposal is subject to all possible changes. We don't insist on certain terms of expressions, etc. Our starting point in this, I repeat, was first – to guard the traps that we define the tasks of the House, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Presidency. I think we've come up with that correctly. Secondly, the fundamental objective that led us to insist on this debate is to speed up Bosnian Herzegovina's steps towards all possible integrations. So within the framework and full functioning of all bodies within the competences defined by the Constitution. The conclusions have been made in line with Article 80. Rules of Procedure of the House where it says - The House performs a. legislative, b. informative, c. supervisory, d. internal regulation. Or are literally based on the responsibilities of the House and they contain questions from the jurisdiction of the House. So we want these conclusions, this debate, that the issues of foreign policy management are at least located in the House in a parliamentary exchange and that they become property of the House of Representatives and each representative individually. That's why we're, that's to make this an algorithm of our activities next year. I mean the Commission. The Commission’s activities. Now, why did we not conclude these issues more precisely, the fight against terrorism. Because we simply think it's more of an executive or some of the other bodies that run this business. Yes, it is. It simply means that House 79 is practically unburdened by whether these issues are. It was this observation by two representatives, point 3. You can't be asked of us. I'm asking you to read it again. We quote – The House of Representatives is required to reiterate the notice of MPs. Be careful that the House today emphasizes the obligation of representatives to us, not the House, members of permanent and occasional delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to deliver the platform of performances and to deliver a report to highlight this responsibility, because objectively this responsibility has not been practiced and expressed in the House and in these permanent bodies. So, I don't think there's really anything here. This is based on Article 37. The Rules of Procedure under point f., which states that the Commission is considering the functioning of those bodies. We have no idea what who's out there and how it works. Not only the commission, but I want to say that we are all in a certain way today, especially abroad, gentlemen of diplomats and representatives of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's our wish, I emphasized that there we are recognizable as individuals, not party-colored people. And here when it comes to foreign policy, it talks about foreign policy and state representation. I said that in my introduction. Said, that's a very important thing. I wouldn't talk, I'm not like that right now that I'm talking about some practical gaff issues, leaks, messages in the media, etc. a message to itself, to the public, to the House and to the state and to the other state, etc., which individuals allow themselves. I, regardless of it, see that there is a mood for you to adopt these conclusions only to give the Commission more tasks that we are willing to accept for ourselves in the coming year. We'll definitely program that in our work. And, despite not answering Mr. President again, I would ask that the outcome of this debate be the acceptance of another personal conclusion, this proposal, which is that the phonogram of the debate from today's foreign policy session be taken down in full and delivered to the Foreign Affairs Commission and if it has any interest, therefore the Presidency and the Foreign Ministry. The Commission will withdraw any proposal from today's debate in the course of its activities, i.e. to take place where possible in the overall activity. I think the debate has given a lot of messages, positive messages for the issue of foreign policymaking in Parliament to be a question of the domain of competence and its functions. That if we were still to have that phonogram done by the new year, then we would really have the basis to say, and after the debate in Parliament, gentlemen are our assignments and so will we. Thank you. If you give it to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5578	Thank you very much, Mr. Amidžić. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, he would ask a member of Mr. Belkić's presidency to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5579	Thank you very much. I'll try to bring out some of my impressions at the shortest. The most important thing that I've experienced here today is that there's a general concept that foreign policy is a state's first priority. I sincerely hope that both homes of this parliament will give that support and that force Mr Baković spoke. All these comments, suggestions, etc. With due attention, the Bureau will, of course, also consider further activities, because it is a document that is always exposed to the need to agree, because relations are constantly changing and there is no reason for terrorism and when it comes to these NGOs, the areas of health and all that is said today. So I express great satisfaction with the seriousness and way of discussing such an important document and this basic tone given 80 in the debate. So it's about the State's first priority business, and I expect that we will all give together the strength that is necessary for this job to be successfully realised. Of course, I could give you some information. We have a military representative in Brussels. Of course, his now priorities finally and work on following the guidelines for joining the Partnership for Peace, etc. So there are resources you just need to know how to use them and give them priorities. When it comes to the presence of Assembly meetings by the Bureau, I must inform you that we already have such an atmosphere in the Presidency that it is not always necessary that we are all three here because it is quite irrational and we will each agree on behalf of the Presidency. And when it comes to replacements, I am absolutely against and I am respecting the position of members of the Bureau I will never allow myself to send anyone to this assembly, as far as my position is concerned. It's a matter of Parliament and your Rules of Procedure to regulate it. Do you accept replacements or not? I told you my opinion and one answer to Mr Kovačević who asked directly if this is Kasim Trnka suing Yugoslavia? Kasim Trnka does not sue Yugoslavia, Kasim Trnka is a representative or in the legal terminology of the Justice Court in The Hague, an agent appointed by the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for this type of business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5580	Thank you very much. If you do. Mr. Kovačević, please, if you have a question, you can go out for the pay phone, if you don't, then let's move on. Please make a brief clarification. Today, we had a quality debate on the Presidency's document on the basic headings and principles of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy and I think we have referred a number of quality remarks and suggestions to the Presidency and, of course, we expect the members of the presidency, Mr Belkić, to meet the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are, no problem, if this is a request from the Presidency we will send a stenogram from today's session. We had before us a report from the Commission, or a proposal for the Commission's conclusion, of our Commission on Foreign Affairs, on which one, again in my opinion, is a quality debate with a number of remarks, proposals, suggestions. We have two options, or we should tell the Commission, and what if I understood correctly, or if we in the College understood well, we have now consulted, the President of the Commission has expressed his individual position in which he has shown great interest in what was said today in the debate, even asked for a stenogram. We believe that this College of the House of Representatives believes that this approach is good and we would then suggest the following – that a stenogram from today's session on this item of the agenda should be delivered to the Foreign Affairs Commission, that the Foreign Affairs Commission, on the basis of what MPs have said and proposed today, commented, and we think that there were really quality proposals, put it in the conclusions and that these conclusions are delivered to us, if possible for the 19th session. So, I can't say for 18, because 18, we continue after 17, but that the Commission delivers it to us, if possible, for the 19th session. And there's a little timing that needs to be fixed, because let's say the information activity of the Council of Ministers is asked to draw up a plan at the end of 2001, etc., and we know that this is already a little bit, the timing is like this, the time is such that it's hard to do. So I am not explaining the position of the College is to refer all of this to the Commission, to the Commission at this House already at its 19th session with an updated, revised 81 proposal for conclusions, depending on today's debate. Is the Commission able to do this for the 19th session, Mr Amidžić?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5581	Let me make maybe one precedent, so I can make my point. So as an agent, I don't think there were any dissonant tones at all in the debate on either the basic directions or the conclusions. And I don't think there's really a need for us to go back to work this wide-accepted material. And as for the timing in that conclusion, I'm saying the conclusion, not the conclusions, because that's the rules of procedure. However much the Council of Ministers can achieve both a month and two in breaking deadlines doesn't matter at all, we've given these deadlines as something we expect, something we thought might already exist in making, etc. and that it might be... So we can make a deal, let's tell all the deadlines to be moved there by month, if that's the problem, that they're not decadent until the end. But if there is agreement, co-operation, communication, and that these goals will be achieved. It is less important whether we achieve it in the second or fourth months, than to go back to some special conversation about guessing about the deadlines that are also unfavourable and expecting, and not necessarily. Furthermore, this conclusion does not have the power of any legal act to be published in the official newspaper, etc. and edit it and now, as some legal basis, determine it for our work. He has some political guidelines for us to the Commission and the overall House and would be most grateful means to accept this general direction, to accept the conclusion and the full debate we will have today through a stenogram as the basis for the activities of the House Commission. And there were individual questions, etc. which we will not treat, because it is not Parliament's jurisdiction. We will deal with those issues that are within the competence of the Commission and Parliament. And I'm not running away from it if Dom pleads otherwise. It's for us to do what we do, and we can figure it out together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5582	Thank you very much. A colleague named Ljubić called, but one explanation, I don't think there would be any confusion. I've said it several times, but obviously, we may not understand each other, and so said Mr. Belkić in his presentation. We're not adopting the Presidency's document today, please. We can already plead, we have been having a debate, but we are pleading, or the subject of our statement may be a proposal for the conclusion of our commission. So we must respect the Constitution's prescribed jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Lubić, here you go, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5583	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives, as far as I'm concerned, I can accept that we also make a statement about such conclusions, but I think it would be good for the Foreign Affairs Commission, whose member I am, to say the technical order of these certain sentences, some solutions. I say to me some words are too hard, we demand... but that it does not prevent us today from declaring this conclusion, better words of these conclusions, and normally from today's debate, I think it will follow new conclusions and I think thematically in certain chapters, in certain areas, and that out of this it will come out a whole new document that will treat both the economic sphere, how the political sphere. All the other worlds that are in this one to say in one conclusion globally. So I say, I suggest, if here is the House and the Commission, it means 82 to empower the Commission to carry out the redecoration, to say some technical transformation, and to vote today. Maybe there's no need to delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5584	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5585	Well, I don't know, 'cause I don't think there's gonna be any conclusions. There's one conclusion that maybe we don't have the right and it's no longer jurisdiction. So it's supervisory activity number two, so it says by the end of May 2002, the BiH mission at the OSCE, which is to say, a technical error is required to provide the House of Representatives with information on the state of the overall preparations for the next parliamentary elections in BiH. I don't think the OSCE is running elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina anymore. So he had an Electoral Commission and that means there's no need for this. Perhaps one, perhaps, would have ended this faster, Mr. President, if we had taken a break of 10-15 minutes, so what we've been saying is that it should be inserted into the fight against terrorism and that this would be thrown out and some other little things if there were, and then we could conclude this and adopt to say very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5586	Thank you, Mr. Jovanović. For certain reasons, the College has proposed that we return this to the Commission. Among other things, what you said to Mr. Jovanović. There are still certain technical inaccuracies. We do not consider these political failures to be purely technical, so we wanted the Commission to correct it and forward it to us for adoption. That is why we thought that we would give the Commission more time for technical corrections, as Col. Ljubić said for the next session or for the Commission to meet in a break and to carry out these technical corrections. Mr. Grabovac answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5587	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I suggest we overcome this crisis, this is not a crisis, but this misunderstanding, given that we have discussed quite well these conclusions and they are certainly our commissions, and by adoption these are the conclusions of the House. They are no longer the Commission if we adopt it. So if we want to adopt these conclusions, these are the conclusions of the House, and they're binding on where the executive part of the authority is. With this I propose that we can globally, the conclusions are well summed up and they covered when it comes to a complete concept and when it comes to the Presidency's document. I propose that we take a half-hour break so that the Commission meets and defines the conclusion number one, which is the conclusion that it has dropped, which I think is a mistake, it is a fight against terrorism. That's the conclusion of terrorism number one. Conclusion number two to be this number one, and three to remain 3, 4, to remain 4, 2 to be 5, and 5 to be 6. And to complete these technical mistakes that were made here and this part of the request. I mean, there's a lot of things about it, you can't ask, if you ask, then you're looking for sanctions, then somehow you need to find a formula in a different way that 83 is more adaptable to communication when it comes to the relation of executive and legislative part of the government. I suggest it be half an hour to give and they can do that part, because they won't change anything anymore. We were only talking about the details of these conclusions that have globally covered all matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5588	Thank you very much, Mr. Grabovac. There is a problem, there is a problem here and the problem here is now suggested by my colleague Avdić to agree on certain, or terms used with the Rules of Procedure, have to fully comply with the Rules of Procedure. But let us not enter at this time not to open the debate, we, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, answered, because Mr. Lagumdžija's portfolio is foreign policy. You'll be good enough to wait for Mr. Chairman to finish, so you'll get your word. I may not have noticed you, you must allow yourself to be undetected, it is not intentional, I simply did not notice you, but if you are patient behind the chairman you will be given the word Mr. Bjelobrk. Thank you very much. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5589	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen and esteemed colleagues, my intervention is only short and I have no intention of talking about what was very exhaustive, because the Council of Ministers was sitting today and we were here in an appropriate manner, but given the fact that it was extremely important matter, given the fact that the debate was quite long, exhaustive, contentive, I do not see any reason why, after such a successful debate, after a great and long work in the Commission for International Politics, after a really great work that had been done for the Presidency to reach a platform that was the basis for all of this, I think that this proposal on an additional half-hour is most said to be relevant. The question is whether you need more than that, but the team about me would just ask you, we were thinking about saying it later when the second session starts, given that now it's half three, that we're going to bring this end of work very quickly today. Since the 18th session should continue after this session, given the very large number of extremely important issues that are on the agenda of the 18th session, given the work plan and the dynamics planned in Parliament, I am using this opportunity to really ask you, on behalf of the entire Council of Ministers, to find additional efforts, the Council of Ministers is at your disposal every day, we will be in full session every day on any basis, on any subject you assess necessary. But there are a very large number of laws at the 18th session, which today obviously won't be able to be even started, and certainly not ended. Since it's in your work plan, we haven't been able to get any information on when it was planned to agree on the next session. Since there is a mass of things behind the agenda of the 18th session that stand in line, and given the fact that there are a large number of packages from the economic sphere, a large number of packages from the domains of meeting the conditions for travel, the conditions for access to European integration, I would really ask you, this is one appeal to all of you that 84 task the College to find ways for Parliament to be in session all those days apart from holidays, all holidays. That's it, but there's really so much to it, and I mean, I know people are a little bit nervous after what's been a long time, it's been a long discussion. I think it's very good that the long discussion was this sort of thing. And we'd better talk about other things. We have the Civil Service Act, the state service that we need to pull out of the agenda because there's been a blockade within our alignment and work so that we can get out of this whole cycle that we do. There are a lot of procedural things that we sometimes impose on ourselves because of our indetermination. The result is that we will be late with a mass of legislative activities. I would therefore ask you to try to find a way for Parliament to be as high as possible in the next year's session. I repeat, the Council of Ministers is once again ready for a continuous session, for continued work with you to get as far as possible a better solution. But I really ask you to understand this in one way well-intentioned, well-intentioned. We have a problem with a large number of your activities that are certainly good at promoting Bosnia and Herzegovina out there, but I really think as foreign minister that you do great things by representing our country out there. And that's very good. However, it would be good, Bogićević tells me that we are representing inside. I think we should all represent her a little bit more and more inside. As foreign minister, I think about foreign policy. But I'm trying to work on a home stage to better lead foreign policy. I'm asking you to take this seriously after all. But seriously, I think it's for the good of all of us. Mr. Jovanović has asked several questions, Mr. Kovačević, when we will talk about economic matters, when we will even have delegate issues that we constantly update to tell you what we have done in the last 100 days. We're just updating, no session. Well, yeah, but it'd be good if you could meet us here for a little while, we're ready for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5590	Thank you very much. For a reason. I'm sorry. Boro Bjelobrk, come in. No, here's to the pay phone, Mr. Boro.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5591	In my best interest, I will say very briefly, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the chair, with all my efforts, I do not understand your intention to conduct the session effectively. My contribution to rationalising today's work is to give up further debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5592	Thank you very much. Our proposal was to consider this Commission, not to take a break, because today we are going to waste time, that was reason and nothing else, and to prepare it for the 19th session. If you'd give me a break now, it would take the Commission half an hour, an hour, and I'm afraid we wouldn't be able to get into the next session. That is the reason, or we have the material, we have more points in today's session, which I cannot bear the delay, please. And we have laws at the 18th session that can't stand the delay. So, by respecting all the rules, every MP's rights to say what he thinks and what 85 no one can deny or deny, and our Rules of Procedure, I repeat, does not limit the time of exposure, does not limit the number of dates. So that's what we have to respect. I suggest that if we can agree that this Commission in peace in silence, here, if necessary, there is no problem with the College of the House of Representatives sitting down, preparing the material and then simply at the 19th session, we do this job slowly, that we do not waste time today. We don't have time. Here you go, Mr. Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5593	I'm sorry, but he understands, so we're all pushing in the same direction and that's good. I'd like to ask you next. Can we give the public, some of your conclusions to the College plus the message we discussed today, what unity we have in relation to foreign policy achieved and what a global relationship compared to the Commission's proposal for a foreign affairs conclusion? If we can do that, then can we accept in that second part of your operation that together the members of the College come to the Commission when we build up, you will be invited. Let's do it as soon as possible, but based on the stenogram from today's session. So whether it's going to be for the 19th or 20th session is less important, but it's important that we today have some form of political unity that in the field of foreign policy we start acting in accordance with the debate and those proposals we heard today. If he can do it, I'll take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5594	Thank you very much to the President of the Commission. Let me just have one statement. Today, none of the MPs disputed either the Presidency's document, nor challenged the Commission's report, but was an affirmative assessment. And this isn't about getting the Commission back on track because it's a bad text, nobody said it. The text has been accepted in principle, the text is good. The Commission has received a number of commendations for its work, but it is only that conscious things are improved. Therefore, it is not negative, but affirmative and would dare to say a very affirmative assessment of the Commission's work. So that's something that seems to me to be said as a general attitude of today's debate and there's no reason for this media transmission. So this is the attitude and the College that I've expressed. I don't think anyone in the MPs is going to argue with this, and I think that's how we can end it. All right. Since, therefore, I pray to the Lord of the Media, and you have an attitude, you have heard. I propose that the Commission, together with the kolegij, prepare this, improve the text, do a little rock change, bring it in line with time. It could be the 19th, it could be the 20th session. We won't insist when we do, but we'll do it as soon as possible. I suggest we move to the next item on the agenda, which is Ad. Ten. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's activities in the Stability Pact for South East Europe 86a) Information on activities in coordination with the Stability Pact, b) Information on implementation of the Project from the Rapid Start of the Stability Pact for South East Europe and c) The basic concept of Bosnia and Herzegovina's activities during the co-chairing of the Stability Pact for South East Europe The material for this point has been obtained earlier. We're moving on to a debate. Please, who's answering for the word? Please, has there been, has the Commission considered this question, whether the Commission has an opening statement? Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any need for an introduction? Here you go, Mr. I raditi Kadić, Ministry of European Integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5595	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, therefore under the Council of Ministers Act, the Ministry of European Integration is coordinating the activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Stability Pact, although the original coordinator of the activities was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs together with the Presidency. In light of the stability pact, the creation of the Stability Pact was sooner than the European Integration Ministry was formed. Otherwise, the Stability Pact is an initiative that celebrated its two-year birthday and is a living regional initiative that brings together Southeast European countries, and is based on a central regional table chaired by a special co-ordinator, which determines the policy, which is established. You've got it here under the heading Strategy Frameworks and key priorities. The Stability Pact implements its activities on the basis of three working tables, 1st, 2nd and 3rd of which is the first working table for democratisation and human rights, the second for economic issues, and the third for defence and security issues. The Stability Pact's main objectives are to strengthen peace, co-operation with countries in the region, the rule of law, human rights, and to increase the general possibilities of each country's individual and regional co-operation, i.e. regional co-operation on the road of all countries individually to bring accession and stabilisation processes with the European Union. Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the fact that the Stability Pact has practically started working after the Sarajevo Summit, has been a very important part of the Stability Pact and we, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina, have taken the Stability Pact and understood and understood as an important regional initiative that Bosnia and Herzegovina has approached without delay. I stress this because many of the Stability Pact's initiatives by some countries have political or any other reservations. And Bosnia and Herzegovina has been very open to both bilateral contacts and multilateral contacts within the Stability Pact and Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of any possible criticism within the Stability Pact remains attached to the basic intensities of the Stability Pact. The regional cooperation initiative in Southeast Europe is what is needed for all countries in this region to increase peace, i.e. to increase regional stabilisation, strengthen economic co-operation, or strengthen all forms of co-operation that we have through each desk, through working groups that you have obtained here, and for which there is no need to stress them in particular. 87 Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this time stresses, seems very important to me that these two topics have finally come together on the agenda, stressing very clear co-operation with neighbours as one of their priorities and within the Stability Pact initiative, but also stresses that regional co-operation is important in all areas especially in some such as the Trade Liberalisation Agreement and in line with the liberalisation of the visa regime, whose initiator is Bosnia and Herzegovina for the countries of Southeast Europe, because if we ourselves cannot fish out trade and visa regime, then the question is how we will go and work towards the countries of the EU. We within the Stability Pact must show that we can co-operate with our neighbours and in the regional frameworks, because this is the best guarantee and the best indicator that we want real co-operation with the current EU countries, and the EU as the largest fund of all activities within the Stability Pact is in fact very clear in the intention that each country individually and all of us, regionally and jointly, financially stimulates our legislation, projects and opportunities to raise to the level that we can be part of that stabilisation and association process in the EU. In this respect, it is important to stress that over the next 5 years, the EU has allocated 4.6 billion euros or more than 10 billion marks for Stabilisation purposes, i.e. strengthening democracy and economic development in the countries of Southeast Europe through so-called "Southeastern Europe". The Karc project and that each country will receive certain funds, but 10% of the funds are purposely determined for so-called. regional projects. The team of the European Commission shows and encourages the countries of the region to connect with each other and in this respect Bosnia and Herzegovina is at the last plenary session of the working table 2 whose co-chair we hosted the agreement and signing of the Sava River Regulatory Agreement as a water facility, which is the interest of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and infrastructure projects in particular in the areas of railways, border crossings and transmission of electricity to Southeast Europe. As you know, the EU has a very strong influenza when it comes to the Stability Pact, because it is the headquarters of the Stability Pact in Brussels, not in the countries of Southeast Europe, and the chairman of all three working tables are individuals from the countries of the European Union, and the countries to which the Pact refers are left to the co-chairs. This shows how serious the EU is approaching regional co-operation and economic development by strengthening peace and democracy in South East Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I repeat, regardless of possible slowdowns, the reduction of cash flow, possible turbulence in the leadership of the Stability Pact, the duplication of certain jobs between the EU and certain initiatives through the Stability Pact, Bosnia and Herzegovina remains open to all initiatives under the Stability Pact in Southeast Europe. Because right now it's a measure of our possible integration. A bit of a joke, or perhaps I should say my point of view, at this point the Stability Pact is our European Union. Here we show how much we can really bring together each of the individual segments that you have seen here, the media, human rights, security, asylum, migration, human trafficking, trade liberalisation and all other things on a regional basis, which will contribute to what I think and those objectives from the foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina that have been adopted here, that is, today under the previous agenda. Regardless of the change in human leadership, the relationship in the leadership of the Stability Pact, I hope that the Stability Pact will remain a living mechanism through which the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina entity co-ordinated by this ministry together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all other ministries at the state level will remain a very close partner to all other countries in the region and we will continue this 88 activity. And we will be very pleased that today's Members of Parliament, that is, after this debate today or individually after this session, as the Ministry, we will receive all suggestions, criticisms or written documents on Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the Stability Pact. And in the end, I'll say maybe a little EPP since two weeks ago at the Ministry of European Integration is very much alive and the VEP site of the ministry. I hope that even those who today do not want to ask questions that they can communicate in this way as one of the new opportunities within this ministry and get those answers they want to get, which are on the VEP page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5596	We heard basic information. I thank the Deputy Minister and the Ministry of European Integration. Gentlemen, I'm opening a debate. Please, who's answering for the word? Željko Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5597	Dear gentlemen, this would be a lot to discuss, but here I am only going to say in a few sentences what it would take to do this. The Stability Pact for Southeast Europe has achieved a number of positive results in two years of existence through several initiatives and regional agreements. But there is also an assessment of countries in the region that the realisation of the Stability Pact project is going very slowly and cannot reach donor money. What needs to be done. Above all, it is necessary to realise the objectives of the Stability Pact, which means comprehensive reforms that should become the objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities, because this will create the conditions of entry into European cultures. It is necessary that our officials and diplomacy better clarify and apply the relationship of the mechanism, change the relationship between the Stability Pact mechanism towards Bosnia and Herzegovina when defining the needs for the reconstruction of infrastructure and bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina into the same line with other countries in the region. That Bosnia and Herzegovina contributes to overall stability in the region that is still unstable, especially in Macedonia, because it is a assumption that donors for existing approved projects provide finally the fresh money. The Stability Pact has its future through a strategic framework and key priorities that will eventually ensure full integration into the EU and European political and economic flows, which is essentially the main political goal of countries in the region and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5598	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. Here you go. If no one gets to the MPs, Mr. Cuplov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5599	In the information we received at the beginning of the public tables, literally the text and activities supported the title. information on the Ministry's activities in coordination with the Stability Pact. For the simple reason that all the meetings and round tables that are here, the desks that were held here, and there are three thematically set, are clearly represented by all 89 employees of the Ministry. I understand perfectly, it is perfectly acceptable that such an attitude, with a small observation that this Parliament has a Commission on Refugees, political asylum and to say the human rights in which I am, not in any of this form, and it seems to me that the space of its experience and observation of its work has not been used. We didn't have to be on round tables, but it seems to me that we had to be consulted for the simple reason why we should be on... and in this segment of the work of European parliaments, because the commissions are doing most of the work exactly. And, of course, in this context of the activities you've listed here, please don't think that I'm malicious, but I can't turn my back on the impression and paraphrasing a health situation. You have too many, too many participants by the system of working groups, monitoring etc., and usually the old truth when you know something's not going to go very well then a task force is being formed. I must say that in this segment, I believe that you have followed the European system of work in this area and that you have been obliged to perform certain tasks by scheme, but I ask you nicely to try to include some of our experiences, because this commission has gone on the ground and may be able to offer very significant observations, after all, which we have presented to the Council here, unfortunately in one very important, one of our important initiatives, we have not come across understanding. I don't want this to end in a parlour, at least as far as this part is concerned, which hurts us so much that we know what's going on in that area on the ground.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5600	Thank you, Mr. Cuplov. Let's move on. Who's answering for a word? If none of the MPs responds, we can conclude that at today's session we discussed information on the activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina in... The Pact. The information was sent by the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly, which means this House is being considered. The point of the debate was to make proposals, suggestions and opinions to the foreign ministry. The information is, and you know that the information of the House is not declared by the vote, but during the debate. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda, and that's Ad. 11. Giving consent to ratify a series of documents If you agree, I wouldn't read those documents now, and then one by one, I suggest we go straight to concrete documents. So, giving consent to ratification 1. A development loan agreement - A project to facilitate trade and transport in Southeast Europe between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association I am opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. 90 I ask the messengers to declare who he is. Excuse me, Mr. Bilbi. I haven't seen you, Mr. Bilbija. This is a good thing I haven't seen you, because now you'll see that sometimes I don't see MPs from my club, not just from another club. You should never fight with the boss's clubs. Here you go, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5601	Here's the thing, I'll just say a few sentences from all these from a. to f. agreement. And I'm saying on behalf of the club that you wouldn't take the time to talk about every single one. Here's the club in the set welcoming these agreements so I won't talk about this, because most of the deal has already been implemented. So let's say the Modernization Project of Railways and the rest is already completed, so we came to a degree that we could move at a speed of at least 80 km per hour, and before these agreements could not even be 50. But I have one objection to the Council of Ministers. Since there are these agreements that have already been completed, let's say this agreement of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina... The Republic of Germany 99, 2000. I would ask that in the future, if possible, we go into continuity. What comes to us to decide that this is not how a lot of agreements are acquired, because now Malta is nothing, and if we want to change, we can't, although agreements are both quality and a part of the work is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-30-0.u5602	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? Niko. I am voting on the Development Credit Agreement - A project to facilitate trade and transport in Southeast Europe between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Who's against? Who's being held back? Of the 30 votes in attendance, 30 voted in favour. There's no need for an entity vote. Under 2. - A financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank - A project for railways in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against? Who's being held back? The result of the vote, out of 31 ambassadors, all 31 MPs voted in favour. I find that the contract has been confirmed. Let's move on. Point 3.- Loan contract - Project reconstruction of the electricity system between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm opening up a debate. Who's answering for a word? I'm finding no one. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against? Who's being held back? Of the 31 MPs, 31 voted in favour. I find that the House has given its consent to ratify this contract. We're going under 4. - A financing agreement between the European Investment Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina - A project for the reconstruction of the electricity system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against? Who's being held back? Of the 32 MPs, 32 voted in favour. I realize it's adopted. Let's move on. Under 5. - The agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation in 1999. I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against? Who's being held back? Of the 32 MPs, 32 voted in favour. I understand we've given consent to ratification. Under 6. - The agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation in 2000. I'm opening a debate. Niko one answered for the word. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against? Who's being held back? I understand 32 MPs voted, 32 voted in favour. I find that adopted, too. With this, gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda of the 17th session, or this was the extension of the 17th session that we started on November 30th and ended today. We have an obligation ahead of us, which is the 18th session, as you know, the College of the House of Representatives predicted that we continue the 18th session after 17. Please, the College is asking the club chiefs, so we have an extended college right now to agree on 92 further work today. So I'm asking the club chiefs to stay in the O.R., or if there's an O.R. available. Does he have a free O.R.? There isn't. I'm asking the club chiefs to stay in the O.R. and the home will be a session of the Extended College in a few minutes just to create conditions here in the O.R. The session was completed at 14.50 p.m.
