ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4461	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 11th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to conclude that, at the meeting next to the MPs, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, the President of the General Secretary of the Council of Europe, the representative of the Observation Mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy, representatives of other organisations in BiH. Representatives of public information were also invited. I warmly welcome and thank them for coming to the 11th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. From the session are justifiably absent MPs: Bahrija Osmanović and Branislav Lolić, drag Stanimirović and Hilmo Neimarlija. Here, MP Marko Amidžić has just entered, which means I am realizing that the House session is attended by 38 MPs and that these four MPs are justly absent. The absence from the session was justified by the deputy ministers: Rasim Kadić and Zora Marijanović. You gentlemen have received a draft agenda for today's session. In order to prepare, just before the beginning of this session, we held a session of the Extended College of the House of Representatives and carried out an analysis of the proposed agenda, and I can point out with satisfaction that it encourages the fact that we are making it easier to achieve political consensus within the Enlarged College and that we have agreed on a slightly coordinated agenda, which you received on the assembly benches. Therefore, the Enlarged College proposes the following agenda for the 11th session of the House of Representatives: 1. The adoption of prisoners from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Information from the BiH Presidency on the state of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Presidency's position on the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; 3. Proposal for a law on free zones in BiH, second reading; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing BiH refugees and displaced persons in BiH, second reading; 5. Request to consider the urgent procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure: 2 (a) Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act in BiH, (b) Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, (c) Proposal for a Law on Industrial Property in BiH, (d) The Pired Law on Copyright and Other Related Firsts in BiH, 6. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between BiH and Romania on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments (b) of the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia, (c) the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the way and use and maintenance of the Bihac common railway – Knin and the exercise of supervision by state border authorities, (e) the Treaty establishing the border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, 7. Information on the state of immigration and asylum; 8. Appointment of three members of the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on a single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act; 9. The selection of members of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Commission for Transport and Communications, instead of MPs Mr Mirza Kušljugić; and 10. MPs' questions and answers. I would just like to point out that you have noticed that point 2 has been reconstructed and that the proposal for a Law amending the Council of Ministers Act, after looking at the extended College, intervention, truth, late by Mr Ralf Džonson, Deputy High Representative, as well as Mr Majkl d., and considering the length of the parliamentary procedure in which these amendments and the need to send a whole proposal to the House of Representatives, was designed by the new Council of Ministers' Assembly of the Law amending the Council of Ministers, were all arguments that this point of the agenda should be removed from today's session, hence amendments which were submitted by Mr Šašivarević and Bogićević, had become redundant and in this context was sufficient arguments, that point 2 of the agenda was removed from today's agenda, and another point of the Republic of Croatia, which was also considered to be the link to the link between the link between the Republic and the Republic of Croatia, which the link to the link between the link between the link between the link between the link between the Republic and the link between the Republic, and the link between the link between the link between the link between the link between the Republic and the link with the Croatian, and the link with the link with the link between the link between the link between the link between the Republic with the Croatian, and the link between the link between the Republic with the link between the Republic with the Croatian, and the link with the link between the link between the link with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the link between the Croatian, and the link between the Republic with the Republic with the link with the link between the link between the link with the link with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the Republic with the Croatian. Here, it's in short lines of information and the agenda is aligned. We can move to the first item of the agenda. Catch Adem Borić, MP Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4462	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, respect for the Members of Parliament, for the sake of correctness alone, I must state that the position of the SDA's Club of Representatives was to point 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act treats today at the session and, of course, I was lonely in it, but 3 I must say, that we were prepared to adopt this law with amendments or without amendments to the Law on Amendments and Donations of the Council of Ministers Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4463	I thank Ambassador Adem Borić, MP Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4464	Dear Ministers, distinguished guests, respected colleagues, I must really comment on and give one suggestion to the Council of Ministers, or the College of this Parliament, not to do such things. We know the Alliance doesn't work, but with your work like this, you're letting everyone know that it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4465	Intervention on the agenda, MP Brk. You have no right to take it from me, I mean, you put it on, we didn't put the law on the agenda, you put the Council of Ministers. What you put it for, if you can't have a consensus in the Alliance that he should go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4468	I am obliged to say that the people know what it's not, for which it was taken off the agenda today. It was taken off the agenda because there's no consensus in the Alliance and it's not because the SDA isn't cooperative. You've accused us all the time that we're inoperable that it can't work. Why isn't it working now, gentlemen? Where is one law, the bill of law that you have proposed that was adopted on this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4469	Ambassador brkati, the election campaign hasn't started and we have time. I'm begging you. So it wasn't an intervention on the agenda. Is there anyone else who can answer for the discussion? Thank you. We still have to vote on the agenda. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4470	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that point 4 go under point 6 and crash ahead of the information on the situation in the field of immigration and asylum, as it is one whole that has continuity. Just this one intervention, and I would like to inform you that the members of the Council of Ministers are here today and each at a certain point is in charge, if there is a need to give an explanation. There's no need to speak names of who's in charge, but they're here to make an explanation if necessary. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4471	Minister Mihajlović, I think this intervention is next, that point 4 goes before point 7, means also in the context. Deputy Minister Muharem Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4472	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, I just stepped in the dilemma, did we take off the agenda an earlier version of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act, which meant nothing more than the harmonisation of the Law on the Council of Ministers with the Law on the Treasury of the Institutions of BiH and the Foreign Debt Act. So that was practically a technical question. If we also removed it from the agenda, we delay the process of harmonising the Council of Ministers' Law with these three laws because we have reached the second reading. Perhaps it was necessary to maintain this proposal to amend and supplement the Act which was in the post of suspension with the laws already passed and did not entail any other intervention to the existing law. I'd like to think about it, maybe that, though, we see, I don't have to propose first, but maybe someone should remember to take a little break and figure out what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4473	I'm sorry, Deputy Minister. We have a proposal on the agenda. With Minister Mihajlović's intervention to make point 4. become point 5, so point 5 becomes point 4 and point 6 of the current agenda becomes point 5. And in that context, it would just be a change of order. I think we could accept this intervention in terms of order of consideration and logic by uniting these two points and simply considering this law. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4474	It's true they're related points, but I don't think we should change the order. That it should go the way it's too long in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4475	We respect the Council of Ministers. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4476	Dear gentlemen, gentlemen of the Presidency, distinguished guests, fellow Members of Parliament, I don't know which way we need to waste time on irrelevant matters, and if the Rules of Procedure is quite clear that the agenda agreed on by the enlarged College is not going to the polls, that's first. Secondly, the amendments can only be proposed by MPs, which is in accordance with Article 51, and therefore it is clear who can propose. Please don't, I respect all functions and everything that's going on here, with full respect for the personality of their functions, but please don't make any such problems for Dom either. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4477	I accept the intervention. So we're not changing the order of reference to the agenda points. You have, you've got a draft agenda. It is important that we make a statement because the president of the SDA Club has disputed his vote and that is an opinion from the Expansive College. Who's for the proposed agenda? Who's in favour of the RS agenda, who's against sorry? Who's against it? - no one who's from the Federation v? Thank you. One against. I find that out of the 38 MPs present to vote 32 and by checking the entity majority, we simply adopted the proposed agenda. We can move to the beginning of reviewing the adopted agenda. Ad. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Representatives Do you have any objections, suggestions? Who's answering for a word? Thank you. Can we adopt a record like this, logs from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Representatives? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? I agree that 38 MPs have come forward for the adoption of the minutes with the 9th and 10th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Ad.2. Information from the BiH Presidency on the state of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Presidency's position on the appointment of the BiH Council of Presidents, we have asked the BiH Presidency, Mr Joza Križanović, to inform this high house of events and everything that is related to the appointment of the new Council of Ministers chairman with the constitutional and first obligations of the BiH presidency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4478	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs - MPs, I must first admit that I am surprised by this change of agenda and inclusion in the agenda, such serious agenda points, which the BiH Presidency put in a very, very, very, very difficult position now. Agenda item gals: Information from the BiH presidency on the state of the Council of Ministers and the presidency's position on the appointment of the BiH Council of Chairmans. First of all, I would like to say that at this point, I cannot give any serious information about the state of the Council of Ministers, except what I know that the Council of Ministers is functioning normally and further assessing the work of the Council of Ministers, I would really not be able to enter at this point. As for the second part, the agenda item, is the BiH presidency's position on the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I must say that this position of the BiH Presidency has always been clear that the procedure should be carried out in accordance with the Constitution, with the constitutional powers of the 6th Bureau and the existing Council of Ministers Act. In that sense, the BiH presidency had very serious access to this business and I think it was 22 or 23 last month, it joined consultations with all parliamentary parties participating in this house. The result of these consultations, which, I must say, were answered by all political parties, except HDZ and I think of the PDP, and they expressed their views in writing and the result of these consultations was that we had no concrete proposal in that first round. After that, the presidency again addressed all the parties, that by Friday, I think it was 26.6. propose candidates who could get most in this home. Unfortunately, we have not received a concrete proposal until then, because the most responsible ones were to say the parties and the biggest ones, and to say what the candidates should have given in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law, respecting the rpincip of rotation, asked for the possibility that a solution to the rotation should be sought at today's session through amendments and amendments to the Council of Ministers' legislation which should otherwise have been discussed under this agenda. Since time is running out, the BiH presidency, regardless of the results of the debate on changes and additions to the Council of Ministers' Law, has scheduled a session of the BiH Presidency, where the first item of the agenda is the appointment, or a proposal from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I, and this way, again, call on all political parties to take this problem very seriously and that by Monday, the BiH Presidency finally has one very serious and well-founded proposal for the Council of Ministers chairman, so that they do not go into further crisis and difficulties in the work of the Council of Ministers. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4479	I thank the chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Joza Križanović. You heard the information. If there are any questions and further discussions. poslanik Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4480	Dear members of the Bureau, the esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, since this item of the agenda has been amended, was intended to say that by all European standards of democracy, the resignation of the chair also meant the resignation of all members of the Council of Ministers and the election of the new chairman and election of the new Council of Ministers. For this not only formally, there are reasons, but there are essential reasons. The main reasons are that, in the information, there are drought reasons. These reasons, since I had the chance to get reports a few days ago on the audit in some of our ministries, I believe there are very serious problems that have occurred in certain ministries, from the Foreign Ministry and so on. I don't think we can allow a single minister, now he's not a minister, the next seven times the deputy is moving from the ministry to the ministry in a circle and so are we in both entities, so is the Council of Ministers. To us and to the RS and trust the report on the previous government, what with the budget was done, believe in the Federation what was done, etc. And we pass through that silence. As the house burns, the grandmother combs. So I believe that the corruption created in our republic as well as in other countries in transition, etc. She's always going with privatisation, and that's the same thing, the problem that needs to be solved. We form them as anti-corruption combat teams. However, I believe that the Corruption taj leads to the World Cup Table and surely goes to Japan and Korea, these others. Therefore, there are audits, and even then they sing in the towers, and they say, "You are a difficult audit and Bog," which means that there are serious problems, which are in the Council of Ministers, which should be addressed in the next period. Therefore, both the BiH presidency and us as MPs, we are responsible, no matter what, the elections are in a year and a half. We will not turn to these things, but it is true that it is right that we come seriously and seriously to solving these problems, and to the benefit and to improve the standards of our workers, as was previously called, citizens, gentlemen, not to say poverty, no matter what others see differently, however, I think they are serious issues, but normally that we should stick to the law of the chairman, the candidate is from the Bosniak people and should be elected candidate from the Bosniak people. There's no doubt about it. We must not allow as we have been denied, so at the same time from the Croatian people you chair the Presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the president of the Bosniak Assembly, if we are therefore in favour of the constitutionality of the people, the application of the constitution, the Dayton Agreement, indeed to take care of it, are missing some, but we are not allowed to make small mistakes, because it reflects on ordinary people and citizens. Maybe we're not there, that's how much thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4481	Ambassador Banjac. netačan quote of Boro Bjelobrk MP. I would ask that we end this discussion so that club presidents can give their opinion if they have needs, that we don't go replicas and confrontations on this matter. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4482	I will intervene only on a part of the previous discussion, which concerns the perception of the documents from the review of the three ministries that arrived at the Budget Commission, which basically includes these observations that Mr Kovačević was talking about, he just skipped to say one small but very important fact in my court. The audit refers to 2000, so not to the mandate of this Council of Ministers. I hope that Honorable counterpart Kovačević will support my idea to hold a public debate on the Commission, precisely on the findings of the review.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4483	Thank you, Ambassador Bjelobrk. Mirko Banjac. The MPs Kovačević and Bjelobrk agree. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4484	Dear gentlemen, I have listened carefully to this brief and concise address by the Presidency on this issue that we have put on the agenda today. In the context of what is happening in the Bureau's institution, namely at BiH level, I am not surprised that the chairman is surprised by putting this point on the agenda, because please, gentlemen, the facts are telling the following. Mr Božidar Matić has resigned without appeal, stressing the irrevocable target of the chairman's council of ministers. In accordance with Article 5. The BiH Constitution, which specifically states that the chairman, at the presidency's proposal, is confirmed by the House of Representatives, and subsequently appointed by ministers who are also confirmed by the House of Representatives. Dear Ministers, we wouldn't be what they are if it weren't for Mr. Matić, that's it. Since Mr Matić has resigned, there is no direct, indirect conclusion, but there is a direct conclusion that there is no Council of Ministers, it is quite clear. This is what the Article of the Constitution of point 4. It's a normal function for our presidency. In the end, I wrote that Mr. Chairman cannot give serious information, but the Council of Ministers normally works. So, in one information that has no weight, and there's no such thing as Mr. Chairman's serious weight, it works well. I think it's become a rule here that everything that's bad works out well. I think that's the rule you need to follow. Please, upon recognition of the chairman, I repeat only what is said, for the sake of knowledge and for the sake of information, in order to refer to the essence, to the essence of the problem, two circles have been held so far. The third round of talks, consultation and discussion on the subject will be on Monday. Please, gentlemen, in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act, which Mr. Chairman is well-advised, the current chairman of the Council of Ministers should be of the order of the Bosniak people. All of us here know well that there is a congregation majority. We know that well. We know that this congregation majority is called the Alliance. Now, for change, what, here's the thing. Now it's perfectly normal to see what these changes are. So, the Alliance did not find it appropriate and serious and its task to propose to the BiH presidency that people have something to discuss, not once but twice. Maybe not twice, maybe he'll show up the third time he doesn't have a suggestion. Gentlemen of the Presidency, I understand the weight and complexity of what you have faced, but I do not understand the responsibility you have before the people and this Parliament as the highest officials of this country. Your right has been without, to say, further agreeing positions, and situations to try and see through your authority, whether there is a possibility of a proposal in accordance with the Law on Council of Ministers of Candidates who can get a majority. Since these won't give it to you, I realized that simply the Alliance gentlemen won't make a suggestion or he's gone. If he is not there, a new formation of the congregation majority should be paved. Since two rounds of conversation have shown quite clearly that the time has come to tell Bog and the spear. The Alliance for, what they call change, is unable to function and does not function, and I agree with Honorable Brk MP, that even in the course of the establishment of the agenda, it has seen 9 working that the time has come to seriously reflect on this Parliament as well as on what remains. Gentlemen can't be any excuse given to the public to wait for the adoption of any law or amendments or additions, which will give a new indication and a new solution. Gentlemen, all of us here at our posts are obliged to enforce the laws while they function and until they change. As the soti states in them, there is no excuse and I think it is quite clear now that we have entered a serious congregation crisis, because this parliament, this house, too, needs to think carefully, whether there is a possibility of making a congregation majority and helping members of the Presidency to solve their problem. So they can do it and have an obligation at the end of the constitutional obligation is yours. It's not said on the Chi proposal. She's yours. You have to carry that burden, no matter how you like it, I'd like to help out from this compliment, to overcome it, but don't talk about any rotations, but about the situation where we found ourselves, and that's an unrelenting resignation. That's the consequence. That's not why I'm the Honorable Chairman, so this will be information today, so let's go home. I am so that today, if nothing else, and that we give guidance or our contribution to solve this problem. I'm not because we're smarting each other here, but to say, gentlemen, we're going to get rid of each other and hear today from the distinguished presidency gentlemen, is Monday the day that this issue is going to be settled, or Tuesday? So, if that's it, let's move on, but please make sure it's settled in accordance with the laws that work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4485	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Is anyone else answering for word? Member of the presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4486	Dear MPs, I don't know if there was anything controversial about what Mr. Križanović was talking about, but I realized that he wanted to tell you that he found out an hour before we had to file a report, so the report was oral. So we couldn't prepare and share in writing. The congregation told us an hour ago, give us a report. Here's Mr. Križanović did it. But I answered for something else. The Bureau will absolutely do their part of the job. Mr. Križanović said that by Monday we are waiting for candidates from parties who think they can secure the overhalf majority. So, we're waiting for the Alliance, Mr. Banjac, we understand each other, we don't need to speak in code, and we'll settle it on Tuesday. However, you mentioned the BiH Constitution, Article V etc. It's true, Mr. Banjac, however, in the Constitution there I didn't even read about the rotation you know. It doesn't say anything there about rotation. The Bureau appreciated that it would be good to provide the candidate in parallel and give the opportunity at this assembly the opportunity to, through the amendments, if there are interested political parties for it to try to resolve through the amendment the harmonisation of the Council of Ministers Act with the Constitution of Mr Banjac, but here the Assembly has no intention of doing so. The Bureau will do their part of the job. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4487	I thank the Bureau member, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Replica Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4488	The legislative authority in this country is Parliament, and I respect your function as a man and a person, and I ask you to know that it is impossible to work in such a way, here is one reason. Amendments to the law in that form as they were given, just for information, have passed the commission phase. At that commission stage there were no amendments and they were impossible to put into procedure now. I'm asking you, not to turn out to be here, I think it was a misunderstanding, Mr. Belkić. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4489	Thank you. Replica MP Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4490	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished ministers, guests and distinguished colleagues, I really want to draw one more time, to put ourselves in a very awkward situation in this way to work both as Parliament and as the Council of Ministers, because simply no one will openly say what is. If the Council of Ministers and if the College of this House proposes the agenda, and they take it down for the same session, it is obvious that it is unprepared material and should not be played with. It's not the opposition's fault. This is the fault of the promoters who proposed the agenda. I mean very clearly, the Alliance doesn't work, and it doesn't work because of that, which is simply an unnatural whole. I'm not surprised at all. I knew from day one this wasn't going to work. Whoever didn't know, here's to make sure it doesn't work every day, because it's simply irresponsible for people to talk about changes for the better. Just now, an MP comes out in a replica and says, "We'll come back and discuss what was in these findings." I agree. I'm not for any crime to be hidden in BiH, absolutely, but if it's a better one, let's do what we did to make it better. Let's just not push and chase witches. It's this Council of Ministers. It should, at least that's how it promised the people change for the better. What legal project have we had, how has this Council of Ministers and this Parliament been established? That he went through this parliament to guarantee the people a better one. Gentlemen, none.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4491	Out of the agenda. Politically speaking, outside information, I beg you, Ambassador brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4492	That's not true. I'm sorry, sir, that you of the Alliance are bringing your member, who is at the head of this country's presidency, into an awkward situation that in an hour, Mom is reporting here. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4493	Don't lecture us, please, Ambassador brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4494	You have no right to take my word. Excuse me, I'm talking about the report from the chairman that you gave him in an hour. He simply, I'm sorry that he accepted to do this to you in an hour and comes out orally here, and he simply submits to us a report that doesn't match the state that's here. Neither the guilty nor the debtor, Mr. Križanović, takes the chestnuts out of the fire and shows that something doesn't work here. What's not working? That's what we all see, that's what we should say openly, but I'm surprised when we know that it doesn't work that the international community keeps silent and doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4495	In full terms, the capacity of the Council of Ministers is functioning and in this context do not get too excited that there is a political crisis or something else. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4496	Dear colleagues, first and foremost to express my satisfaction for the care expressed by my colleague, Banjac and counterpart Brka, with the position of the Council of Ministers' constitution. The esteemed chairman of the presidency said it would be completed on Tuesday and I reiterate that satisfaction that we are sensitive to even the problem by Tuesday, which is very significant. I feel the need to just make a comment on these intense assessments of the Alliance's position, etc. I'm glad the Alliance keeps an eye on it. I am deeply convinced that my colleagues and colleagues in the Alliance will do everything in their power to make sure that you remain an option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4497	I thank Ambassador boriti. Ambassador Ljubić sought before, chairing the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4498	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I considered after the agreement of the College, and if I had the opinion that it should be voted in that part of the Council of Ministers Act, it means that those powers already exercised by individual ministries should be settled, that this should be separated from this political debate. I've also accepted this agenda, and I could accept this information, no matter what it's oral, and if we can't even accept the argument that it's an hour ago. I think it's an assignment to all of us, at every level of 22.6 since Mr. Matić resigned. Therefore, I would be, to say and tolerant, if that is the issue on Tuesday, if that is the issue next week, that we leave these a little stronger and a little harder 12 political debates when we talk about the Council of Ministers' chairman and the new Council of Ministers. It is clear now that we will have a new chairman and a new Council of Ministers and I would not be burdened with it until there is a report on the work of the current Council of Ministers. I certainly think that we will think carefully about a different alliance, about the alliance for BiH, which will include a much broader consensus of political parties and political forces in BiH, if BiH wants to get out of the economic and social problems it is in. For this reason, I didn't mean to answer, but I see when the replicas started, I suggest we accept, we heard the information and simply, I hope that in the next week or in the other week we will have a conversation on the confirmation of the Council of Ministers' Chairman and that we will leave our discussions on the current functioning and the new way of functioning of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4499	I would like to thank President Ljubić. Ambassador Miro Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4500	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, as a phrase on information that has been collected in two three sentences, which is probably expected by far greater and far more quality information, given the situation, which governs within the Alliance, or within the Council of Ministers. Of course, the impeachment of the resignation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Matić, is an indicator of exactly that part of the disagreement in the Alliance, and today, there has been an expression of the inability to re-candidate the new representative of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So, the Alliance that had the majority and which is considered to have a majority, was obviously unable to agree within itself, as well as in the case of the election law and tried to make a pretty handsome maneuver, one of the boundaries and additions when it comes to the Council of Ministers Act, the abolition of that rotation, which I don't think will work out, must give up on it in advance, because that would be something that would lead in one wrong direction. It has been said here a lot, when it comes to the procedure, in Article 5. The Constitution, under point 4th subparagraph, says what the Council of Ministers does and, of course, those who think that the resignation of Mr Matić's Chairman-in-Office does not mean the full resignation of the entire Council of Ministers, I think they are mistaken, will see it at the vote. It's going to be completely different. So his resignation, the entire Council of Ministers, must also be re-elected. Now it's a matter of whether the Alliance has the majority in a new power establishment. The fact that it is not, since it has not proposed to the Presidency so far, and the Presidency has no candidates to run for it to this assembly, but it is also sad that we cannot, and that the Presidency has not had enough information about what is happening within the Alliance itself, which makes up the majority, for now in this House, that there is no information about the problems and that it has not tried to overcome these problems, in order to resolve the situation in the Council of Ministers, and it has reached through the MPs to the amendments, which is, I think, one of our failures, when we have made the adoption of the electoral law, and because of the short time it has been omitted to make amendments, in accordance with Article 94(3), and that is one of the failures that we have made at that time. Of course, the procedure was wrong and that these amendments were not discussed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that they were neither rejected nor accepted and that they could not be debated at all today. The best was the solution, when it comes to this part of the amendment and the addition of the 13 Council of Ministers Act, to be removed from the agenda and to see what problems are within the Alliance, which is required to set up the Council of Ministers, i.e. put into office the entire Council of Ministers, headed by the chairman. It is one of the indicators that showed that the Alliance when it was formed that it was not formed by the will of political parties, but by the will of one of the parties, who said it should do so in another way to try to lead BiH, but I don't think BiH will be able to lead in this direction, given that there are no basic things that concern itself and do not respect the basic principles of those who win and those who won in the elections within BiH, but have been cut off from small parties created by the Alliance, which, of course, proposed by the Council of Ministers and it fell on one of the first serious exams, which was the electoral law. Now I try not to get to the rotation, I think it introduces BiH into an even bigger problem that is unnecessary and, of course, if it is willing to bear such responsibility, let it do so. But I'm surprised that the Presidency, I repeat, has not done more in that part, and we as a representative club suggest that, unless it is on Monday, as Mr Križanović said, to take other steps and find the other parliamentary majority, to establish the functions of the state and that the state could function normally and not to continue to hide behind something and things are not working, two political parties who will dominate this and all the citizens of BiH and the people are suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4501	poslanik Grabivac, thank you for your exposure. Niko one's answering for a word anymore. Minister Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4502	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed colleagues, we, of course, had no intention of speaking to the Council of Ministers about this item of the agenda, because we felt, given the fact that the Presidency gave information, and you know on what terms, it was asked of the Bureau today to give information. She was given, the way you heard her. I have no intention of commenting on what was said here, but I am obliged to say just a few words about what was said here. This is where it started to talk about the parliamentary majority of the old or some new one. Here we heard about it, the words about the Council of Ministers not working, here we heard a lot of reviews about the work of the Council of Ministers and the parliamentary majority who chose this Council of Ministers. I have to admit, in the end, we heard an encouraging statement from Mr. Grabovac, who said the Alliance is bound to do it, and I think it's something that you've turned our attention to again, and we know that we're obliged to do it, and we don't argue that we're going to do it. However, if someone considers that the Council of Ministers should resign completely, because the chairman as one of the guests of his relationship to the last session of Parliament and everything that has happened in the preparation of Parliament's session has given, if someone considers that the Council of Ministers should fully resign, it must find a constitutional or legal foothold. Let me remind you, it is true that in all European countries, when the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that is, in some countries it is called the Prime Minister to resign, that then the completely complete government, or the Council of Ministers, resigns. However, it is in situation 14 when doing what we call a collocular government. Since this council of ministers is not a government, it is not under the Constitution of BiH, it is the Council of Ministers, Council of Ministers, Kam... depending on what language is used. So, we and if we would like to act in accordance with the oatmeals that apply to the regulated European countries, we can do something like that, because we are obviously not a regulated European country, and also our Constitution treats us in a completely different way and the Council of Ministers is obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Law of the Council of Ministers. Also, I want to say that here, as spoken, there is another possibility that anyone who has a parliamentary majority, someone who has a parliamentary majority, and someone who does not have it can try to form it at the downfall of the Council of Ministers. It is possible to initiate the Council of Ministers' change procedure under the Law and Rules of Procedure. It is the legitimate right of every MP, and let alone whoever considers to have a parliamentary majority and in the extreme case, we, at the same time, when we set out in the project of forming this Council of Ministers, have signed very clearly with 22 signatures that we believe we have a parliamentary majority. Now I'm asking you gentlemen, who claim to have another parliamentary majority. As far as I know, there was no choice. The SDA and HDZ and the SDS do not have a majority in this parliament. Question battle one, did you form at least a minority? Question number two, do you have anyone that approached you and that you think you have a parliamentary majority? There's no problem. Here, there's a business way to do it. So you have a procedure and every other way to do it. Let me remind you that the parliamentary procedure currently contains 18 laws mostly on second reading. There are several laws on the agenda that passed this Council of Ministers today. Some laws have been passed. There's no need to pick them up. You can see in the records you adopted, what has been adopted so far in the context of this Council of Ministers' call. There are currently 18 laws in the procedure, which are a direct product of the work of this Council of Ministers. So I would suggest that, if you want, you run what the law, the Constitution and the procedure allows, but don't deceive the public. We have a parliamentary majority. You'll see it the first time you see it. The presidency will appoint a prime minister. The prime minister will be appointed by the Council of Ministers, it will be attested in this parliament. There's no reason for the people to worry about it, and those who are minorities, if they want to worry, we can't ban them, but please once again, I repeat, if the parliamentary majority is formed, you can let us know about it. Also, I want to say one more thing. We'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4503	Mr. Lagumdžija, we have a warning and an MP and we simply use the Rules of Procedure. This was information in and this context is not a report on the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4504	Certainly not, Mr. Avdić, on the other hand, I want to say very clearly here a few sentences to what is now offered as a second thesis in this debate, and that is the story of rotation as something which is the essence of the whole problem. Please, the story of rotation, it's not just about rotation. We simply tried in this time to find some opportunities to make the Council of Ministers more efficient. Please, neither this majority of parliamentary nor this council of the miniatures has 15 intentions to propose any mechanisms to this House, which will mean any attack on the equality of all three peoples and on the constitutional foundations by which we are elected. That's what I'm obliged to say, because of what's been said here about rotation and this council of ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4505	I thank Minister Lagumdžija. We've already got two, so on behalf of the club, MP Banajc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4506	The SDS is mentioned here, so I said a little bit of an hour, my Bog, that it takes some time to solve some claims, that everything here is normal which is abnormal, because in which country a minister in a government or body similar to a government or which should be similar to a government can behave and hold such lectures as Mr. Minister Lagumdžija. In the end, it is a matter of BiH's functioning. It's a matter of Parliament's functioning, it's a dignity of Members of Parliament. I protest giving the minister such opportunities to speak in this way. He has his place, he has his role, he has his tasks, but Mr. Minister, your function is beneath the function of MPs, and he will never be equal to the function of MPs, you have to understand. If it's hard for you, I'm sorry it's hard for you. But second, Mr. Minister said that Mr. Božidar Matić resigned for moral reasons. It is known that Mr. Matić and his ministry were not doing anything under the law, neither were others, but so, but Mr. Matić's ministry did nothing. If he resigned for moral reasons, what do you gentlemen do for moral reasons remain.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4507	Let's leave it alone. I'm begging you. poslanik Malkić and bring him in. We've been through the debate. I beg you, we haven't opened a debate on the Council of Ministers, it's just a debate on information and in that context, and it's simple. Deputy Minister, if you have anything new. Simply, the Council of Ministers said theirs. If we're going to discuss the Council of Ministers' report, then we're going to put the thematic point on the agenda of the House of Representatives. So there's no relics, in terms of dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4508	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will first, have, let me say two discussions. First, I will present my replica, or I will correct Mr Lagumdžija's false allegations. This is not a pre-election assembly or the minister has no right to hold... MPs. The minister, or wherever the president is, has the right to teach his members a lesson. I would like to comment on the information that we have on the agenda, that is the Information of the BiH Presidency on the state of the Council of Ministers in BiH, the presidency's position on the appointment of the BiH Council of Presidents. I'm glad we're discussing, talking here today about no problem. I don't see the reason why this agenda is sitting today. So, there's a problem. If there is already a problem, I would like to say that I absolutely cannot agree with the indifference in the direction of 16 submission of Mr Matić's resignation. I stand at the point that from his point of view, the moral act that he has resigned, allegedly, because of not adopting the electoral law. I stand on the point that it was an immoral act that he offered such an electoral law, which, unfortunately, had to be accepted by his party colleagues. I do not know at what stage of procedure we do not have, given that the chairman of the Croatian People's Presidency took over the Presidency's presidency whether we were to immediately appoint, or give consent to the appointment of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm glad that this situation will be resolved on Tuesday and we'll accept that time-longing. However, I cannot just accept the deadlines for the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, or we agreed that the Council of Ministers is not working adequately without telling anyone here today the words of reproof, or we are not seeking someone's responsibility in this matter. It seems to me that at least we should, or should, or members of the Presidency or representatives of the Alliance, or those who make up the parliamentary majority, apologize to the MPs, or to this people, and say we are guilty because we have not yet appointed the chairman of the Council of Ministers, rather than throwing responsibility at others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4509	I thank Ambassador Malkić. I ask you, we will have the opportunity to discuss the causes of the resignation and we will have the text of resignation and the simple appointment of the Prime Minister's Chair will open all elements of the constitutional obligation of the Presidency in terms of appointment, in terms of the appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman and the structure, i.e. the composition of the Council of Ministers. I'm asking you to finish this debate. Violeta Kamberović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4510	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests, I have to take this, I have to answer Mr. Banjac, because he has called some to give us a lecture. Mr. Banjac, I've been listening to you for six months and now you listen to me. You've been giving us a lecture for six months on the Rules of Procedure about the Constitution and all that. I have to admit, you've worked very hard to get over it. However, I would recommend this opportunity for you to begin to interpret each other's rules of procedure from that people and that poor girl waiting in the field to get rid of something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4511	Ambassador Violeta Kamberović thank you. We give our word to Deputy Minister Muharem Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4512	Dear Presidency, I didn't know how much I had no right so far. I think we at the Council of Ministers cleared up with what anybody's doing. We know our tasks and rights and obligations and responsibilities. We can respect this gathering, but it would be our turn to be respected as people in that sense. I almost had tears in my eyes a moment ago. For what? Because those who have broken down this country are now calling for a new Alliance for BiH. For what, gentlemen? I won't speak for long, President only.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4513	You won't speak at all. If that's what you want to say. You can't talk and please speak nicely.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4514	I'll just have one sentence. Because there's no room to make alliances outside Bosnia and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4515	It has been shown that the Deputy Minister should not have received a word in this context once again that the Executive Authority should do its job, and Parliament will do its job and are clearly delimited in jurisdiction and no one should give a lecture to this Parliament, regardless of which party it came from. So, I beg you one more time, that's right, thank you. I also personally asked the Presidency to, by respecting the constitutional obligation as soon as possible, appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers and we will have the opportunity to appoint, ways and reasons that we can. I beg you, Minister Lagumdžija. I'm finishing up the information and the point. The Council of Ministers has no agenda. He has the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4516	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4517	Here you go. I'm asking you a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4518	Article 53 and 54 speaks very clearly of the rights of members of the Council of Ministers in the work of this Parliament and I would suggest that you take a look at it. The members of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to participate in the work of the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with all that the members of the Council of Ministers have every right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and do not treat the members of the Council of Ministers here as being excess in this Parliament and Article 116 to Article 120. The Rules of Procedure very clearly defines the way in which you can seek no trust from the Council of Ministers and when, in accordance with Article 116 to 120 of the vote, not the trust of the Council of Ministers, our rights and obligations under Article 53 and 54 stop, and all that you have said about morality I am obliged to say to Mr Malkić for the dignity of Professor Matić, who is here, look at the stenogram, you do not have the right to call people such as Professor Matić as people who did not have the moral right to order and declare them immoral. Look at the stenogram, you'll see what you've said. I think you'll be sorry when you read what you said. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4519	The replica Malkić again. More replicas of Grabovac and we're done and we're taking a break by 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4520	I do not know if I will be able to repeat it, but I will once again confirm that it is an immoral act of all those who have imposed such a original law upon these MPs. Or those who wouldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4521	It's your business to think. Thank you. Once again, Ambassador Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4522	I'll replicate two things. First of all, the sooner I spoke, the more I warned, the more I will warn you that there is no parliamentary oversight here. It is also a problem with the Council of Ministers' behaviour, which does not understand that Parliament is commanded by the Council of Ministers and there is no parliamentary oversight and it is supervised by the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers does not oversee the House of Ministers. Secondly, Article 53 and 54 that you can say what you're saying right now, that you gave a lecture when it comes to who has and who doesn't have a parliamentary majority, that's what you'll see. We've asked to get out of the crisis, and obviously there are disagreements in the existing parliamentary majority, because if there were, if there were a consensus, then it would come out of the crisis and it would be proposed to the presidency of a new prime minister or you're deluding the people, there's something. You either don't have a majority or you're deluding the people. You're lying to the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4523	poslanik Grabovac, every government has its own problems. Let's go out.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4524	Because they have received trust and have the majority to succeed and to function and I am asking all Mr. Chairman that the MPs here right now have a priority, therefore, there must be parliamentary oversight here and not control over Parliament from the executive part of the government.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4525	Thank you for your intervention, Ambassador Grabovac. I ask you once again, I thank the Presidency for the information. The Bureau is required and simple and mandatory to Parliament, that at any moment it can and should submit oral or written information. So it's not disputed in this context to preserve the dignity of this home and allow the system of government to function normally. So we intervened around the presidency. I'm begging you, we're done. It's coming to the knowledge of the Information. Thank you. I'll see you at 2:00. 19 ...on behalf of the commission of my colleague Gligorić. [[PAUZA]] There isn't. Can we, we don't have any new amendments that the College would plead on? So we can move on to the vote. Here you go, my friend.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4526	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, guests, you have received a report on the Bill on Free Zones in BiH by the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4527	This is the President of the Commission of Foreign Trade and Customs. Here you go, pal Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4528	In the meantime, to me as chairman of the chairmanship committee, he did indeed appear despite that regular procedure of Parliament that we have, the need to change, and, if I say, when we talk about amendments and that procedure that went beyond when the Commission was sitting, we had such a position. I think it would be good, if you could maybe appreciate this fact that when we talk about this law, and if we may have missed a certain procedure, we can postpone it for the next session, because there are a lot of remarks that have come up in the meantime as problematic ones that should be dealt with. This is what I want to say, because, as chairman, I have been able to say that someone will vote against or not, it would not be a good practice to come into the situation that, if the law did not pass which we very much need, and in that case we would have such a situation that we could not practically put it on the agenda for six months, and perhaps Parliament should introduce ourselves, so to speak one shade, if it is assessed as it is, in particular, followed by our Council of Ministers, if such a statement appears that it could suggest it and that perhaps in a new circle we come to this law to avoid saying one awkward thing to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4529	So, the president's proposal
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4530	To consider this emerging situation and withdraw for the next session. I think it would be very useful if we didn't go further...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4531	Will anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers? Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4532	Dear gentlemen, I would like to state the position of the SDS, the MPs' club, of course, for which we will not be able to vote for such a law. I think that could be one of the reasons for 20 peddlers to pull the law out of the procedure. The legal basis set out in the wording of the text constitutes a foothold for the regulation of the dispatch of the external trade regime and the customs procedure of free zones but the intrusion and normification of the provisions of the company, administrative, land of real and investment law which is offered in the entity's competences without the consent of the entity to Article 3(5). The BiH Constitution makes it unconstitutional. For what? Free zone projects are not in principle an export import character but a developmental investment, which is the material basis in the entity's intelligence. Another reason. The regulation of free zone matter can include the regulation of the matter at the level of BiH and the entity level, but the legal provisions and frameworks of the regulations must respect the competences shared by BiH and entities and cantons. Next, the regulation of the law at BH level should therefore only be a framework law, which would prescribe guidelines for entity laws on free zones. Lastly, the text offered is not drawn up according to the above mentioned, i.e. In addition to the framework provisions, it also contains the provisions of the executive character, which dissipate entities from constitutional authority, I mean Article 10. These are gentlemen of the reasons why, I think, this law should be upgraded in accordance with the principles that I have stated, if it can't be done now, and it can't be done, we won't be able to vote for this text for the reasons I've stated.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4533	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4534	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to nor have the authority to enter the controversy or debate over this law and its basis for adoption. I think that, in any case, the Council of Ministers should respect certain procedures that have been brought here, respect certain arguments that have been made here, and I am asking only that this legislative project be not considered today in the second reading, but that its consideration be postponed to obtain all of the opinions and all the necessary consent of the relevant factors, to ultimately come before this parliament for adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4535	I would like to thank Deputy Minister Mr. Kragula on behalf of the Council of Ministers under point 3. The Law on Free Zones in BiH will preferably be discussed at the next session, with normal, active participation, that is, the preparation of materials and the installation of these suggestions and frameworks in the Free Zones Act in BiH. So we're going to point 4. Ad.4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH This is also a second reading. There were no amendments to the first reading. We have the Commission's position on human rights. President Osman Brka, MP here. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4536	Dear President, dear fellow ministers, the Commission discussed the proposal for this law at its 31 May session and proposed three amendments. I mean, you've got all these materials in the previous sessions and I think, since this is what the Commission has unanimously accepted as amendments to be a proposal to propose to the Council of Ministers' bill. I can only repeat that the amendment is first in Article 2. The bill of law is deleted. The second amendment in line 5 second, a new sentence is added. For the first six months the returnees shall be provided with an average monthly basket fee per household member and amendment number 3.Article 12. The bill is deleted. The Commission unanimously adopted the view that the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH, together with the amendments adopted, should be addressed to the House of Representatives for Discussion and adoption. That is the Commission's position. I believe that this will make the motion, and then we'll probably have something to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4537	I thank the President of the Commission. You've heard these three amendments. You got them on June 1st o.g. but they were again divided into congregation benches, since some MPs had not received, expressed their desire to do so in front of them. Is there a need to discuss these three amendments? Is anyone answering for a word? Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4538	Dear gentlemen, on behalf of the SDS Parliament Club, I would like to announce to you the following. We did not invest amendments in the current draft law, for the reason that this would mean a complete processing of what it is and we can only accept what it means to transfer the powers in amendments and additions to the laws of the Ministry of Civil Psols and communications to the Ministry of Refugees, Immigration and Asylum. That's all. Secondly, there is no excuse to be done, because the law was passed in a regular parliamentary procedure, with the consent of all parties, if there is an incursion into other matter, we will not be able to vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4539	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Minister Zubak asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4540	All amendments are down to 2-3 sentences. We thank the Commission, and we think that it was really well done in Parliament and these suggestions which have been made and through the amendments incorporated, we are accepting, especially when it comes to Amendment 1 and, when it comes to Amendment 3. We are afraid that this Amendment 2 would not, I just want to say that we do not have the first funds in the Budget of BiH to ensure that the exiles are suggested here and if we would like to provide them with it. I'm afraid we'll establish a commitment, and the state won't be able to meet it. If this obligation applies to entity authorities, we don't mind but we should regulate it that way. 22 So, basically we agree with the amendments, there is no big difference between us, our representatives, so Amendment 1 yes, Amendment 3 is involved, but for us, this Amendment 2 has been asked very much. It's not about rights, it's about possibilities.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4541	I thank Minister Zubak. President of the Commission, Member of the Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4542	It was clear to the members of the Commission, the esteemed President, that this problem was present, which was referred to by Minister Zubak. We knew about this problem and I, who proposed this amendment and the Commission accepted it, we were thinking about it, but we also felt that once this right of people must be regulated legally. We felt that the Council of Ministers had to make an effort to put forth effort and find those funds, which should probably not be small. We know there's a lot of resources, but we also believe the Council of Ministers is responsible and knows what it means for the returnee. That is why I am now on behalf of the SDA MPs' club asking for a break to meet the Commission. I invite them up to 218 to see us respond to what Minister Zubak said here. I think the Commission should take a unique position, and I know my position, because I have proposed that amendment. Please rest for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4543	30 minutes break. A discussion on amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH, the break-up was sought by Commission President Osman Brka. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4544	Dear President, dear colleagues, we held a session of the Commission and took the next position at the Commission session. We remain with these three amendments and remain with that Amendment 2 Mr. Zubak had an objection. As the Commission, we voted 6-2 to stay on the amendment. So, the Commission stays with him and I, as a proponent, normally, remain with that amendment. However, at the suggestion of the Proposer, or Assistant Minister, that there has been an acceptance, possibly acceptance of Amendments 1 and 3 to certain non-compliances of the texts, we, as the Commission today, have accepted the proposal that due to the discrepancies caused by Amendment 1 to Article 3. The bill changes, so it reads: Article 6 is amended and reads: Compared to the authority of BiH's BiH refugee authorities, it ceases to be a BiH refugee. Under a (a) voluntary return to early residence and (b) if, on the basis of comprehensive and objective information relevant for the choice of place of residence, it decided to permanently settle in another residence in BiH, or to permanently settle outside BiH. 23 BiH refugees, who returned to BiH, who did not re-occur in their earlier residence or failed to elect another residence in BiH, can achieve the status of a displaced person in a manner regulated by entity laws. The Commission remains with amendments 2 and 3 adopted at the 5th session of 31 May 2001. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum suggests that the House adopt a law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH with the amendments set out in the Commission's 31 May report in this report. I would just once again very briefly comment on this amendment 2, which is likely, because of what Mr. Zubak said, to seek out large material resources only very briefly. Indeed, we were aware in the last session and today that it was true and that it would require certain material resources. We're also aware that Annex VII hasn't been going at the pace it's supposed to take for years. In this way we wanted to point out to the Council of Ministers and those who wanted to return, that additional efforts should be made, which I am sure, I as an individual here, would support the international community and that it would try to help solve this problem. I would therefore ask the House of Representatives, not because I am the promoter of this amendment, but because it is indeed one of the greatest needs in BiH today, that we directly help to return all the refugees to our own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4545	I thank the President of the Commission. It is obvious that at the level of the House of Representatives, we do not have a full degree of consent to trust this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Refugees and displaced persons. It would be an extreme political shame if the law did not get the green light of this house and that it would not be in parliamentary procedure again in six months. We must be aware of the consequences stemming from the vote and the inability to adopt such a law which is a dominantly fundamental law for the realization of Annex VII and the return of all to its own and the restoration of BiH's multi-national structure, without which objectively BiH will not be able to function in the future. So it's not a controversial fundamental political goal, but objectively, whether or not Minister Zubak.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4546	I am sorry that there is no understanding of this law and if everyone is talking about the need to regulate the problem of this population. Since that's the case, there's nothing left to demand that we, as in previous cases, from this home, get this off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4547	I do not consider it necessary to remove anything if the amendments submitted by the applicant could not possibly be accepted, but in this direction, it seems to me that 24 ministers, before speaking in his last date, said, if the entities accept it, or that they are bound by them, and perhaps in this direction, that the obligation from this attitude to compensate the returnees, that the law regulates that it is an obligation for entities to return and that the entity is bound by six months in the direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4548	If I have understood correctly, there is no within Parliament, if I have understood Mr. Chairman, there is no possibility within Parliament to be given support to this law on amendments and amendments to the law, if that is the case, then we are withdrawing it. As far as these amendments are concerned, Mr Nenadić was on the committee, as assistant minister and we are totally on the side of those who propose the amendment, we are merely pointing to the fact that we, in the BiH state budget, will not have the means to implement these fees for long. You know, among other things, here's this ministry, I'll remind you, this ministry, when the budget was adopted, the funds were cut. I reacted at the time, so some people got it wrong. Our budget can grow within the BiH state as part of the rise in national income in BiH. That's what we accepted from the IMF, and that's how it's gonna be in the next period. Despite our wishes, our options are not to realize it, or there's another possibility that that part of the funds that we've intended to return to replace for these needs, but then there's no going back. We've put in a certain frame and beyond that we can't go any further. If this parliament finds the means and opportunity to resolve this issue, we are to help refugees and displaced persons who return to their homes to have this compensation. We can't be against it. But I realized, Mr. Chairman, that even I don't want to talk about amendments at all, because from this point on, it comes out, that within a home, so I realized there isn't enough majority to pass the law, as in the case of previous laws. If that's the case, then we better pull the law, not waste six months again. I don't know if that's the condition. If that is not the case, if it is the amendments, we accept what the House of Representatives votes. As far as we're concerned, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4549	We are obliged to declare the amendments of the Commission which remained with its amendments, to amend the text of Amendment 1 and it is clear. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4550	Let me just say, we're glad that we've agreed on Amendment 1. Amendment 2 is not a problem regarding the legal solution. He's a bit of a problem about the possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4551	Financial security. I thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4552	I'm sorry I have to go out a lot, I just feel like I need to go out. I think I've been very clear before. It's clear to me that there are no 25 funds in the budget for this, at least as much as necessary. The minister shouldn't have said it, I know it, and you all know it, but I also know that there is a way, in another way, to provide those funds. It is such an urgent problem, that I will not believe in one thing, I will not believe that both the international community and dozens and dozens of humanitarian organisations, that I do not say hundreds that are working around BiH will not and should not be involved in solving this problem together with the Council of Ministers and with all those forces that want progress in this area in BiH towards all BiH citizens and I do not accept, simply the fact that if we are given one task to say in advance that we cannot do it. I claim that there is power in this country and in the Council of Ministers, even claim that it has the strength to choose to do this. I'm not so that if we come across the wall right away we won't even try to do it. I argue, with the goodwill of all progressive forces, who want BiH well that this can be resolved. I'm not saying it's going to be easy to solve, but it's going to be decisive, and that's why I'd ask that amendment and that law to come forward today, not to withdraw it from the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4553	We continue the debate. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4554	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, it is very interesting that we are in favour and that because of, firstly, the amendments concerning refugees we have not adopted, allegedly, we have not adopted the electoral law, and today when we have a proposal, or amendment to amendments and additions to the Law on displaced persons, we cannot accept that part that we are saying that we are providing these people with six months, one average to tell the basket that they can survive. I don't know what we want. Are we going to bring these refugees back in one way and say that we will, and that's why we've done it in another we're going to be in a situation where we can't secure it. Can we, uh, secure that? My proposal is for the Council of Ministers to go through the World Bank programme and through social assistance projects, which have been in projects of sauces 1 and 2 and very interesting where these funds are being channeled, if not for categories concerning refugees and these funds are being received by BiH and its entity governments. I think it would be good, and if we know that this is difficult to secure, but even when the budget was, if it was based on a return, and it was based, at least the Alliance was so exposed, that it was based on everyone returning to their own, then it had to assume and see what it took to achieve a sustainable return, and the sustainable return was not this, but it was a little tempered one, so in six months we would provide people, at least that they had bread and that they could survive them and their family. If we can't do that, then I think in truth it's a shame to lead this people at all, because in truth we lie to him and tell him one thing and in reality it happens another. When it comes to most people, you probably have a majority. Because both the Government and the Council of Ministers were created on the basis of the majority. My suggestion is not to remove this law, that it goes to the vote. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4555	Thank you for your noble efforts to come up with a law and help those most difficult in BiH in terms of return to their homes and their hearths. Ambassador Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4556	The Honored Chairman of this session discussed all these issues and given the unconfirmed consent between the Commission and the Proposer and these new moments that have come and the clarifications that all MPs have not received, the position of the club is that the promoter withdraws the law, that we leave it for a certain time to carry out consultations where it is necessary to reach agreement with the Commission and to go with such a text, to go with the new amendment and supplement of the Law on Refugee and Displaced Persons.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4557	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. With this, I think we have carried out the credentials, however, it is a stubborn fact, the Commission insists that the House declares itself and should be respected and we are going to make a statement on the Commission's amendments. Amendment 1 which has been partially corrected and agreed. And this is Article 6 of the amendment, and it says: in relation to the authority of BiH authorities, refugees from BiH cease to be a refugee from BiH (a) a voluntary return to early residence b) if, on a voluntary basis, on the basis of comprehensive and objective information relevant to the choice of place of residence, it decides to stay permanently in another residence in BiH or to settle permanently outside BiH. A BiH refugee who has returned to BiH has not settled again in an earlier residence or has failed to elect a second residence in BiH, can achieve the status of a displaced person, in a manner regulated by entity laws. I'm asking you to make a statement about the amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? We don't mind. Who's restrained? Thank you. An entity vote is necessary and necessary. Who is from the RS area for this amendment. Who's in? - 3 Who is from the field of Federation for this amendment? - Thank you. The situation is clear, of the 36 MPs present, voted 26 – there is a relative majority. According to the entity vote, from the Federation for 23 – from the RS area were for 3. In that context, he did not get an entity majority. We can give an hour's break so the College can try to get along. I propose that an advanced three days of the College take the obligation from the Rules of Procedure in terms of trying to bring these amendments into line by the College. So Amendment 1 didn't get it. So Amendment One is going to be agreed by the College. Thank you. 27 Amendment 2. Amendment 2 is familiar. So in Article 5, at the end of the second position, a new sentence is added: For the first six months the returnees shall be provided with an average monthly basket per household member. We heard the arguments and the Minister's arguments and the Commission's arguments. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? - No one's against it. Who's restrained? Entire vote. Who's from the Federation area for? Who's from the RS area for? - 1.2.3 The identical situation and this amendment I declare to be in agreement within the next three days by the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. He did not win the entity majority, he has a relative majority and is required according to the Rules of Procedure to bring him into line. Amendment 3. Proposal for a law, Article 12. The bill is deleted. Who is to adopt this amendment 3? Who's in? Who is against this amendment 3? No one is against who is abstention? Who is from the RS area for this amendment? - again 3 votes Who is from the Federation area for this amendment 3? An identical situation. In the first round, 26 voted in favour, received a majority in the first round of voting. In the second round of entity voting, he did not get the required majority and also experience the same fate as the previous two, going to agree on the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We are obliged to vote in full on the law that is before us. The amendments go to alignment. Who is it that the law on amendments to the BiH Law on Refugees and displaced persons in BiH is given trust and who is in favour, for the law that is in the text that is in front of us. The amendments go to alignment. We can vote for the law, which we can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4558	Gentlemen, distinguished guests, don't let us get into unnecessary trouble again. It cannot be voted on by law if they are still in the procedure of the parliamentary amendment and they are in the process. We need to get to the alignment, come back, vote again, then vote the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4559	Can we relax like that, Mr. Banjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4560	No, not relax, but it's the only way. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4561	No, no, there's another way.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4562	All right, you do whatever you want. I warn Parliament and draw attention to the fact that it is against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4563	Rules of Procedure, this situation is not fully defined. So, after the adoption or refusal of this law, in the event of adoption, after the adoption of the amendment, if they agree, amendments can become an integral part of the legislation that we have passed. If he does not agree, he will vote at the next session of Parliament's House of Representatives. There's a whole other criterion. We can do it this way. It's no problem. So, we're not wrong, next time we'll make a statement in case the College doesn't have a unique view of it and it's simple about the law. We accept this. Nothing changes. We are going to agree to the amendments and to the next session, after the amendments or the refusal are agreed, we are going to vote both on amendments and on the law. Thank you. Ad.5. Request for review under emergency procedure Article 104. Rules of Procedure (a) Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act in BiH (b) Proposal for amendments to the Customs Tariff Act (c) Proposal for a Law on Industrial Property in BiH and d) Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Other Related Rights in BiH Does it have the needs of the Commission yes, that is 104. We can go to the very act of voting. Here you go. Ambassador Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4564	Given that the European Parliaments do not know the shortened procedure, and also taking into account the previous all of our debate in recent months, our club is in the position that an emergency procedure, i.e. Article 104, is a quick solution, and often happens to us and we go according to Article 104, then we do not adopt any of the laws at all. Since, for example, there are three readings in the Danish Parliament about one law, I think it would be better if we went into the ordinary procedure. However, in this case, since it is for the bill's proposal to amend and supplement the BiH Customs Tariff Act in order not to brake some of the world's processes, I suggest that, i.e., the position of the club is that in this case we can make an exception and that it would be necessary to go according to Article 104 b. and for the other points of this proposal, points 5 we suggest that it go into regular procedure, in order to use all its parliamentary opportunities and to end certain laws. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4565	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. I ask you to respect the Council of Ministers, which referred these laws to the procedure of Article 104 per emergency procedure. We've respected all phases, except they've been shortened and in that context, I don't think it would be directed unless there are other arguments from the point of view of delay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4566	Let's vote on every law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4567	Normally, that's what we're gonna do. a) Proposal for a consumer protection law in BiH. Who's in? Yes, yes, by emergency procedure. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Need an entity vote who's from the RS area for? - 3 Who's from the Federation area for? This law also has a relative majority. He didn't get the entity majority and he's experiencing the same fate as the amendments. The entity majority did not receive, so no alignment is required, given that it is Article 104 and goes into regular procedure. b) Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act. Who's in? Do you mind? This is just an emergency procedure, we're not voting on the law yet. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Okay. Of the 36 votes for 35 and thus we also avoided an entity vote. I find that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH has been adopted to comply with Article 104 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Emergency procedure. c) Proposal for a law on industrial ownership in BiH. Also, by emergency procedure of Article 104. Who's in? Who's against it? The abstentions? - 1,2,3 who's from the RS area for? - 3 From the Federation area for? Thank you. I find that the law did not receive the necessary entity majority, i.e. the proposal to be considered by the urgent procedure of members of 104. What does the proposal for a law on industrial property in BiH go to regular procedure, regular procedure, and d) the proposal for a law on copyright and other related rights in BiH Who is to be considered under the urgent procedure of Article 104? Who's against it? 30 Is anyone restrained? - 2 We have an entity vote who's from the RS area for? - 3 usually three votes. Who's from the Federation area for? We find that the proposal for a law on copyright and other related rights in BiH in the first round of voting was 24 – against 10 – abstention 2. However, he did not get an entity majority. From the Federation's area, 21 voted – from the RS area – for 3 and in this context, the law goes into regular procedure. He didn't get the green light to apply Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. We can move to point 6. Ad.6. Giving consent to ratification of international agreements from (a) to (d) a) the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on improving and reciprocal investment protection We have a report from the Commission on external relations, whether there is a need, and the Commission on finance and budget. There's no need to be. Can we just move on to a statement? Does anyone have a discussion? We don't. Please (a) Who is it that the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on improvement and reciprocal protection of investments is adopted and ratified? Thank you. It's obvious. Who's against coincidence? Thank you. Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. We were unanimous and ratified the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on improving and reciprocally protecting investment. 36 MPs voted. Thank you. b) Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. Almost identical agreement. We also have a report from the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Finance and Budget Committee. Who's to ratify this agreement? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone abstentioned? Thank you. Nedžad Šešivarević, intervention. 31 Let me just say that we also adopted an agreement to improve and protect investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia. Voted 36 MPs, present 36.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4568	Dear ladies and gentlemen. This is not an intervention on anything but just another warning, as I see here that there are representatives of the Council of Ministers. Again, on behalf of the Financial and Budget Commission, I say, as soon as the Commission is called on again, and the legislators of the law are present, the Commission will ask that this be removed from the agenda in the future. I've been through this four or five times. Gentlemen, please, we'll call in time. No one's ever been of a novice before. We're not asking him to be a minister. It doesn't matter. Just to instruct someone to represent the promoter. You've only been here once five minutes before parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4569	I thank the President of the Commission. We have established rules on the functioning of committees and House of Representatives. So the position applies unless there is an assistant minister, deputy minister, minister to defend the document, i.e. an agreement or law not to simply and to consider it on the agenda that is on that day at the committee meeting. c) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on the way of use and maintenance of the Bihać-Knin railway line and the exercise of supervision by state border authorities also, the Agreement which has reached the assessment of two commissions, i.e. the Foreign Affairs Commission. Is there? Thank you. There isn't. Who's to ratify this agreement? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? 37 MPs voted in favour and thus ratified the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on how to use and maintain the Bihać-Knin railway line and to exercise control by state border authorities. d) The Treaty on the determination of border crossings between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia We also have an opinion from the Commission. Thank you. Who is to ratify this agreement, or contract? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you, suzdržan. So we can establish 37 MPs voted to ratify the Treaty on the determination of border crossings between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. 32 Ad.7. Information on the situation in the area of immigration and asylum whether Mr. Secretary wants to say a few words. Minister Zubak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4570	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before you, there is first one information like this in which we, based on the data we have, provide an image in the field of immigration and asylum. In the letter delivered to you, you saw that this information was adopted by the Council of Ministers, and that it was delivered not only to this home, but also to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency discussed this information, adopted and supported a set of measures and activities planned to bring the situation into order in this area. I wouldn't repeat the data contained in this information, but I'd just like to say that we've been working on it in the 4th month of this year and the evaluations that were given here are based on that data. The data that we received from the State Border Service, in fact, no, are such that the grades that are presented here do not need to be changed at all. So we continue with this tendency to extend Bosnia and Herzegovina from those who enter here in a legal or illegal way to actually use the territory across which they go to other countries, i.e., in particular, Western Europe. But I wouldn't talk about it, I'd just like to say that I'm actually telling you, that of these measures that we're about to take, we've already realized one part of it. In fact, we have established contacts with the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia and we have started discussions on the redefined of the Agreement on...(readmission) which we have concluded with them and we have started talks with a number of international organisations that are here and are in a position to make this phenomenon of human trafficking, transit of immigrants, etc. It regulates. So the talks with them are under way and we have offered them one, a few, not one, projects of which one has a very high chance of being financially supported, it is a project of building, that is, the reconstruction of existing facilities for the reception center, that is, for the asylum reception centre. As far as we can solve that, I think we'll be able to fight this phenomenon more effectively. In fact, we now have a fundamental problem with the fact that the immigrants returning from the Republic of Croatia have no place to stay, nor do we have the money provided for in the budget to deport them, or to return them to their countries of origin. As a rule, we put these people in existing refugee centres. You see that here are the number of refugee centres that have been designated and these refugee centres are without any security control. In fact, we didn't do anything to make it impossible for them to continue their journey to the West. Namely, they would spend one night or two nights at the refugee center, and then they would re-connect with those people who transport them to the West and continue on the same path. We have persons who have been caught several times in the Republic of Croatia and returned, precisely because within Bosnia and Herzegovina we did not have an appropriate reception centre in which to keep these people until their identity is established and until the funds for their transportation, i.e. deportation to the countries of origin are secured. As I said, then, we are on our way to solving this problem, and otherwise all this set of measures that we have proposed, which are in the exclusive jurisdiction of this ministry, we 33 have started, which are within the legal framework, we have started to solve and we hope that we will soon complete this legal regulation. We are therefore on our way to reach an agreement, i.e. to find donors to build a reception centre and we are on our way to conclude talks with the Republic of Croatia in order to redefine this agreement. In addition, we gave the initiative through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to conclude with them a readmission agreement. This is very important and we participated in the session, in Zagreb it was, the treš Table of the Stability Pact on which it was once again confirmed that this is a regional problem, not the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia or Yugoslavia or these countries individually. We ourselves cannot solve this problem unless the problem is resolved at the level of this region. Among other things, it assumes that we also coordinate our visa regimes. And in this sense, the Council of Ministers has already launched or the Foreign Ministry has launched initiatives and we, I hope, will be able to bring the visa regimes in line at the level of the region, and I hope that our visa regime will be harmonised in a good way with the European Union visa regime. If we realize this, we expect and hope, in fact, that during this year, we would manage to deal with this problem to a good extent, that is to say, to cut off the flows of illegal immigration across Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. Certainly, it is important to mention here although the State Border Service is not in the direct jurisdiction of this ministry that donors are provided to be trained further, improves the material technical and other skills of the State Border Service. We therefore expect that the situation will improve, and that we will be more efficient as a country, that is, society in the context of this phenomenon. We're also on our way to resolve the problem of temporary housing of female persons who are brought here from some countries and who serve and who are in these nightclubs and who are involved in prostitution here. We have also offered concrete programmes, and we are very likely to have provided donors, so hopefully we will be able to solve this problem. So what I've told you is just a supplement to the Information, and we're asking you, as far as you have suggestions and suggestions to which we should take action to give us in this sense not only support for what we've predicted here, but to give us appropriate recommendations in this regard so that we as the Ministry together with other ministries, because this is not exclusively our jurisdiction, we can finally not say it, but to a good extent solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4571	Thank you to Mr. Minister for exhibiting and consistent information that is before us today in the sense that it really is of high value. President of the Immigrant and Asylum Commission, MP Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4572	The Honorable President, distinguished colleagues, the Commission on Human Rights of Immigration, Refugees and Asylum today discussed the Information on the State of Immigration and Asylum. The Human Rights Commission for Immigration, Refugees and Asylum at its 6th session held on 6 July 2001 discussed the Council of Ministers for Bosnia and Herzegovina's information on the situation in the field of immigration and asylum. The Commission found that it was good to find such information in front of the House, which looked at and summed up issues in the areas of immigration and asylum. The Commission proposes to the House to accept information with the proposal for measures set out in the same. Now I'm taking the opportunity to say two things after Mr. Zubak's presentation. In fact, I look forward to having this country's Border Service there better every day, and I hope that things will go well in this respect and that we will face less of this problem in the coming years. I sincerely hope so. But something got in my way, so this is what I'm trying to say. There's really a lot of problems here. And now presented Mr. Zubak one problem which is really a problem – the problem of prostitution here. Donation will be found to address the problem. No donations can be found for the solution of the refugee basket. It's unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4573	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. Who's next to the word? Ambassador Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4574	From this quality information, we have seen that borders in Bosnia and Herzegovina are stronger and better secured in the West than in the East. And what's going on. Where hollows enter a huge number of asylum seekers, and where they are quality-secured, they should now be returned to the same asylum seekers. Not proportionally in ensuring the state border across Bosnia and Herzegovina leads to these current results. In addition to these proposed measures, I would suggest that our ministry, resolutely asking for help, concrete from countries with vast experience, knowledge, equipment and technology in this domain of the state structure, which are, above all, England within the European Union and the United States. It is certain that they can specifically help us on the subject of providing quality and experience personnel who would educate our people on the field in Bosnia and Herzegovina with quality equipment and normally with faster strengthening of the State Border Service and personnel and material and professionally. I also think it would be a good idea for this ministry to come out with a quality programme in the framework of a labour table Stability Pact that deals with this issue and provide additional resources to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders, airports, etc. where the entrances to Bosnia and Herzegovina usually take place. I also think it is necessary for those who have already made it through hollow borders and airports to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide human quality accommodation to extradit or return to where they came from or solve their problems in some other way. The Unco-San canton is burdened with its own problem. I suggest the Resorb Ministry see what it can do to improve the situation on this matter. As far as trafficking in women is concerned, I believe that other ministries at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, cantonal and entity MUPs should be imported in order to put an end to the honour as soon as possible. That's it, thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4575	I thank Ambassador Šarganović. poslanik Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4576	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Club, I would like to say that the information is really well done by the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers, that, on the basis of the information we have, we can draw many useful conclusions, that, of course, many useful measures have been proposed. The club also wants to join in terms of suggestion so that this information is more complete so that this important issue can be resolved by our joint participation. Data on illegal immigration of foreign citizens seeking to cross Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory into Western European countries suggest that Bosnia and Herzegovina has become a transit centre for well-organised international crime dealing with human trafficking. You're familiar with the types of illegal immigration that's been processed here, and it's about four guys. Legal entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina and a legal transition to Western European countries, illegal crackdown in Bosnia and Herzegovina and an illegal transition to Western European countries. Legal or illegal entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina and illegal stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the fourth asylum claim as an option for illegal in Western European countries. The reasons why we see the current situation are the existing visa regime, the leniency of state borders, the lack of complete legislative regulation, the lack of reception centres for foreigners, the lack of financial resources, insufficient material technical equipment and human resources and the coordination of organs dealing with the problem of foreigners. Therefore, the Club proposes measures – the adoption of a new visa regime; strengthening the State Border Service: making and adopting sublegal acts defined by the Law on Immigration and Asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is unacceptable not to have sublegal acts in relation to the adoption of the Act, which was adopted in 1999, although we have a working group formed and of 4 of those regulations is only one practically agreed; the conclusion of an agreement on the work of the Mission with the SR Yugoslavia; the establishment of a centre for the reception of foreigners; the provision of financial resources for the disposal of deportations, we think of this human part that should be highlighted, given that usually people are victims or, in other way, are present and of course, technical-kadrovic strengthening as a greater coordination of all organs dealing with foreign problems. We would also like to point out here at the Declaration of the Zagreb Summit of Countries of the Stabilisation and Association Process, which committed themselves to concluding regional co-operation agreements on asylum and immigration in 2002, as Mr Krešimir Zubak also spoke about. Here, this is the club's contribution to better resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4577	I thank Ambassador Gligorijević for his helpful suggestions, indeed for the addition of this material. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Banjac. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4578	Dear gentlemen, we have information in front of us that we don't pay much attention to. Namely, although this information is welcome to say yes, but it's a newer date and we don't know what's been going on in this area before. So we informed the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons of Immigration and Asylum to see what's been going on since 1991 and here. Of course, it's hard to get these data, but the fact is that no one is aware of the data that Sarajevo Airport is particularly hollow and that no one is paying attention to that fact, and we keep pointing out that the State Border Service has not yet taken up space and that's why problems are being created. Only illustrations work on page 6 of this text mentions 14,316 citizens of Iran who entered in 2000 via Sarajevo Airport. At the same border crossing, 14,117 citizens of Turkey entered, with only 4,420 coming out and in 2001 the trend continued. No one mentions that problem at Sarajevo Airport. How come people, everything is fenced, all beautifully arranged. How is it possible that such things happen in that very place? I think it is also important that the exit is also listed here... (new tape).The border crossing with the Republic of Croatia. The 6,770 people came out, the 4,100 came back, where the others are, what are they doing? These are data that, I do not dispute the quality of information, but its sufficient information slows down. So I'm slowing down insufficient information. Gentlemen, there's only a problem here with certain states. And that's the problem to answer the question – why? I'd like the minister to say that? Does he have any knowledge about this? And around the illegal remains in Bosnia and Herzegovina are mentioned here from 1.8.2000 to 31.3.2000. So over a period of about 7 months, 283 solutions. When you connect the periods before ten thousand and this 283, then really these others evaporated. I don't know how else to see that solution. I have the feeling that we have no control over the movement of foreigners within Bosnia and Herzegovina which is highly questionable. I don't mean here anyone in particular, I mean whoever came in. I don't look at his skin color, his name, his citizenship, his religious or his national background, and I look at him as a stranger. Keep going. Is this Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it is intended to establish a visa regime with the most critical approaches with countries where there are the most critical entrances to Bosnia and Herzegovina? The most critical move and exit from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or politics is so welcome, we'll see what we can do. Those are the questions they're asking. I only collected this from the data that's here. And they are unfortunately, only for 2000 and 2001. I'm sorry to say, because probably those numbers, I don't dispute what's written, but they're just numbers that talk about the current state, and we can only assume what happened before. How to handle it. I think this information is welcome, but I think it needs to be done more and it doesn't need to be bypassed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4579	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4580	Anyway, I'd like to say that the information is welcome and that we should have it. However, we do not need to bypass the fact that we do not have all the necessary information in this information in view of the causes of the current situation in the matter of refugee immigration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is generally known that we at the 37th part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state border have no control over all the entrances, i.e. border crossings, and probably from good intentions, the ministry has offered a table of entry at the Sarajevo Airport where we have the opportunity to control. You've witnessed some major broadcasts on television whether day 3 or 2 BiH TVs, where not only people, persons, but the whole truck of horses, oxes and others enter the border crossing, and that crossing across the river, crossing through the woods, there's no possibility of showing up as information in this information, or data. Therefore, I would like, above all, that we have information from the State Border Service as much as it has done to stop illegal immigration, that is, entering Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then, we also witness that many Chinese both in Sarajevo and Banja Luka and in Bijeljina sell those goods on the streets, and I don't know what they don't sell. We have no record of them. Why don't we, just because they don't come through the airport? It's a good thing we have an airport, so we can see it there. Therefore, I share this concern of Mr. Banjac, but we have here data that do not reflect a picture of immigration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As regards measures, I agree that state border control is necessary, however, this slightly larger point 3. The creation and adoption of sublegal acts defined by the Law on Immigrants, Refugees and Asylum. We've passed immigration, refugee and asylum laws for almost two years now, and I'm surprised the current ministry hasn't already offered, or already worked on such a regulation. There's no need in that direction for us to say it's necessary again. That must have been by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4581	I thank Ambassador Malkić. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4582	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, in favour of this debate, welcoming the findings on the agenda, I would like to draw attention to just one moment. Not to slow down the role of the State Border Service and especially the tasks ahead of it, I would like to draw attention to the appearance of the involvement of persons expelled from the Ministry of the Interior, and they have found an engagement in the State Border Service. This is a phenomenon, in front of me is an act by the Minister of Interior of the Unsko-Sanski Canton, which shows that under a) 7 persons, as soon as they found out that a certificate check was carried out diplomas left the Ministry of Interior and moved to the State Border Service, b) He interrupted the six-man working relationship by means of his measures, they found the same engagement in the State Border Service, the reason for the same falsification of diplomas, etc.; This is one example of who expects these people to do what is said here to live in great error. Falsifying a diploma is a criminal offense, and you know where they should be. I'm an example, and I believe there's even more to it, and I'm asking for it to be taken care of. Thank you very much. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4583	I thank Ambassador Đedović. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4584	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, I would really accept all this that the previous speakers have been saying about this information. It's very good. But I'd like another little suggestion, I think it's very important. This Europe is extremely interested in solving this problem, it is very interested, because it is to her, why - because it is a big problem to her. With this in mind, I would like to make a suggestion, I think that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the RES, will already know that, I believe, that knowledge will be adequately prepared for a donor conference in terms of funding regional projects that will be held in the framework of the South East European Pact in Bucharest. I think that's why Mr. Minister knows it's going to be done, it's a donor conference, so the funds are targeted for regional projects Mr. Minister has highlighted. So that's where we have to be very interested in this gathering, and that's where we have to go with very good, smart ideas to get a certain, practical realization, support for everything that we're talking about. Why am I saying that? If our country remains in this kind of trouble, no one will take our goods or cooperate in any way. Is that a big problem? Malkić suggested the problem not only of immigration and human trafficking. There's food. There is one big problem that Europe is more concerned with than anything. And I think, just a suggestion for this preparation is an adequate preparation for this donor conference where we can get significant resources according to these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4585	I thank Ambassador Buturović. Is anyone else answering for word? There isn't. I apologize, Minister Zubak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4586	I thank you for supporting the information and I immediately said in the introduction, limiting the range of this information. It was done on the basis of information the Ministry had. The Ministry shall not have any relevant information to fully reflect the situation in this area and in this regard it shall be less. I agree with those grades. Thank you for these suggestions you made. It will do us good for our future work. I've missed, through the questions I actually see, that maybe some things explain or clarify, so here these questions are opening up. Sublegal acts. The creation of these sublegislative acts is under way, but in these working groups formed, not only our ministry or the State Border Service are participated, but representatives of the international community participating. And they've been asking us quite a limited factor lately because of their busyness with other issues, we've made a decision within the Ministry not to wait for them to make proposals, or define these sublegal acts, whether they agree with it or not. That's the condition. We haven't stopped working on it, but we're about to finish this job with or without 39 of them. Sarajevo Airport. Sarajevo Airport is the place where Bosnia and Herzegovina is legally entered. All those of you who are there see the information, 14,000 of them from Iran or Turkey, etc. they have entered Bosnia and Herzegovina legally and we cannot prevent them from entering legally. And they legally go in and out of the airport, but the further they go, we have no insight. They are free, in a legal way they came in here and we only through that data as much as legally entered and how legally it came out we conclude that most of them actually stayed here and across Bosnia and Herzegovina went to the West. Get out. We have in agreement with the Republic of Croatia defined that the only place to take immigrants from the Republic of Croatia that went there from Bosnia and Herzegovina is Izačići. It is these days that we are having talks with them, additional negotiations to complete the agreement itself and to open a few more points, probably in Metkovic, that I will not prejudge other places where we will take over these migrants that we receive from the Republic of Croatia. That's why it's only listed here as information at the Izačići border crossing. It's true and it's entirely Mr. Banjac. We don't have enough internal coordination and that's indicated as a problem. Neither does the co-operation of the respective Home Offices on this matter. We have referred you to three cantonal ministries that have no contact with the Federal or the State Border Service on this matter at all. And that's what we have to take care of in the coming period. We need to coordinate our policies in the area, coordinate the work of entity ministries and coordinate the work of cantonal ministries within the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina entities. Because we can't, if we don't have a coordinated and coordinated ministry action, we can't fight this phenomenon effectively. The Kinez are a typical example of what we indicate. We cannot resolve the problem unless we bring visa regimes in line at the level of the region. What's going on? What was happening, in fact Yugoslavia stopped the process. But the Kinez entered the Belgrade airport in a legal manner, coming to Yugoslavia, in a legal way, like these Turčin, before the Iranac in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then, from Belgrade, they crossed our border here, which is ugly, came to Bosnia and Herzegovina and moved on. That's right. That is why we need to coordinate, try to bring the visa regimes of Yugoslavia, Croatia, Macedonia, etc., so that these countries of the region do not stop one, while others are opening the process, i.e. the possibility, not the process. And we started, so this initiative started through the Stability Pact and another way to bring the visa regimes together. But there's another problem here. We didn't say that. You have rightly mentioned problems in the functioning of the State Border Service. The problem is next. With the organization of the ministries and even these joint institutions in my personal opinion, not mine, but the Ministry at all, we've made one irrationality final. Part of this issue is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, part of the problem is in the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and this State Border Service is under direct control of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. We think that in the next period of the talks we start to reorganise the existing ministries and put these related jobs within the framework of a ministry. That's why we're the only segment we can track in this area. And we, in order to get to the pedicures, must, say, ask the State Border Service, or other ministries, etc. There is therefore no co-ordinated at Bosnia and Herzegovina level. It is only part of the problem that we are not referring to as a major problem, but I would like to say that in the next measures that 40 need to be taken to be more effective in countering this phenomenon, we must also put the problem of immigration, asylum and the State Border Service under the authority of a ministry, a little bit of this kind of waste in the control or jurisdiction of several ministries. Thanks for the suggestions. We will appreciate this all that you have suggested and we hope again, at the end of the year, to give one new piece of information and hopefully, if this council of ministers remains, and I hope that what we've received from the Stability Pact will be achieved as much as possible. In fact, we're thinking through the Stability Pact, and everything goes through the Stability Pact to get donors for these needs. And for your information Bosnia and Herzegovina through the Stability Pact has received two partners to train the border service and fight this phenomenon. One of them is the UK and on Monday comes the delegation, an expert team from the UK to help our people in these services, or these ministries to fight this phenomenon more professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4587	I thank Minister Zubak. This concludes the debate on Information in the field of immigration and asylum. In my opinion, this is more than information and a whole complex of proposals for measures. Also part of the additional measures was proposed by the club, which was presented by MP Tihomir Gligorić. Do we have the political will to strengthen this proposal of measures and this information by voting for this information? Although it's not common. Can we? Thank you. So we can also conclude this, that it's not common to vote on information. We support this information, this proposal measures and the normal proposal for measures proposed by the Club, MP Gligorić today at the session, and I want a September of the Ministry on, simply on the way to resolving the situation in this area to enable Bosnia and Herzegovina, simply establishing visa regimes with a number of states that are now inaccessible to us. Thank you. Ad.8. The appointment of 3 members of the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Foreign Debt Act We have discussed this issue at the Enlarged College and we propose that MPs Nedžad Šašivarević, MP Mijatović and MP Zdenko Vukić be members of our commission who would work to agree on the unity of the text in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Thank you. Who's for please? We're obviously unique today. Does anyone mind by accident? Restraint? Together with 34 MPs, we have appointed our three members of the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act. 41 Ad.9. The election of members of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Commission for Transport and Communications, instead of MP Mirza Kuršugić, president of the SDP Assembly Club. So we have Omer Filipović for the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, and in the Commission for Transport and Communications, our new MP, Damir Mašić. Can we give ours for? Thank you. Who's for these two board members? Do you mind? Restraint? Also, in agreement with 35 votes, we have verified two new members of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs and the Commission on Transport and Communications. Ad.10. We have an initiative and one question from the Bjelobrka MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4588	I will only publicly announce that I have launched an initiative to freeze the existing decision of the Administrative Commission, because I have no idea that it is covered by budgets at all. I know what makes us all tang. However, I have launched an initiative to freeze the existing decision of the Administrative Commission of this home to increase the remuneration of MPs until the budget is implemented, because at least I want to see the budget that there is satisfaction in the existing budget. And secondly, we have already received a new guidance procedure for the costs of the joint bodies, which are much more stringent than so far. I want that checked out, too. What I answered and the real reason, I've already put it in the process. There are two months that I started, I asked for information about Banja Luka and Trebinj, and a month ago I asked for an answer from our presidency what they did. I don't have an answer for either one. Gentlemen, you are already in conflict with the Rules of Procedure, and as you go, you will be in conflict and with me. I advise you to get this over with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4589	Ambassador Bjelobrk should have little understanding for a high degree of... (unalignment) between individual levels of government and the possibility of this information. So there must be understanding when and immediately I must state the position of the Administrative Commission is quite clear. There is no increase in receiving MPs on any basis and we remain at last year's level. So we have absolutely restricted and restricted the receipts of MPs. Here you go. poslanik Malkić. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4590	Dear gentlemen, I launched an initiative in 21.5, and he directed the College of Representatives to the House of the Peoples, and that he also directed it to the College of the House of the Peoples. The initiative 42 was signed by 25 MPs. I didn't have any, I forgot to offer, probably the representatives of the HDZ sitting there would sign the initiative. Namely, it is a Plenary session of both homes, which is scheduled to take place on 10 July 2001 at 11 in these chambers for the occasion of the memorial ceremony, which would have the character of the ceremony on the occasion of July 11th, the day of memories of the victims and genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the meantime, I agreed with the chairman of the House, i.e. that if there was no possibility of such a plenary session to organise a meeting of the House of Representatives at, whose hosts would be the current head of the Srebrenica municipality and the chairman of the Srebrenica municipality, Hafizović Šefket and Radivojević Desnica, the same term where we would gather here, by inviting me further MPs from entity parliaments and here honoring the victims of genocide and war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want from you, probably the chairman, given these signatures, 25 MPs will send letters to the MPs, as well as other MPs from these entity parliaments and the House of Peoples, so here on July 10th, so Tuesday at 11 o'clock together, we honor the victims of genocide and call for one dignity at the memorial ceremony, which will be on July 11th in Potocari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4591	Thank Malkić for his initiative and for this information to seek the opportunity to search for a dignified marking of the victims of Srebrenica. Which means, by consulting both the Rules of Procedure and by obliging these 25 members of Parliament to the House of Representatives, we have found this solution that is simply possible to get out of the given situation and I will be free to meet the moral and any other indifference of the Members to accept participation and to attend this memorial that will be held this date. Ambassador Đedović
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4592	I have one question from the chairman and the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Where was all the delegation of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina visited: a) the period of office of 1998-2000 b) the term of office of 2000-2002 until today? What was the name of the delegation, who was determined, and what criteria? ( c) What are the concrete results, and how much is the cost of each visit individually? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4593	I thank Ambassador Đedović. poslanik Spasojević. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4594	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I have one objection regarding the appointment of the session on Friday. I think it's irrational and it's not good and I think we as MPs should work like all other people Monday, Tuesday, and so on. That's one thing and the other, I'm asking the chairman and the Kolegiju if we're going to have a summer break to have some schedules, so we can count on time, because they're going summer vacations, etc. so we can know when the sessions will be held. If you can answer us right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4595	Is there anyone else? Professor Mediha Filipović
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4596	The Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues, the parliamentary issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4597	I apologize, Ambassador Begović. It's a later consultation. Now.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4598	It's a parliamentary question. Is Bosnia and Herzegovina a signator of the Law on Extradition, or an international contract, and if not my parliamentary question is when will this contract be signed? It should not be explained to anyone why it is important, but only among all the important things ahead of this, I will point out that this is a prerequisite for even discussing the visa regime of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards other countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4599	I thank Ambassador Filipović. Is anyone else answering for word? I thank you, and I ask you, here is a suggestion by July 25th that we work and that we have another session given the appointment of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and that on 25th of July MPs can use the annual holiday until 20 August if possible to have intensive activities in the electoral law after 20 August. Ambassador Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4600	Dear President, I would really like to join your favor on caring for MPs and their annual vacation, however, I would ask that we make sure that the electoral law did not bring an end to this and that we made a public commitment to do so by September. In that sense, I'm asking you, not to make a bidding here today, to once again at the College, to check the good terms and obligations that we've taken to finish our jobs in a way, of course, here we are if we can go from 25th to holidays, but not for a living head until August 20th. Thank you. I have an even better version. I agree. Let's adopt this whole thing, so let's all take a vacation for two months. But let's finish our jobs first. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-06-0.u4601	Please, the suggestion is constructive and the College will consider this hologram and the time dynamics of the obligations that stand before the House of Representatives. Thank you. We are finishing the 11th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. Session completed at 1645 hours.
