ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3601	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the sixth session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting, today the members of the Council of Ministers are present, headed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers Dr. Matić, representatives of the international community, the embassies that work and work in BiH, in this sense I welcome you all. I want a happy and successful meeting of the 6th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree that 35 MPs – 22 from the Federation of BiH and 13 from RS attend the session. The absence was announced by gentlemen: Mirko Banjac, Ivo Lozančić, Marko Amidžić and Mariofil Ljubić. Since we have written letters, or presentations to the House of Representatives, I will be free to do so in short lines, since it is the presidencies of the Parliamentary House of BiH to Mr Ljubić that I read to you in short lines. I would like to inform you that I am not in a position to attend today's session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, for the following reasons. Appreciateing the importance of the issue of completing the BiH presidency, the fact that this is one of the major political issues, which are intruding into the constitutional position of the equality of the constituent peoples in BiH, I believe that this issue should be treated more seriously at the meetings of the Colleges and parliamentary clubs, seeking to reach a full consensus, then go to the House session. With respect, the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mariofil Ljubić. Also, the newly elected HDZ MP, Mr Amidžić, also sends us an apology, informs us that due to previously accepted commitments, and due to the lack of views of the HDZ BiH club, on the issues foreseen for the 6th session of the House that you called for Tuesday 27 March 2001, I am not able to attend either. Please accept this as an excuse for this absence. With respect, MP Marko Amidžić. 2 This was necessary for reasons of full transparency and the public's work of this representative's home, and in this sense it is good to get acquainted with all relevant information that comes not only to the college but to present the House of Representatives as well. The HDZ MPs, in light of yesterday's letter, given the memo they delivered to us a month ago, when they simply for reasons of their unacceptable views of the Interim Election Commission, concluded that they were being detained in the executive and legislative bodies of BiH authorities, the abstinence was not withdrawn and that, according to that HDZ policy, did not attend the meetings of the Representative's House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I personally feel sorry for the College and simply once again we call on HDZ representatives to return to the institutions of the system to the legislative and executive authorities and through the legal institutions of this BiH state objectively articulate their political views and their struggle with the aspect of those positions that they presented in general well-known public. Also, gentlemen, you have received a proposal from only one item of the agenda in the invitation to this session, which is to fill the vacant seat of the BiH presidency. Due to the known circumstances we have defined yesterday, we have practically proposed amendments to the agenda for today, which is above all the following points are proposed to be classified as an integral part of the agenda for the 6th session of the Representative's House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is: - Proposal for a Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001; - Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution and the International Legal Obligations for 2001; - Report on the Implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, and - Selection of Parliamentary Delegations. In this regard, for today's session, we propose the following agenda: 1. Fulfillment of the vacant seat of the BiH presidency (a) from the Bosniak people's order (b) of the Croatian people 2. Proposal for a Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH for 2001; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the International Legal Obligations of BiH for 2001; 4. Report on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH; and 5. Selection of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in a) organised on European security and co-operation (b) Central European initiative (c) to the Interparliamentary Union (d) to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 3 This is a proposal for today's agenda. Yesterday we gave an argument for this constitution and the definition of proposals for today's agenda, and I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda of 6th. Sessions of the House of Representatives. Does anyone have a desire to speak, suggestions, suggestions, corrections? So there isn't. We can go to a statement on the proposed agenda. Who's to adopt a agenda like this? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't either. We can say that with 35 votes for the proposed agenda. Fulfillment of the vacant seat of the BiH presidency (a) from the Bosniak people and (b) from the Croatian people's ranks. 1. Proposal for a Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH for 2001; 2. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institution; 3. Report on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH; and 4. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in a) the Organisation on European Security and Cooperation (b) the Central European Initiative (c) to the Interparliamentary Union (d) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe This is a adopted agenda and we can move on to the realization of the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Fulfillment of the vacant seat of the BiH presidency (a) from the Bosniak people's (b) order of the Croatian people I am informed that you have all received a copy of the Law, which last year, in July 2000, was declared by the High Representative. Afterwards, the law on filling the vacancy of members of the Bureau adopted the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the law fully defines the position of the House of Representatives for the situation ahead of us, which is that we have two vacated seats of members of the BiH presidency. One is the order of the Bosniak people and the other is from the order of the Croatian people. I will only quote item five of this law, which says: “To vote for both members of the presidency, only MPs from the Federation of BiH, whose territories are also elected members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. MPs vote and can cast their vote only for one candidate or Bosniak or Croatian candidate for the BiH presidency. Members of the Bureau as candidates can only be proposed by MPs, i.e. representatives of the Paredes House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The candidate, who received the largest number of votes from the Bosniak people, has been nominated and has been elected as a member of the BiH presidency and is going to agree to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and vote on it, the Bosniak Delegates Club declares. The candidate who receives the largest number of votes from the Croatian people is also a member of the BiH presidency and goes to the House of Peoples agreement on which the proposal is being declared by the Croatian Delegates Club. Only after that, the consent of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is considered members of the Bureau to be certified and elected, legally elected members of the BiH presidency." It is clear that counterpart Mirjanić warns, candidates from space, or MPs from the RS space, do not vote on these two members of the presidency, nor can they be candidates from these premises. So we think it's quite clear procedure, and in that sense, I felt it was necessary and necessary to point this out and say it. I am opening a discussion, suggestions, conclusions, views under point 1. The election of members of the BiH presidency (a) from the Bosniak people's order and (b) from the Croatian people's order. Mr. Šašivarević, Party for BiH, reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3602	poštovati guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives, the seventh power, I will speak here on behalf of the Party for BiH Parliament Club. On the basis of Article 3. A law to fill the vacant seat of BiH presidency member, the Party for BiH MPs club proposes its candidate, Mr. Beriz Belkić, to the vacant seat of members of the Bosniak people's presidency. Since I'm already out, I'll read Mr. Belkić's biography as well. Mr. Beriz (Šaban) Belkić was born in Sarajevo on 8 September 1946. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics, married, father of a child. Before the war in 1992, he worked at the state administration in the municipal administration. During the war, he served as defence secretary, served as defence secretary of Ilidža opština and served as vice president of the Ilija municipality's Executive Board. Since '96. until '98. He served as minister of labour, social policy, displaced persons and refugees in the government of Canton of Sarajevo. He was elected MP to the Canton Assembly and councilman in the municipality of Novi Sarajevo. Since December '98. by February 2001, he served as Prime Minister Canton of Sarajevo. In the November 2000 elections, he was elected MP to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. A member of the BiH Party since the establishment and president of the Sarajevo Cantonal Council. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3603	Thank you, Ambassador Šašivarević. Who's still answering for the word? Mr. Adem Borić, MP of the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3604	Gentlemen of the Presidency, Mr. Members of the State Presidency, Mr. Ministerial Council, honourable MPs, I am very pleased to run for the seat of Mr. Amor Mašović, in front of the SDA MPs' Club. Let me read the biographical data briefly. Mr. Amor Mašović was born on 29.11.1955 in Sarajevo, where he attended and graduated from primary school, first high school and Law School. He's a lawyer by profession. During the aggression on BiH, he served as member and deputy president of the State Commission for the Exchange of War Prisoners. In 1996, he was appointed president of the State Commission to search for missing persons and in 1997 to serve as chairman of the Federal Commission for Missing Persons. Member of the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH and the Legislative and Legal Commission, and the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the Assembly of '98-2000. He is a member of the Management Board of the Association for Criminal Law and Criminology. He won the Seso-April Prize of the City of Sarajevo in '98. He won the Golden Charter of Peace and Humanism of the International League of Humanity in '98. He's married, father of two children. He is currently a member of this home, is also a member of the Institute for Missing Persons in Sarajevo. Mr. Amor Mašović, doing his job over the past ten years, has gained symptoms of a number of citizens of different nationalities, hence the SDA MPs' club prices and highlights Mr. Amor Mašović's obvious and enormous advantage over the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3605	Thank you, Ambassador Borić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Bogicevic's MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3606	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 3. The law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member, the SDP BiH MPs' club, at the vacancy of 6 members of the Croatian people's BiH presidency, proposes Mr Joza Križanović. You received a copy of Mr. Križanović's biography and, as you saw, Mr. Jozo Križanović was born in the year 28.7.194 in Knights. He attended elementary school in Knights, Travnik and Zenica, and finished high school in Travnik. Faculty of Engineering and Postgraduate Studies ended in Sarajevo. In 1969 he was employed in the Kombinat Brethren in Novi Travnik. During his 20-year work at BNT, he worked on the work of engineers of technologists almost in all factories. He was head of the Technical Bureaus and since '83 he has been the director of the Association Working for Arms Production. In carrying out these tasks, continued participation in the concept, elaborate and realization of development programmes and modernisation of technologies. In 1983 and 1984, he was president of the municipality of Novi Travnik. From 1989 to 1993, he is the chairman of the Management Board of the Kombinata Brotherhood and BNT General Director in Travnik. He is now co-owner of the Consulan firm “Program” in Novi Travnik and its director. He's married with two children and a grandchild. He lives with his wife in Nova Travnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3607	I thank Ambassador Bogićević. Any other suggestions? Here you go. Can we consider ourselves a fellow Gligorić, an MP?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3608	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, honourable ministers and deputies, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, in the opening remarks we have heard clearly how to act and this is correctly done. We also know who should choose members of the BiH presidency and we understand that. By the way, someone just told me what I'm going out to say. First of all, I want to say as an MP and as a citizen of this country, I have the right to do so. I have the right to ask if the proposed candidates for the BiH presidency will be on such a responsible duty as to be put forward today in front of Parliament and BiH citizens with their programme. We have two choices, regular elections, when every candidate in every normal country comes out with their own program and offers citizens and institutions their concept, and, we have today's situation that someone can say the law doesn't know, and I want to say it as serious and responsible people, it means, if we have a situation today, where we ask the director to say he'll get out of the crisis with his company, or to simplify, if we have in the local community where someone is running for the president of the local community, he says people in this term I'll make a way for you, if something isn't done, I'll bring you water for the duration of my term. This is what I'm saying to say, through the programme of future candidates, how they will work, what ambience they create in BiH, whether this work will be based on the Constitution, the law, the rule of law, or whether it should be understood. That is why I believe that the word responsibility, responsibility in BiH from entities and at BiH level is not exactly something we can boast about and therefore responsibility for a publicly spoken word through the concept, can calm our citizens, that we have received good candidates. He needs that future candidate to run the country. At the same time, when we talk about candidates and in our practice so far, we have had a lot of such objections when we propose someone, here I will be from my people so that someone else will not get angry, when Mr. Tuševljak was proposed for the 7-presidential candidate of the Council of Ministers, then they said he was anonymous and unknown. We have a situation today that in twenty-four hours someone becomes an MP and suddenly no less than the president of the state without going out with the program and saying: "Gentleman of this country I am speaking to you and I want to work in that way and that way." Therefore, as an MP, I wanted to participate today in this matter and ask only such a question or it will likely end in a way that will be said after the election in that curtuasive sense thank you for the trust shown. I don't think that's how it's supposed to work. That it's important to work seriously and professionally, not just to sneak around in a way that someone has a voting machine and that's enough. Remember, the citizens are watching the BiH Parliament. As MPs, we are intercessors of their will and future candidates to me are the same as at the time of the election when they address the nation. Thank you for showing me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3609	I would like to thank the emissary, Glagour. Mr. Malkić, Ambassador.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3610	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, I believe that the proposings also had an obligation to propose women for members of the Presidency, since they had the opportunity to do so. Given that under Article 3. The law by which we complete, I have no right to suggest such a thing, I believe that the promoters should have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3611	I thank Ambassador Malkić for this intervention. Smiles tell us where this level of human rights and gender equality is. Here you go. Replica MP Kušljugić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3612	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just come from this pay phone that the choice that should be followed by the bottom of very important functions will be based exclusively on the majority voting machine in this House. It is clear that the Alliance for Democratic Change has a programme that is presented and that candidates who are here in front of parties that are participating in the Alliance go with a programme that is known to the public. So this is no choice for people who do not have a programme and who will thank for the confidence shown because they have a voting machine in this House. I felt it was necessary to draw attention to honourable MP Gligorić that these proposed candidates today do not only have the biographies that we have received on the table and which are respectable but also have a democratic majority in this Parliament and for the programme that is known to both our and this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3613	Thank you, Ambassador Kušljugić. poslanik Gligorić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3614	Believe me, I expected to get this answer, but what I'm saying is that the Democratic Alliance programme for Change or the programme of my Socialist Party RS is quite different from the candidate who has to say I'm in charge. There is no Democratic Alliance or Socialist Party then, then there is the Presidency, chairing the BiH presidency, because each of them will rotate tomorrow, it is for all BiH citizens, not just for the Democratic Alliance and not just for one part of the parties that are there but for every citizen and I want to be an MP and as a citizen to hear how these people will work and what ambience they create in BiH, because it is tomorrow and my BiH president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3615	I thank Ambassador Gligorić, this is what we use up these replicas. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3616	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear guests and journalists, I came out just to say that in front of the DNZ, esteeming our principle of supporting change in BiH, appreciating the second principle that we see Mr Beriz Belkić as the man with the big C give his voice to Mr Beriz Belkić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3617	I would like to thank Ambassador Đedović. Ambassador Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3618	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, and if we RS MPs do not have the right to vote, but I think we have the right to speak and to say our opinion on this matter. Here we've seen it seems to me a few absurdities. The RS MP proposes a member of the Bosniak people's presidency. The Srbin suggests, or let's say, a biography about a Croatian member of the pedsjendištvo and the most debated by MPs from the RS. What I want to say, which seems important to me, if we want stability and peace and the future of BiH, and it seems to me that we must respect democratic principles among its peoples, we must allow them to choose their own representatives, without the influence of the Durgians and without influence on the sides. We had an intervention of MPs here, and we got a letter from the HDZ MPs, and it seems to me, and that's what happened to us that in multiethnic BiH, the revote of a nation is not good. It's my duty to warn you anyway and you probably know it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3619	I thank Ambassador Jovanović. We have a few replicas. Ambassador Šapivarević 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3620	I would only tell my colleague Jovanović that I did not speak for myself, but I spoke for the club whose vice president I was. Nothing else, and we RS representatives have our president in the presidency, so I don't see any reason why we are only participating in this discussion from the RS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3621	I thank Ambassador Šašivarević. Ambassador Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3622	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's probably not common, so I'm one of the candidates, it's not usual for me to speak before I eventually get confidence, but I feel a commitment to the citizens and MPs, but above all to the citizens who in some way in a situation to follow what's going on here and I want to make it very clear to the next. If I'm in a position to be elected by the House of Representatives, first of all, I am deeply aware that I am filling a vacant place under the provisions of the law that this assembly has passed and I am fully aware of that fact, but I also assure you that first of all, I will do my swearing, so I will do my job very seriously and I view this as a job. I Radić do it primarily for the benefit of the BiH state and its citizens, I assure you. When it comes to the program, I know exactly as one of the people who participated in the creation of this programme, along with his party, with his colleagues and with a group of parties that this programme supports. I know exactly what the priorities are, which we have also identified on paper, and I will, within the limits of the powers that the Presidency has, of course, if I am elected to the presidency's ingenuities, very warmly and zealously execute as my contribution to the overall project of change, that is, the programme that has been offered to both voters and citizens and around which this democratic majority in this assembly is gathered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3623	I thank Ambassador Belkić. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3624	I want to affirm the position of the SDP Parliament Club, which primarily possible candidates in the order of all BiH citizens, here I am paraphrased by my colleague Đedović, from the order of those who have a great C front in the attribution of man, and even if someone calls it absurd, we belong to a category of people who are terribly important to recognize people with a great C, p ri not forgetting that everyone has the right to their national, cultural and every other heritage and grandfather. We find ourselves, to say, at the application of a law set up in the last five years in the political constabulary as it was, which led to this kind of distribution, even in the act of voting. I want to express my belief that normal conditions will be created in BiH and that we will ultimately allow regular, regular elections and for members of the Presidency, in a way that all citizens vote for each member of the presidency. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3625	Thank you to Ambassador Bjelobrk and Ambassador Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3626	Madam Chairman, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, I believe that today's day is very important for BiH, because we have seen that proposals for members of the Presidency have come on the basis of which BiH has been fabricated and I think it is a big deal for BiH, just what one of the MPs said is a lack of capacity, and in fact I think it is a big deal, which is the first respected MP throughout BiH and out of BiH, Mr Bogićević proposed Mr Belkić and I think it is for BiH and for all of us. Bosnia and Herzegovina must move quickly forward. How's it going? As the Alliance planned, imagined and supported the international community. Two members who propose the Alliance have benchmarks, we do not claim to have any others. According to the law that is before us and I think that we have all agreed here that we will work in accordance with the law and I appreciate that we will do much faster and more effectively in the next period of our mission towards Europe and the world, very quickly and quickly compared to the earlier period.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3627	I thank Ambassador Šarganović. Ambassador Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3628	For the sake of the public, let me just say that this is a House of Representatives, or a House of Representatives, not a House of Peoples. At the House of Representatives, representatives of political parties, who are members of the constituent, equal peoples in BiH, and in the House of Nations, rights of vital national interest are exercised. Therefore, in the House of Representatives, first of all I spoke on behalf of the Members' Club and not on my own behalf, and I could have, on my own behalf, been allowed by the Rules of Procedure to propose candidates. Here, all MPs can propose to all Members of Parliament, regardless of what people they belong to. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3629	I thank Ambassador Bogićević. Is anyone else answering for a word? Ambassador Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3630	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, MPs, I fully respect my fellow Gligorić's remarks that I am one of today's candidates who is a fresh representative and I have had the high honor of being a candidate for the BiH presidency today for the vacancy of the Croatian people. I am primarily aware of all the shortcomings in the law, i.e. the way in which a member of the Croatian people's presidency is being filled. 11 I am also aware of the overall political, economic and social crisis in the country, but I still accept this candidacy with the belief that a critical mass of political will for positive change was created in BiH after many years. First of all, I am thinking about all the necessary constitutional and economic reforms that should create preconditions for the creation of a normal state of BiH, a country that will be desirable for all its citizens and respecting all the historical, cultural and religious specialities of its people, and certainly also the Croatian people to whom I belong. I am convinced that this political will is expressed in the Alliance's change programmes, and I am convinced that with the help of, above all, the understanding of, the citizens of BiH and the necessary assistance of the international community will succeed. Of course, it's a very difficult, very complex project, but I think it's very important for BiH right now that we finally know what we want and where we're going. Here, dear fellow MPs, I was going to say that if I was elected to the BiH presidency, I could promise you and the citizens of BiH that I would seek to build such cooperation in the BiH Presidency and the BiH Presidency with the international community, with this assembly, with the Council of Ministers and all relevant bodies and organisations in BiH, of course within the framework of constitutional powers, initiate and harmonise all those activities that will be in the wake of the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3631	I thank Ambassador Križanović. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Mašović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3632	Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, it is obvious that we potential members of the future presidency are not able to go out with one whole programme today that we will be blushing if we are elected as members of the predsjendištvo, but what I want to tell you is that in one sentence, therefore, as a potential future member of the BiH Presidency, I will try to achieve what is foreseen in the programmes of all, namely, all parties and parties that are participating in the BiH Parliament, and that is particularly highlighted in the Programme of the Party that has run me for this place, therefore, the Party of Democratic Action, that is, therefore, the entire BiH, democratic BiH in the European organisation, and that, like that of the grey mass, integrated BiH and BiH, is prosperous in every sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3633	I thank Ambassador Mašović. Is anyone else answering for word? If he does not report, I would like to point out that two candidates have been proposed from the Bosniak people's order. In line with the proposal 1), MP Beriz Belkić and MP Amor Mašović and candidate from the Croatian people, Mr Jozo Križanović. These are three candidates who have emerged as a result of the discussion of point one, the relevant candidates, who meet the conditions for nomination and appointment for members of the Bureau, because they meet the basic requirements, which is above all that they are MPs of the BiH Parliamentary House. 12 I would also like to point out that one of the greatest temptations in the functioning of the House of Representatives is objectively the choice of members of the BiH presidency. The situation that was newly created was not created by desire or by the political will of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The law was passed last year on 31st of July by the People's House, and before that, OHR declared, which means a law that defines that in situations that are not simply in the continuity of the BiH presidency, which means that in the event of resignation, disease or some other, simple reasons and causes, the law also predicted this situation that is before us today. I would once again like to read just one of the views of this Article 5, which defines this position simply, this situation with two vacant seats of members of the Federation of BiH's presidency. So, if both members of the presidency are elected from the Federation of BiH at the same time, one round of voting to fill both seats will be held. Every member of the House of Representatives, elected from the Federation of BiH territory, as well as members of the Bureau whose seats have been vacant, can only give one vote. So one vote for the Bosniak candidate or one vote for the Croatian delegate and Article 6 says: “After the appointment of the House of Representatives, appointed by most delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Club of Bosniak Delegates confirms the candidate from the Bosniak people appointed by the House of Representatives and the Club of Croatian Delegates confirms the appointed member of the Croatian People's Presidency, and in this context the whole cycle ends, meaning the appointment and validation of members of the BiH Presidency. Since this is highly responsible, moral work, clearly we need to follow legal regulations and legislation which in this case provides for its members 5 and 6 defines the way of choice, we do not think that any political controversy can derail or disrupt the responsibility of this representative home and, in this context, the law is surely the way and direction of the House of Representatives from the aspect of filling two places, the vacant seats of members of the BiH presidency. So we can approach the vote. MPs from the Federation's space vote. We are going in line with the proposed candidates from the Bosniak people's ranks. We have two candidates. So I'm asking you who it is so that MP Beriz Belkić can be appointed as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Who's in? Thank you. We don't vote against and abstention, we just vote yes. Nine MPs voted for Mr Beriz Belkić's candidate, and under 2. Who is it that MP Amor Mašović is appointed to be a member of the BiH presidency of the Bosniak people? We can announce the results of the vote. Six MPs voted in favour of the candidate for member of MP Amor Mašović's presidency. In this regard, I declare MP Beriz Belkić to have received 9 votes and thus appointed as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency of the Bosniak people. We are moving on to the second proposal for MEP Joza Križanović as a candidate for the BiH presidency of the Croatian people. Who is it that Jozo Križanović is appointed to be a member of the Croatian people's BiH presidency? 13 Who's in? Six MPs from the Federation of BiH voted for candidate Joza Križanović. Mr. Jozo Križanović was the only candidate and I hereby declare that MP Jozo Križanović, with six votes for the Federation's MP from the Federation's space, has been appointed as a member of the Croatian people's BiH presidency. I also congratulate him, Beriz Belkić and Mr Joza Križanović. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Genjac, the current member of the Presidency who, in this term, has assumed a high, responsible, moral function to simply enable the continuity of the functioning of the Presidency and in this context works on the well-being of both the citizens and the people of BiH as a member of the BiH presidency. Thank you again. Some suggest a break. I'm taking a half-hour break. Moving to the realization of point 2. Ad.2. Proposal for a Budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for 2001. [[PAUZA]] You have received a report from the two committees of the Constitutional and Legal and Finance Commission and Budget. I would, however, ask the President of the Finance Commission and the Budget to explain in short lines the amendments that have been defined and which have been divided into parliamentary benches. Ambassador Belkić. Legally, two MPs participate in the work of the House of Representatives and Mr Križanović and Belkić until it is confirmed by the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3634	Thank you very much, and I think that there should be some further reasons to fully understand this procedure, or understand certain decisions that the Commission made this morning and the result are amendments that are, I hope, in good time and you've probably had a chance to see them. So, in 21.3. when it was not decided whether the draft budget of the BiH institutions with the allocation of the external debt and the Law on the implementation of the budget for 2001 would be discussed in today's session, however, in order to ensure the acceleration of the adoption of these important acts for the BiH state at all and all its institutions and to support, at that session, the Budget and the Budget Law, of course with a number of objections and understanding that the Proposer could not have done everything in a way that one serious budget should be done. However, after the decision to include in the agenda today's Budget and the Budget Law, initiatives followed, so to speak, and amendments to the Finance and Budget Commission by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the initiative of a number of institutions, i.e. the BiH Assembly institution, its expert part of the leadership, etc. 14 We have carefully considered the initiatives offered this morning and made a unanimous decision, I must say, respecting the argument of all the members of the Commission that the intention is to try to give importance to this House, or to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in general its functioning, its role in the realization of a series of tasks standing before it, etc. And that your innocence results in these amendments and they can practically be defined as follows. The budget level has not been changed, so it remains as proposed, so 304 million, but within certain positions, it is proposed, an amendment where certain movements are proposed. These total movements amount to 1,683,281 and are benefiting, in particular the Parliamentary Assembly of 1,206,644 of the Joint Affairs Service 276,637 and in favour of political parties, i.e. Members' clubs of 200,000. The balance was achieved in a way that there was a reduction in the positions of the BiH presidency compared to the proposed 291,652. In the BiH Council of Ministers, something more concrete in the offices and services of minus 52,784 that there was a reduction in the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications in the amount of 376,525. In the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 379,288. In the Ministry of European Integration 84.040. At the Ministry of Treasury of BiH 249,520. In the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees 219,472 and the Statistics Agency 30,000, total reductions amounting to how many of these total increases to these three users. I hope you understand. You've got this and worked it out. Analytically worked out by individual divisions and positions, and this is the Commission's proposal to adopt the Budget of BiH in addition to these amendments that I have tried to explain to you now. Of course, because of the constant hint of rapid rebalancing, the Commission has decided to propose to the House of Representatives that, with the adoption of the Budget Proposal with these amendments, it will make the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resoring Ministry, to put at the latest the end of May in the procedure of amending and supplementing the Budget or simpler rebalancing, to launch the Budget Rebalance issue and to use this situation as an opportunity for serious, verified parameters to establish the user's relations with Budget, since it is obvious that this level of Budget will not be changed in due time and, therefore, if it would be good for extraordinary revenues to occur, to take some economic developments that increase revenues, but here to start from the assumption that the total amount of Budget will not be increased quickly, but, therefore, with the rebalance to try in a very serious way to make use of the principles of budgeting, to ensure that the information of both the budgets is used by both users. That's how much, those are the Commission's views on finance and Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3635	Thank you to Commission President Belkic. Here's Ambassador Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3636	Dear President, honourable ministers and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak in the capacity of First Vice-President of the Finance and Budget Commission, because this is the unique position of the Finance Commission and Budget that Mr Belkić expressed, but I would like to give some other indications, or to say that today, as an MP, I expected here that the chairman of the Council of Ministers will address the exhibition on the execution of the Budget last year and on the Budget proposal. In all parliaments of the world, it is one of the most significant acts, which is adopted in the current year 15, or adopted by 31.12. of the previous year for the following year. We are late for the first quarter, we also have no exposé now, even the president of the Council of Ministers did not find it appropriate to attend the session when BiH's most important act is adopted. I, as an MP, now speak, express my regret about such an act, and especially when it comes to the fact that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is also Minister for the Treasury, that means the Minister of Finance. I don't value anyone, so this is from the Commission's point of view all right. Also, the IMF is, budget at 304 million. He's a really small space. New funds will have to be found and to spread and strengthen, especially those abroad consular representations, because they should pay rent, means the CAP in the first plan and then all other institutions. I also, so we got exposure after a month and a work programme, now we don't have an exposé, I don't know what this looks like. Thank you and cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3637	Thank you, Ambassador Kovačević. poslanik Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3638	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, fellow ministers, dear guests, I will, as far as the budget proposal is concerned, speak exclusively of what we have received in the papers and accept in principle the draft budget with amendments submitted by the Finance Commission, but I have some objections that I want to make here, so you will forgive me if I take some time. First of all, on page 2, I'd like to be explained by the service of external debt. Whether it's an old debt, a new one, or it's being served together, and by what criteria it's being serviced, because here I saw that RS should single out 81,900,000, Federation 130,200,000. If the parity, or if the relationship is one to two everywhere when it's done, then this bill is not good unless it's under the Federation's responsibilities, or RS, and they're serving by their own responsibilities, but I'd like someone to explain it to me. Next, I'd like to say, that's page 4. The Council of Ministers, i.e. the Council of Ministers, to explain to me why, if there is such a council, if there are ministers who perform their functions within their ministries, and one period are only as in shape, or perform the functions of the Council of Ministers that these are such costs. At first there were a million and a thousand thirty-six, and through these amendments, something was slightly taken off, so they burned at 948,000. Only funds for the work of the Council president's cabinets are around 240,000, and I think that is a lot, and I think these funds should be invested by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, or a refugee programme to increase this by these means, and I think that this is usually a duplication, that there is no need at all for this. As for the following, I wanted to comment on the municipal cost and maintenance of the space planned for 600,000, with the report here, I wanted to attack these 600, but they added 200 more. Now I've spoken to Mr. Lagumdžija, for example, to compare with foreign affairs, and they have these communal costs and if they have about 40 embassies. I don't know what I'm asking to be explained, what this is doing so much at 16 maintenance this building, is it some other buildings are being held up or something is planning to renovate, so I'd like to ask for some clarification about it. Next, on page 6. I'd like to compare the funds for making new books, namely new passports, that's 2,800,000 and beyond, in the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, exiled refugees where we all declare ourselves to be on the agenda and we're all full of mouths and it's only fixed for 3 million. I think it's too little to worry about. Next, I noticed on page 8. The audit office is nice. The BiH institution has a total staff of 26. The salaries amount to 624,000, and immediately behind them comes the Statistics Agency, they have 14 employees and 212.000 salaries. The little relationship is that those with 26 employees need about seven hundred and five thousand and those with 230 can handle it, and so it's not half. This is what I said at the beginning of this little bit and I'm being explained about RS debt service, which is the criterion, which is what I said and I'd like it to be about someone explaining to me a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3639	Thank you, Ambassador Spasojević. Who's still answering for the word? Ambassador Muhamed Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3640	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional and Legal Committee, examined the proposed Budget in detail at its session. She went from position to position, appreciated the situation in which BiH is located, appreciated the role in the development of authorities, authorities, and said it was necessary to make certain repairs just as counterpart Beriz Belkić put it. The Commission remains in the view that the MP should not only be a cabinet man in the future to carry out his activities immediately in the sessions, he is obliged and obliged to find himself on the ground, to find himself among voters, to inform voters about the draft acts and the decisions this parliament is making, and that is the only one that is responsible between voters and MPs. Here we did not stay on the number of employees, i.e. those employed by 654, we assume that this corresponds to the spirit and time and activity of Parliament. We don't understand, in fact, why it was envisaged that the presidency, for example, and other institutions are, let's say, more privileged in the use of these funds than the Parliamentary Assembly, so the Constitutional Commission has decided to submit an amendment to the proposed Budget, as you have before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3641	I thank MP Begović, who continues to answer the word. Ambassador Kušljugić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3642	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first address the position of the SDP Club that it is necessary that we have a rebalancing of the Budget very quickly so that today we do not overly discuss the details of the Budget that has been proposed, because there is a lot of illogicality in the consultations with the Ministry of the Treasury and it has been found that this is the budget that was made in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting. My second remark concerns and I think it is procedurally important that we know why the Constitutional and Legal Commission has made amendments to the contents of the Budget, it should discuss the Budget Realisation Act, because its job description does not include doing so. They normally as MPs have the right to make all comments and suggestions, respecting the need to go to the budget rebalancing and respecting the proposals made in the amendments to the committees, I think it would be good to know today how many MPs of this Parliament have decided to professionalise their relationship, and we have received one conclusion that we will be informed on the basis of the opinions expressed, because when we look at the amount required in the rebalancing to increase the salaries for MPs which I absolutely support coming to maximum professionalisation, it comes to the conclusion that there is an eye, according to my free bill, 20 new deputies in relation to the previous mandate. If that's true, I think that number should be accepted. It would be good if, before we plead that we have a statement, in a way, the Ministry of the Treasury's opinion, because there are items that are questionable here. Perhaps we could open the discussion without need, it would be good if we had, if there was no minister, then here is the deputy minister, it would be good if we had that statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3643	I would like to thank Ambassador Kušljugić. Ambassador Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3644	Dear President, dear colleagues, very briefly to try to answer what Mr. Kušljugić asked the question, for which the Constitutional Commission reacted, simply the constitutional position of the House of Representatives in relation to the other institutions of the BiH state has enabled us to do so and I think that we have rightly done so and that we have given good amendments to the Pred’s budget. I want more here, by the way, except for this replica, one of my findings and one fact that, indeed, there are very good indications that this home could work much better than it was in the previous session. I make that finding based on the work of two committees where I am and where, in fact, all things practically and on that commission where I'm president and on the Constitutional Commission, we've brought unanimously, which means that people in committees want to work and they want to do, however, absurd things happen to us, so that I don't go out and talk again, I'm going to say it this time. In this country, at least so often, all institutions are very important but is the least important state parliament. I'll make one point. Back in BiH on 20 days, there were two conferences, two international character sessions in Sarajevo, one in Banja Luka, where human rights and freedoms were discussed. For no notice at least to happen, he didn't get this parliament, at least I don't know, I know that as president of the Human Rights Commission I didn't get that. I know that we at the Human Rights Commission have given ourselves the task of not being a cabinet team, 18, but to work in the field and to be an example of how to work in BiH. It cannot be done without funding and without funds, and that is another reason why we asked for it to be done, which I asked as a member of the Commission in constitutional law to make an amendment to the budget, and therefore I think Parliament's position would have to be like that, that every citizen of BiH knows the same thing as every citizen of the United States knows that the state is behind his problem. I read it there in one material and you all read that refugees here are cared for by 263 international hums. Organisations and 86 of our people here in BiH. They are all concerned, but behind every citizen should be the state and this parliament and this Council of Ministers and we must give it meaning, if we do not give it meaning, who will give it meaning. Thank you. Which is why Mr. Zubak and I haven't met since you were elected minister and I've been elected president of the commission and if I asked four times to meet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3645	We'll talk. I would like to thank Ambassador Burke. We'll discuss methodology and co-operation with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3646	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I don't think any ministers in any of the terms, and we think this is our high house, and there's no right to throw such a thing as an MP in this way. Nothing, just so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3647	Thank you, Ambassador Tošić. I beg you, that degree of tolerance must be. For these reasons, we have scheduled a meeting tomorrow with the Council of Ministers in terms of mutual co-operation and communication and information flow, because it is the Supreme Executive Authority and this is Parliament. So, tomorrow we'll try to define the relations and responsibilities of the council min sterling towards this home that chose them, which means they're not controversial things. The second thing was two international conferences were accepted by the House of Representatives as much as possible with discussions and speeches in this context, so the House was not consciously or unconsciously bypassed from the aspect of these two international conferences in BiH. Who's still answering for the word? poslanik Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3648	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the MPs today that we adopt the Budget Proposal and thus create conditions for us to reach March 31st in a position so that we can get support for the Budget of BiH by a fine one. Setian organizations. It was already said in the introduction that the Commission is nice. and Budget took its stand and cited the reasons why Parliament should accept our proposal. At the same time, the Treasury Ministry can answer certain questions on its own, and I believe that we have to rebalance the budget at the end of May o.g. deliver the rebalancing and fix everything we have noticed in the meantime that should be corrected in future work. Of course, that the funds are limited to 304 million is extremely insufficient for all beneficiaries of the budget. Here, in some ways, 19 want to affirm the work of the BiH House of Representatives, i.e. the BiH Parliament, with the desire for the BiH Parliament to function fully as an important institution and to create optimal conditions for its work. Of course, executive power as it is now in this Council of Ministers, their resources are extremely insufficient. When we talk about the Ministry of Civil Affairs, there are 800,000 marks missing, when we talk about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs missing 10 million marks, the State Border Service 20 million marks etc. There is no need to list how many Budget users need money. Therefore, I appreciate that at this moment and today, because of the importance of bringing the Budget, we should make a positive statement about it, and that in the Rebalan Budget we will have enough time to look at all these needs that will be removed, I say, in the rebalancing of the Budget. At the same time, it would be good here, first of all, that the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, or the College of the House of Representatives and all structures in BiH, speak with financial organisations and other representatives of the international community with the aim of, I will not say, not to be understood, but to get us better, because if we want BiH to become a legal state, we have to make laws, and many are in procedures. Each new law requires new material resources, a larger number of perpetrators, etc. In that case, if anyone wants to, and we want to, work BiH, then in order for the state to function, they must have money. Not only can something work on beautiful desires to make something work, but on material assumptions that BiH could enter the Council of Europe in a good way. So I also ask all those who are talking, first of all with the IMF and others to present this fact, not on the basis of one framework, on one static dream, without making a difference in the process of adopting new laws and some other conditions, which should be created, in order to function joint institutions in BiH. We kind of didn't explain it enough. So I ask everyone to explain enough that the situation is like this and to find understanding and, of course, the new sources of income that we will have at our disposal this year, I am deeply convinced.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3649	Thank you, Ambassador Gligorić. Is anyone else answering for a word? poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3650	Here I was on my way over, asked by the president of the club to support the proposed Budget on behalf of the club, or the U.S.A. But in my name, I have one change. I think Srebrenica deserves special care from the BiH state. We have fought for such a thing within the international community and these days they present a special action plan for Srebrenica. In the government of the Federation of BiH, we also received such a status and promises in the Government of RS, I hope that this will be the case, however, I believe that the same thing should happen within the state of BiH, and I believe that from the funds intended for the production of new books, since I listened last night or before last to TV that the new passport book would cost 30 marks. I believe that, from this part of the funds intended for passports, at least one million should be allocated to the name of the Srebrenica programme. So the refugee programme would then increase by another million, and in particular the item would be set aside for Srebrenica. For what I'm passing on something like this, and I think it's justifiable, is that Srebrenica was a protected zone, then the ratio of genocide that happened in Srebrenica to everyone known, after the silver economy, its capacity was absolutely destroyed and what the existing economic resources are being used badly, or 20 are not being exploited in any way. With these funds that would be placed in the economic capacity and return of refugees, I hope that the ribs would at least move from this dead spot in RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3651	Thank you, Ambassador Malkić. Ambassador Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3652	I asked Mr Malkić to state the position of the SDA Club MP and we are actually accepting amendments to the budget made by this Finance Commission and Budget. We have an understanding for the moment when Budget is brought and we have an understanding of the rebalancing that will obviously need to be brought and therefore the Club of MPs, I think through these amendments, which are set here, can accept amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3653	Thank you, Ambassador Borić. Ambassador Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3654	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, the SDS Club will, in addition to these amendments, support the Budget of BiH, because we know all the limiting factors for the level of this budget, but we believe that if it is planned and just gives meaning to those items that are most necessary for the functioning of the joint bodies that we will probably succeed in this. So, by the SDS Club, it's the support of a project like this, the Budget, with amendments that have passed on board.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3655	Thank you, Ambassador Tošić. Is anyone else answering for a word from the MPs? We don't have a report. The word has been given by the minister of the Treasury, the current chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3656	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for having to come out, a duty created long ago, before this session was scheduled, about a big problem I couldn't cancel, because a man from Vienna came to that meeting and had to come back this afternoon, a Japanese ambassador who is not resident in Sarajevo, I couldn't cancel a meeting with him. I'd like to say a few things to you. You had this text before the Council of Ministers was elected. So that's what the old vault suggested, we examined it and we thought it was pretty balanced and we didn't intervene in it. So we're here to defend that number of 304 we can't break. Everything else as you conclude, the vault will execute. Internal transfer from item to item is your business. That's one thing. Secondly, I see the word rebalancing is mentioned. We have received information from the IMF we cannot count the classical type, but can be talked about rebalancing if new sources are introduced. What are these new sources? First of all, in order to approach change in 21 Budgets at all, there is one condition that the State Audition Commission in full capacity is reviewing the entire business for the year 2000 of all ministries. Until that happens and those reports are here, the rebalancing can't even begin. So, the situation is much worse than expected, as considering the capacity of the revisan commission, they said they could work three ministries at the parallel at the same time, and it takes about two months, they just started working. I don't know, they announced they're starting to work. When they'll end it I don't know. The second condition is, there is a 32m IMF esophagus that is being shut down on May 15th, and it is intended to assist entity budgets and the state budget. That line not to be shut down needs to meet three conditions. One condition is to bring this budget to the state, not above 304, to bring entities, which are also, of the IMF limited both, not to be temporary measures but to adopt budgets, this is the first condition, the second condition is to harmonize tax rates among entities, this is already done and the third condition is to introduce a 10% tax on construction material. If we meet those three conditions, then, by May 15th, this line will still be available to assist entity budgets. As for the prospect of some new sources being found, proposals already exist. We got the idea that entity budgets would introduce a new tax, so-called. green tax, which exists in many countries, environmental tax on contaminants and as the first contaminants are identified cars, motor vehicles, and that tax would be paid on registration and on the occasion of the source, with regard to the number of vehicles registered being seen something, some increase of 26-28 million marks. We've heard that other ideas about additional sources are developing, and so these sources that exist cannot be burdened. We can only go up on the basis of some new ideas, that's what I wanted to tell you, and I ask you, not to go into what you've been changing relationships inside, that's what we accept as the Treasury, we're going to do it, but that Budget is eventually adopted because without it we can't meet these other conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3657	I thank the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, with the possibility that I would also be free to perhaps have the deputy minister answer a few more questions, where the chairman has not focused, that is to service BiH's external debt, which by dynamics and how we approach simply a country that can no longer be in debt. Which number of MPs wants to be professionalised, we will respond, we have identified about 28 with a tendency to increase, so probably two-thirds of the MPs will be professionalised and simply accounted for with the number of employees, taking into account the fact that we have about a dozen MPs who receive personal income in Parliament's House of Representatives, taking into account the current 26 workers and reception possibilities, there is a systematisation of the number that concerns, but we have to lead one policy restrictive, which simply goes towards receiving only the necessary workers, in terms of the need to systematise jobs, which means, in the end of the case, that we have to act rationally, first of all, the Parliamentary Assembly with both homes and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. If possible, there were questions from Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister of the Treasury, the service of the foreign Duke, an interesting issue that is also occupied by the public of BiH. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3658	I must say that I am personally pleased with the debate we are having, and I would like to continue this debate in order to come up with quality solutions. This issue, which is particularly related to the service of ino debt, is one of the issues that remains, unfortunately, open and which we have passed on as an open issue and as a problem that will be agreed upon, finally agreeing on the level of talks between the prime minister and the prime minister. The relations that have been established so far have been in line with the IMF. The differences you see are the result of practically direct investments that are not directly supported by state institutions, but are investments related to certain economic and infrastructure facilities. That's an opportunity to answer this question, and I think there's a need for a series of issues that have opened up for Budget to resolve that question. I must also say, we have accepted this budget as a starting and transitional one, for which, in order to reach the dynamics of the time we have left, we have until the deadlines set by the IMF with the obligation to establish a clear methodology and criteria by which each budgetary user will put himself in the same position to plan to spend but also be responsible for any costs that are not confirmed by Parliament. I am asking and saying that as little as possible we would have further discussions, at least as far as this package of budgets with international institutions is concerned, I suggest that we accept the intervention that is related to the transfer from the Presidency's position to the position of the Joint Service of the Assembly of 300 and a few thousand, that now the number, is not here for me, and that we keep the other positions, because these amendments are tearing down the functioning of the other budget users. I particularly stress here that the Ministry of Refugees, that I do not speak other problems that are open, that in order to strengthen the institutions of the state, must give support to the Geodetic Institute, the BiH Archives, the Bureau of Measurement, and that I do not list all of these, are all open issues and I ask that we really understand that, in the overall structure of the strengthening of the state, is not and cannot only strengthen the state based on parliamentary structure. The state is also doing all those accompanying institutions and services, so I ask that in this light you look at the need to leave what we have so far programmed for the ministries and other institutions, and to support this transfer, let's say, redistribution between the Presidency and the joint services of the BiH Parliament. Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3659	I'm asking you to bring the discussion to an end. Ambassador Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3660	With all due respect to Mr Imamović, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has directed the amendment towards the financial commission, which has accepted and formed and delivered here. We were just discussing it. The Constitutional and Legal Commission cannot accept, as far as our commission is concerned, this intervention of Mr. Imamović cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3661	I thank Ambassador Begović. poslanik Kovačević. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3662	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd really like to ask that we respect the budget adoption procedure. I mean, if we want to challenge the adoption of the Budget, which I would not recommend as Vice President of the Commission, given that he is currently out of this room, I suggest that the Commission's position which has adopted the amendment be accepted. We cannot now reject the amendment of the Constitutional and Legal Commission through discussions, nor reject the Commission's proposal, since it is authorised to propose to Parliament Budget, the Commission cannot, without, or any new meeting or delaying adoption, make a proposal and withdraw from its proposal. We said there wouldn't be any problem with those positions being fixed afterwards, etc. We may be in between within 304 as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we are within 304 thousand, and we can then agree on some... measure of position in execution if they show up. Unfortunately, we adopt the Budget without the previous, we have no execution for the previous year. We don't know which ministries will increase the volume of work, which new law, all many things are unknown, and I also would not agree that it is the government's budget, the previous one. I am interested, this government will live with this budget, this Council of Ministers and this assembly of this year, and we are adopting it for this Parliamentary Assembly and adopting it for this composition of ministers, Budget for 2001, and the second is that it is a narrow framework. Therefore, the Budget and Finance Commission remains on its proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3663	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3664	I wouldn't want to discuss it any further, because I thought we were at the end, so, in order to overcome the problem, I'd like to make a suggestion. When the discussion came to an end and after that the President of the Council of Ministers and what Mr Matić said, I think it is acceptable, but it is a little illogical that the Deputy Minister of the Treasury came forward afterwards, but he gave quite... to you, it is a problem and now it requires new discussions etc. If Mr. Deputy gives up his proposal, which repeals these amendments or reshapes, I think we are on track for a solution and we can adopt, therefore, in accordance with what is said, in line with the fine. To the Commission, to the Budget as we have it, with the addition of what the President of the Council of Ministers has said, which is that freedom stands, or that we re-coordinate it according to a certain procedure, we adapt it to the needs of the Parliamentary Assembly, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3665	Mr. Chairman, here I am not satisfied because I have not received an answer to any of my questions. Something the deputy minister said, but he didn't really answer what I asked. As for the service of external debt, he did not answer whether it was an old debt or a new debt, whether it was coming back together, he did not answer me by what criteria, i.e. on this as proposed now, the RS should pay an excess of 11 million and 200 thousand. If that's not any different, I want him to explain it to me. Whether it is returned as it is in charge or in parity one, two, that is one. 24 Second, I am not responsible for the Council of Ministers, for which it is necessary to be parallel and for which the cabinet of the President of the Council shall be spent 204,000, neither shall I be responsible for the joint services. I have also had a comment on these 600 and another 200 grand has been added here, and I am glad that those from the commission have seen it, because these from the ministries have been in the initial this proposal, too, proposed for municipal maintenance costs, but now this amendment has been expelled, I want to be explained to me where these 800,000 are going, what is doing so significantly. Next, to explain to me the Office of Audit Fine. Business, he's got double the salary, which is why they have 26 employees, and this statistical agency has 14 and more than double, and I realize that when this is looked at at at the end of the collectively, fact-finding me for the service of foreign debt, we owe about 212 million and 100 grand for the total costs, about 90 and some thousand 91 million more, which means that we can't be in debt anymore, because we can't, if we're in debt at this rate, we'll stop, we'll eat ourselves, we won't be able to exist as BiH either as a Parliament or another institution at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3666	poslanik Spasojević extends his demands and answers. The president of the commission, Mr. Belkić. I would then have one proposal from all of this, respecting, normally, the opinion and the Commission's position on fine. And the budget of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3667	The Commission did what it did and submitted the amendments. Of course, if the House of Representatives chooses differently, or if a different mood prevails, we will sit down again and reconsider the new situation. That's one thing. However, by listening to Mr. Matić, as Mr. MP from the SDS said, I understood that it was important that 304 million and inside what was happening is a matter of our House of Representatives, I didn't get it very well, it's not possible, but there it is. That's probably not what Mr. Matić meant, so it's all the same that he's at the joint services of a million and the Ministry of Refugees desk. That's how it turned out no matter what we say, we respect the Council of Ministers' views very much. So, the commission stays with the amendment, but I told you when I explained that the promoter, obviously and the commission had no reliable parameters, that in some way, however, we were unbiasedly informed by the congregation services. We haven't heard from the other budget users. Niko one knew exactly how to answer us, I totally understand it, whether it's really a state of employees, whether it's a systemization etc. a series of elements and if you remember what we suggested as a commission to this assembly. We have proposed that this budget be adopted with amendments, that we give importance to the Assembly, that we say that, but we have suggested that the conclusion is bound by a resort monostration, so the Ministry of the Treasury of BiH, that by the end of May, it goes into the process of rebalancing within Mr. Matić, not in relation to verticals, the increase, the reduction in figures is gone, of course and we understand that it is difficult to expect more significant changes in the level of Budget, but in the internal structure, and until then to check whether exactly what the congregation services have written is that their salaries are least, that they are missing 50 people, that this is, that it is depressed etc. in relation to others, and to explain this well, because the Constitutional and Legal Commission has also received that information. So, these are things that the committee couldn't propose. In the case of external debt service, etc. The resolution ministry has provided us with information, 25 I think all MPs have received, who has had time to study. I studied it and clearly and we as a commission asked for the conclusion that, apart from the data of the internal data, the old new debt, by entities etc. to see who the end-users are and whether they can always, whether end-users are located and whether they can pay if they have incomes etc. whether you have to go to the country, etc. and we have warned of the degree of duty, the risk of duty, etc. We asked for a series of explanations from the motionary. Something we didn't get, but it was always our goal to bring the Budget. Here we are to respect and to believe that this assembly is depressed to believe that the funds are not working, all MPs have supported and the Commission remains with its proposal, with this conclusion that by the end of May it is done, to proceed in the process of rebalancing, but indeed by the principles and criteria, which would be generally applicable and apply to all users. We asked the question, who's funding everything from the Budget State, and said, "The Budget can only be financed by someone who's legally determined to finance himself." Whoever decided this Parliament was determined to finance, therefore, there are a series of unfinished issues, but it kept hovering to make a request to the Budget, here we have done what could be done. I suggest you plead on this proposed budget text with the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3668	I propose to the Council of Ministers that we end this. I will also be free to deliver my opinion, thanks to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission. Deputy Minister Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3669	I would like to explain that it is not at all a different approach from my minister and myself as deputy, it is only phases. I wanted to agree now on an intervention that would solve one knot, and what we choose to do is to rebalance within the framework that we have been dictated, the IMF decree that we do so in an argument, proven and without lobbying, and that implies adopting those criteria that I have spoken about, and that implies one more serious procedure of clearing all relations with all budget users. I have to tell you that we've been working for a month at the Treasury Department by catching bills that are illegal and so on. I have to ask you to understand that the Treasury Department has been operating practically in October of last year and I'm asking for joint cooperation in this tone. We suggest that we try to carry out this intervention in this situation, but if the commission remains in that position, we have nothing but support and listen to what you say and ask that we end up like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3670	I thank the Deputy Minister. You won't mind if I get up and make my proposal to adopt the Budget. I'm asking for that degree of tolerance. We also spoke at the SDP MPs' club and I propose the following. It means that the draft budget of the BiH institution is adopted, along with the Commission's amendment to the fine. and Budget. 26 3. I am making an intervention with the Commission's amendment for fines. and Budget that only the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees should be left with the intended amount and in favour of the exiles in terms of internal reviewing and functioning of the ministry and that the focus is on returning the exiled and displaced within the ministry. I only propose a degree of tolerance, I ask you, so just for that ministry to remain the intended figure as provided for in the Budget Proposal. That's below 3. 4. I propose that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights, propose to this parliament, as Mr Malkić has suggested, means an active plan for Srebrenica and respecting the specific problem of returning exiled and displaced to Srebrenica and all that is related to Srebrenica. It means that we are proposed in the form of a special programme, namely an active plan for Srebrenica. 5. To deliver to us the Council of Ministers in writing systems and principles of service of external debt and the degree of wear-out, i.e. the entropy of this BiH country from the perspective of borrowing abroad, means that this is what we get in writing and that simply all MPs are informed of it, and 6. To expect the Council of Ministers, efforts to rebalance with the definition of new sources of Budget BiH by the end of May of 2001. I think we could reconcile with these conclusions and with this little correction of the Commission's proposal for a fine. and Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3671	I really don't understand us here. How complicated it is to adopt the budget and we've already been just to vote, and now we're back to square one.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3672	We didn't go back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3673	Please, you're violating procedure. Only here can the amendment, with the amendment now changing again, be re-scheduled by the Commission for Fines. and the budget. We're back to square one. These are all the little finesse he spoke of and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So, that's to end, so, please, let's adopt the amendment and adopt the Budget while we're here, and before that it's just that a fellow explanation that he's set up specifically, if we're not going to leave it for another session, about the debt, about his service, because we're like a new convocation, or I know, but all colleagues don't know both Parisian and London who's the percentage of returns, how we've come to this and what further dynamics will be about it, and what a question my colleague from the club asked about 600,000 that are destined for these municipal, later increased by 200 what it is if there isn't, to leave it to prepare for the next session and today we adopt the Budget. First of all, the amendments as they go by procedure, if we're going to change something in the amendments, we're going back to square one. It remains new 2-3 hours at least until the completion of the procedure is opened and I think we are close to a very complex act that needs to be adopted in this way, please. If we go back to the debate, we won't get anywhere. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3674	I thank Ambassador Tošić. poslanik Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3675	Mr. Chairman, I disagree with your proposal, and I think this Mr. Tošić said well and here's why I disagree, because here what you said about the Ministry of Human Rights, the refugees that were taken down, was taken off pay only, and they have 73 employees and the Ministry of European Integration has the same 70 meanings for three workers is the difference in 250,000. I don't think that's why what the Budget Commission has given us is an amendment. We shouldn't touch it. If there are somewhere else, that is, these funds that have been taken down to put themselves as refugees without returning this to the salary that it is. For which three workers would have 250,000 at their disposal. What is more important than the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is more important than the European Integration. There's no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3676	Considering that this point is very important and that we should not cut across, by joining the vote, it is obvious that we have differences in opinion between the MPs, the commission and the Council of Ministers, that is, the minister and the deputy minister. I propose, in order not to ad-hok define the amendments, we have here already defined 3-4 ad-hok amendments that should be on the committee, I'm in front of the SDP Club-- I suggest a break to meet the committee together with the ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3677	Wait a minute, this is a legitimate request.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3678	Then I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3679	He's looking for a SDP MP's club, to amend the report from the fin and budget commission. She's entitled to half an hour's break. Thank you. He sent hours off.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3680	The Finance Commission and the Budget cannot meet, decide, it must receive an amendment and should have been given before the session. We can't sit until we get the written amendments. Well, there's no budget today. Well, don't, we have a new amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3681	To take advantage of this break and avoid repeating the things we've already absorbed. In turn, how the debate took place today in Budget. We had, in fact, one amendment to the draft budget of our parliamentary committee for 28 finances, and then we had only one more amendment of MEP Malkić, who procedurally to discuss it. We didn't have any more amendments. We had something in shape, an ad-hok of amendments or a proposal to correct the financial committee's amendment as outlined by the chairman. In the meantime, all the debate and all the complications to say so in the understanding caused us not to get a clear, precise response from the Council of Ministers to an amendment that was procedurally clearly delivered by the Finance Commission. In the break, I ask the Council of Ministers to determine, if the position offered by the chairman is and if the amendment is accepted by the Council of Ministers, it automatically becomes an integral part of their over-the-counter budget and we go to the vote, with the obligation of the chairman to put the amendment only Malkić on the table. The situation is very simple and clean. Every MP has the right to make an amendment. I said he's only procedurally controversial, because it takes 48 hours. So, if we're going to respect the procedure until the end, we need a response from the Council of Ministers and a statement of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3682	Half an hour's break. The SDP MPs' club asked for a break, Dr. Kušljugić. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3683	Ladies and gentlemen, we have also asked the President of the Commission, who is the official promoter, that they did not have reliable criteria on the basis of which they gave the Budget Proposal, and therefore we have asked for a break to come to an clarification on the proposal to be voted today in agreement with the Ministry of the Treasury, the SDP Club has asked that they be once more apparent on the Commission's proposal, so that we can continue to work on the procedure envisaged.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3684	Thank you, Ambassador Kušljugić. Deputy Minister Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3685	In order to achieve better co-operation between Parliament and the Council, we cannot take the right to Parliament and its committees, in fact the House of Representatives, in fact to define amendments and we cannot block them. We have offered an argument that shows that the amendments, to a significant extent, disrupt relations within the existing concept of the Budget, and since this is the case, we propose that these amendments be presented to the House of Representatives and, if accepted, it automatically implies that we must enter into the making of the budget rebalancing frameworks defined by international agreements, and if the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives together propose appropriate solutions, which would increase the income of BiH institutions, then this would give room for the rebalancing to be extended to that part of the additional income, 29 if we create assumptions to provide these additional sources. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3686	I thank the Deputy Minister. So, the path to adoption of this agenda point is open, meaning the budget, with Mr Malkić furmulating his position through the amendment. He made it possible for him to be entitled to Article 94(3). the possibility of intervention with the amendment after the start of the discussion and consideration of the Budget. However, we have suggested that this be passed over to the suggestion, that is, the conclusion or request of the Council of Ministers and I ask Mr Malkić that, if he agrees with this idea, we do not burden the adoption of Budžet, and that we define the Council of Ministers' commitment from the point of view of Srebrenica. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3687	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of being imputed by some at the time of the break that with my proposal, I intend not to bring in the budget. On the contrary, my intention was to point out once again the problem of Srebrenica and Srebrenica and all that they had survived or experienced. I believe that the proposed amendment, and since the chairman further explained it, or procedurally indicated that he had the possibility, can find his place in the budget, if I must already be forced to withdraw it today in the coming period to be in charge, but by concluding or deciding to assign the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to provide for a budget of up to a million marks for the current year in the process of making the rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3688	I thank Ambassador Malkić. This is not contrary to the objectives of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure and the possibility of functioning. So I'm also withdrawing my intervention and I'm going to suggest it under point 4. The report on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement, which means that we have removed the disturbances, means we are returning to the original original proposal, means the Budget of BiH, with the adoption of where amendments and the Commission for Fines. and Budget form an integral part of the text and a simple document called the Budget Institution of BiH. Who's in favor, please? We said it in conclusions, I apologize. We can formulate it one more time. It means that, the Council of Ministers is wanted and expected information on BiH's detailed debt, obligations created and potential for BiH's credit capability in the coming period. I think that would be something else. He's right, Ambassador Spasojević. If the answer can be given immediately, if it can't, then in writing we'll give the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3689	I appreciate the question that is asked, but you need to look at the program of work of the House of Representatives and there is a special point of one external debt service report, as specific information, and there you will have all the information. For you esteemed colleague, you can immediately get documentation that is interesting, which interests you, 30 if there are any additional questions you can ask through Parliament or directly to the Treasury. To other questions, allow me to answer you professionally and reasoned in writing, if you are not satisfied, please enter Parliament to state that we are not improvising here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3690	poslanik Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3691	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3692	We agreed. Please once again, who is to adopt the Budget of the BiH institutions, with an amendment that is an integral part of a document called the Budget? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you, there isn't. Anybody got any abstentions? One abstention. We can conclude, then, from 32 MPs, who are present 33 -- voted for 32 MPs and 1 was abstentioned, thus saying that the budget of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was adopted and in this context it is not necessarily an entity vote. Thank you for this tolerance and understanding and possibility of agreement and consensus on this crucial document for BiH. We're left with point 3. In conclusion, I meant that it was an integral part of what I pointed out, if we should vote in particular. To be asked by the Council of Ministers to include Mr Malkić's request, which is defined and which is in the record, with the possibility of new ones being opened. Can we adopt that? Thank you. Not to make a statement in particular, that is the conclusion that simply is the request of the Council of Ministers. Can we do that, Malkić guy? You got it. Thank you. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2001. The Financial and Budget Commission has already given its opinion and opinion. Okay, I called you, if there's anyone outside the Council of Ministers, Deputy Minister, thank you. I'm opening a debate at 3. Proposal for a law implementing the BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH for 2001. Whoever answers the word, with the amendments, it's understood. Who's answering for a word? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Who is in order to adopt the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2001, along with the normal amendments submitted by the Financial Commission. and Budget. Thank you. Do you mind? Someone restrained? 31 Thank you. We can say that with 33 votes to adopt the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international obligations of BiH for 2001, normally together with amendments that form part of this document. Ad.4. A report on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH We have in writing material that has come to us from the former Council of Ministers and we have agreement yesterday reached that the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Krešimir Zubak, has submitted a shorter preliminary presentation on this ministry. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3693	Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr. Chairman has said, you have before you the material that has delivered to you on the benches of the previous Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. It is as you see here delivered, actually made somewhere in October – 10 months last year and therefore it is not up-to-date and current at many of its points. I'll only give a few notes about it. Namely, and if this material bears the name of the report, which would be to conclude that it is a report on the work of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, it is, by its content, in fact, as you had the opportunity to see an analytical information material, which gives a presentation of the situation in this area of refugees and displaced persons, about what has been done so far, with some indication that the ministry took action in the meantime since the date on which it was founded until the day of the production of this material, and the ministry was founded, or started to work in July of last year. So, first of all, it's about one analytical-informative material in which they give first comprehensive data, and that's the value of this material, the comprehensive state data in this area. They're not, like I said, up-to-date enough and I'm going to use a few more data, which we're currently having these materials up-to-date on. So it is clear from this that in the course of the war in BiH around 2,200,000 people have been launched from their homes, out of which 1,200,000 went beyond the borders of BiH, and one million remained within BiH's borders. Today, according to the data we have available and the data has been drained, primarily by international organisations dealing with this problem, this ministry has only done the conpilation, has obtained all this information, statistical and other, and has done this material. So, according to the data we now have, there are 617,000 people outside BiH and they are deployed in 40 countries. Of those 617 thousand and 350 people, I say again, take this data with a small reserve, the largest number of them are in a certain way adapted or integrated in these countries. We do not have accurate data here, but the estimate is that about 50% of BiH refugees who have gone to third countries have been integrated there by obtaining permanent residence permits or temporary residence permits in those countries, and finally that is the assessment. Of these 300,000 people who have not regulated their status in third countries, many of them are trying to secure themselves 32 of that status in those countries. It is difficult to say now with which number it can be, these are estimates counted as potential returnees in BiH, it is currently difficult to assess it, but our estimates say that somewhere around 200 thousand of these people intend to return to BiH while the rest, as I said, is looking for an opportunity and a way to stay in third countries. When it comes to persons who remain in BiH, based on registration data, or re-registration, there are currently 518 thousand persons in the status of displaced, 518 thousand and the largest, and evenly distributed. About 50% in the Federation of BiH and about 50% in RS. According to the data we have, if again I am building up, they are not absolutely accurate, since the signing of the Peace Agreement to date, 723 thousand returns have been registered in BiH, of which 367 thousand, I speak round refugees and 355,000 displaced persons. The Federation of BiH returned 79-80%, the remainder of 20% to the RS area. In the past 2000, according to our data, 78 thousand refugees and displaced persons have returned, or about 11% of the total return to BiH since the day of the Dayton Peace Agreement. In the last year, when it comes to return, something is more balanced, not something, but it's almost completely balanced, so the Federation is being repatriated from that 78 thousand figure, about 56% has been returned, and 44% has been returned to the RS area. What we're using is that a large number of us don't like to use it, but it's entered into the teminology, so I'm going to use it, so, when it comes to minority returns, it's registered 195,000 since the signing of the agreement so-called. minority returns. It is mainly about returning to the Federation of BiH area. The second thing that's important here is indicators, some of the indicators we have, we don't have complete, so implementation of property laws. In the BiH area, by the end of last year, a total of 249,000 claims were filed for the return of property 249, out of which 110,000 relate to social property and 138 claims for the return of private property. At the same time, 111 thousand were made, 111 thousand solutions were made, decisions which, that is, 40% which allowed the return of property, but the realisation is very bad. The property was returned to 51 thousand of these housing units, to say the least, 21%. When it comes to the number of claims filed for the return of assets, then it is almost uniform in both entities. There are no big differences. But when it comes to decisions made in relation to the applications made in the institutions of the authorities, it is an absolute non-balance. The biggest battle of demands is about 60% brought in in the Federation of BiH and the rest in the RS area. So, we have inequality in this area too, and when it comes to certain municipalities in BiH, then we have municipalities where this job is going pretty well, you could say very well, but we have municipalities where this problem is not being paid any attention. Here these are in the shortest state in this area, which as you've seen, if you've had time to read this report that's been delivered to you before, some data is different. 33 When the word is in the activities which we now carry out in the Ministry, I would say to you as soon as possible. The ministry in the previous meeting, apart from this job that is very solid, has collected all this data from international organisations, which are dealing with this problem, has done another good job, which is that it has drawn up a common priority return plan and this priority return plan has been given in the process of relevant international institutions, which are engaged in financing and implementing the return programme, but in addition, several regional ones that are working on the ministry in the current meeting, several regional projects, so we will offer several more by the end of May, in addition to this priority, more programmes to international associations that are ready to assist the return process. Talks with the European Commission are under way, we expect soon, information funds have already indicated this and suggested talks with the Organisation of Islamic Countries. We had talks with the US administration, i.e. UJESEID, first contacts were made with the Republic of Croatia and we will have complete insight by the end of the 5th month into what we can realize in this year when it comes to rebuilding housing units. So far, with UNHCR, we have a registered, or signed eye, consent to the reconstruction of about 16 thousand housing units. We have foreseen, according to our work plan, that, by the end of the 5th month, we will deliver to this Parliament a complete information on the situation in this area, therefore, embedded, updated, on the one hand, and that we will fully inform you of what we have provided in the negotiations with donors in this calendar year. We, in parallel, will start making a comprehensive project within the ministry for the next year 2002. We also hope if donors are less and less in the mood to engage nicely. funds for reconstruction, reconstruction of houses, infrastructure, etc. We hope that in this and next year, based on these programmes, we will withdraw enough funds to make the largest number according to our records now registered 400 thousand return requests, so that the largest number and we succeed and realize. So when I say about 400 grand, then it's about exactly the listed people by the name and last name. Part of what we plan to do is, and activities within the Stability Pact. The information funds have already been notified to the public, we have had a meeting here, or a session of the Regional Returns Pact, and we expect that through this association, therefore, through the Stability Pact, and on the basis of the request for return to the region, to co-igulate and withdraw the additional funds we need, therefore, that these plans, or programmes in this and next year we realize, and if what I have told you sounds quite optimistic, I still want to underline what I have already said, therefore, that there is an increasing readiness of international associations, institutions, donors to give these purposes, more and more of these funds want to focus on other intentions in the reconstruction, economic reconstruction of BiH and other needs of BiH, and we will likely have to provide here in this Parliament with and through the entity institutions of the authorities, provide their funds for return. According to what we have now, you have seen these 3 million famous, which have barely passed this budget, which is what the state is planning, about 25 million Federations, but they haven't brought a budget for this year, and we don't know what resources we can plan with when it comes to the RS budget. So we need to focus more and more on our own resources to ensure the return of those who want to spin their homes or their homes and, therefore, I use this opportunity and I plead to you, when there is already a rebalancing of the BiH budget in the next 34 years, that there is also a need to help return to Srebrenica, but also otherwise to identify greater funds for return, because unlike the previous years, a great interest has been shown in this year, a great interest of citizens, regardless of the nationality of returning to their homes that are exiled and displaced and we are, in fact, now we are entering a situation to create a favourable climate to improve the security situation at BiH level, that we have a large number, so-called. Initial associations, i.e. citizens' organisations, local or wider character that encourages a return, but now our wish for return cannot be so much followed by these funds from the international community. We would, therefore, as the ministry appealed to you as I said we had this in mind and in the next period much more funds from the state and budget of entities and cantons and municipalities would be used for these needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3694	I thank Mr. Minister Zubak. This was a necessary, necessary piece of information from the aspect of these, one of the most important points we face. Also, the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, and in this context the renewal of multiethnicity and multinational... BiH and allowing fundamental human rights to return to their own. I'm opening a debate on the preliminary presentation, on the material that you've obtained and normally your knowledge. President of the Human Rights Commission, Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3695	The Honorable President, distinguished colleagues, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, held a session on March 12th and this report, after Mr Zubak's presentation, has already become a little outdated, but I will read it anyway, because it is the Commission's position. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum at the 2nd session held on 12 March 2001 discussed the report on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. The Commission has conducted a broad discussion on the report and has found that the most priority issue is the provision of conditions for the return of exiled and displaced persons to their own, and that the Commission is not satisfied with the results of Annex VII implementation. In this respect, the Commission insists that every citizen and his rights should also be the state. In view of this, the Commission adopted a series of conclusions regarding its activities in respect of the exercise of citizens' rights. As far as the Commission's opinion on this House is concerned, the Commission proposes to ask the new Council of Ministers for a review of this report, which is the addition of the report, before the report was submitted by the Council of Ministers of the previous call and, from the time the report was adopted on the Council of Ministers' Council for more than five months, it is possible that there are new facts, and here, just a moment ago, Mr Zubak announced that, at least by the end of the 5 months, we will have a very current report and then we will be able to say a little more about it, and I hope that the Commission that has passed its enquiries and the Ministerial Council and the entity governments and the cantons will receive all the necessary information, so that it will also be able to carry out a valid work together in front of the Commission and the Council of Ministers and before this House. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3696	I thank the MP and the President of the Commission for Human Rights. Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3697	Ladies and gentlemen, esteeming the previous two speakers, namely Minister Zubak and Mr President, I will make an effort to give just a few concrete data and suggestions, given that I worked in the last two years at the Federal Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons at the site of an expert co-worker to return to RS, and then don't blame me on what will be more words about behaviour in RS and I have some suggestions that I would suggest here to Mr. Zubak. I'd just keep going, add a little bit of data. At BiH level, claims were submitted for the return of property 225,295 are orientational. In the Federation of BiH, 119,000 in RS, 106,000. Solutions have been made at BiH level 77,979 in the Federation of BiH 54,000 and in RS 23,000. However, solutions made, which are most important for displaced and avoided faces, are moving like this. In the Federation of BiH, 30,383 solutions were made, excuse me, at the level of BiH were carried out 30,383. In Federation 21,868, the figure is now slightly larger, and in RS 8,518, now that figure is somewhere around 9,000 and something. Now all I'm going to do is give you information, specifically in Sarajevo, so I'm going to compromise it with Banja Luka. In Sarajevo, 32,000 returns were filed. It's 19,000. The other 13,000 solutions are in realisation. For these 13,000 should be done within the next 6 months, as it was made, since I attended the Sarajevo Housing Committee at the same time, so a decision has been made on the Sarajevo Housing Committee to make these 13,000 solutions within the next 6 months. Banja Luka, 16,024 applications have been filed. Of which 9,222 requests for return of dwellings and 6,802 requests for a house. You have to understand that in these 6,802 requests is not a final number, because the request for a return on property does not go out of date as for apartments, so there are people who haven't applied for a home return yet. From that it was made, of these decisions to, in fact, carried out 1,797 raids. Of which, 540 houses were returned and 1,257 apartments were returned. You see the difference between 16,000 and 1,700 means 11-12%. Here is one information that is fratern 550 houses on the level, in the area of the Unsko-San canton, the owners of Serbian nationalities have sold and still live in the houses of Bosniaks or in apartments in the area of Banja Luka, Prijedor, Bosnian Dubica, Bosnian Nova, Kostajnica, etc. That's the data, I have at the same time and a few suggestions, thanks to this work I've been doing so far, so I'm a little bit more involved. Pressure should be stepped up on the municipal authorities of both entities to speed up return to cities, especially in the Serb entity, because very, very few devasted apartments are there. Targetly and systematically by name and last name, donate construction material from the Federal Ministry of Disintegrated Persons, from the Cantonal Ministry, from the State Department, because, you know, this so far, the Federal Ministry sent for last year 36 160 and some convoys, and none of that convoy was targeted at a particular person, so now we have here at Canton of Sarajevo we have trnasium centers. The law says that people in the transit center can only be 15 days in it, and we have people in transit centers that are three years away. So, you should leave Mr. Minister, have the data, take out the data and those people who are in the transit center, if they had houses in the area of return, aimly build houses for them, to empty transit centres so that a further process of migration and liberation can be continued. Let's take another here, concrete information. To put pressure on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the projected funds of five million marks, which we were, I was an MP in the last meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, accepted Mr Dodik's budget, only because he put five million marks into that budget to help the returnees. However, he did not spend any of his single stamps on those purposes. So that same one, the five million were transferred to this budget for this year at Mr Ivanić. While we have also made a decision on the Commission for the Protection of Human Rights, more frequent meetings with refugees in the countries of Western Europe and the Scandinavian countries, through our people's clubs upstairs or through the embassy or consulate, not only when we need to go to the polls to go up and then promise everything. I have another proposal, in my opinion one number of RS return offices formed on the basis of a decision by the last government since 10 months 1999, because they no longer serve their purpose, at least one part of them. As for these reports, here we are now getting a six-month-old report. Knowing from experience, every three months the ministry federally, both federally, so cantonally, so the other ministries make a quarterly report. So now we've got this report very old. Now for the first three months, you haven't said if there should be a report somewhere in the fifth month. I don't think there's any problem with technical or any of this report coming in at the end of the 4th month for a parliamentary debate. Now I'm just going to read the position of the BiH Party, whose representative I am, when it comes to displaced and avoided faces. The BiH party appreciates the issue of returning the displaced and fugitive central issue and the first condition for exiting the crisis. The party is not prepared to accept any general objectives and conclusions, nor partners in government or international community. That is why we, as our resolutional demands, set the following goals. The return of displaced persons must take place within the next two years. The return of refugees will follow the process, but it is not a priority, except in case of return of Serb refugees from Croatia to Croatia and Croatia to BiH. The BiH government, the RS government, the Federation of BiH government, the Canton government and the international community are committed to achieving this goal. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly should adopt an operational plan within 60 days of its formation, which will ensure the achievement of the law on displaced persons and refugees and these targets on BiH's territory. During the first six months of 2... years, all cases of double use of other people's property must be solved on any basis: returned assets, sale of assets, exchange of assets, no refugee status, etc. Only by achieving this goal would get rid of 30% to 35% of displaced persons in the BiH area. I, gentlemen, claim for sure that 35% of BiH's least in the area have double users and those who have sold their houses and apartments and live in other people's areas. Here's proof of the 37 best 550 houses sold in the area of Unsko-Sanski Canton, and there should be insistence with municipal authorities, in the emergency services, whether these are tax collection services, catastries and something like that, they have data that they sold, they would have to deliver that information to the ministry. Within 90 days, issues of socio-economic status of returnees must be regulated legally. Returning to their jobs where there is health care, social protection, education and other rights, and in accordance with Annex VI of the Dayton Agreement, because gentlemen without Annex VI there is neither Annex VII nor vice versa. We forget the human rights that are not met at this point. By the end of 2001, all displaced persons in BiH must be disposed of. Priority has a return to cities that require less fine. funds. In the first six months of 2001, domestic authorities at all levels and the international community must provide the necessary accommodation for those who will not return to their property and use someone else's. No one in BiH is working on it today. In 2002, the focus was to place a refund on refugees from third countries with an emphasis on experts. These are the views of the Party for BiH, and we will push our best to extend those positions in this parliament and stand behind them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3698	I would like to thank Ambassador Šašivareviš. Who's on the phone? Dr Kulenović asked for an MP, Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3699	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, dear guests, I have listened with attention to all these previous discussions and all of these presented facts give me the right to what I was going to suggest before these presentations, and regarding this item of the agenda. For all of us here, it is very well known that the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement is a matter of all matters. That's where it got as far away as it got and I don't want to elaborate it here right now, but these, uh, these reported data they're alarming and worrying. It is good that, at the level of the BiH state, the law was passed and it was passed at the end of '99, right after that in 2000, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees was established, and here you will allow me to be brief, it is said that the primary task of this ministry is to take action with the aim of achieving and protecting human rights and the rights of refugees and displaced persons, to coordinate the work of all bodies in BiH, but also international agencies, etc. I'm undermining this to coordinate. What I'm trying to say right now. I would like the most, and I would also suggest here that we all think together and help the ministry, that if it is necessary to pass, according to this existing law of some other sublaw, or perhaps even go on to amend and supplement the existing law, in order to transfer this very important project and all the guidance regarding the implementation of the Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement to this ministry or the state of BiH. I think that at this point would be the most complete, and it's high time for this very important and most important issue to come to me organised as soon as possible. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3700	Thank you, Ambassador Kulenović. Ambassador Dušan Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3701	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I share the opinion of previous speakers who have stressed that the problem of refugees and displaced persons is indeed one of the most difficult problems of the present BiH, although the state has a number of other very difficult problems, this is indeed one of the most difficult problems, given the fate of a large number of people and families who have been in one difficult situation for years, unsettled status, without a certain future, many not on the brink of existence, but below that minimum. I think there's a lot of talk about this piety, often it's being abused, and I think the German apolitical party that in its pre-election performances has not devoted a significant part of its speeches to this problem. Many have promised towers and cities, however, in practical, concrete work, very little work is done, not enough, certainly not enough to solve this problem. So I think that we need to be practical, we have to propose some solutions, which will speed up the resolution of these problems, that when everyone is practically taken care of as briefly as possible, it means that we welcome that day as soon as possible for all those people under pressure from war, not by their own will to leave their hearths. I think they're the biggest losers, except for those who lost their lives or body parts in that unfortunate war. The Dayton Agreement is clear on the issues of refugees and displaced persons. It says in Annex VII that they have the right to all return to their homes, and it also says that all those who do not want to return have the right to stay in the place of residence, where they were, I mean by signing the Dayton Agreement, I don't know maybe some other date, so there are these two possibilities. There's a possibility of a return, there's a possibility of survival, a stay where he was at that moment, with certainly the possibility of having his property on the other side or selling or replacing. I mean, when it comes to this issue, I was also talking about the pre-election of our campaign that we need to get rid of both politics and even some political interests and all that this issue comes to an extreme human being, that every family, every single one of them, is going to have a situation of self-determining to decide what is at a concrete, difficult moment most acceptable to him, which is the least accident for him and both the other problem, and those who want to return have a problem, which is why, although ideally, if they could all return to their homes in pre-war places of residence, but to find normal living conditions there, means that it would be a sustainable return, which means, in addition to that elemental security, housing, the minimum of living space, and third, which is the most important possibility of economic existing in that place, means a minimum of some work from which will be provided for the minimum family existence. Is that the reality of the current BiH? Whether both the RS and the Federation of BiH can avoid, a large number, we heard what Minister Zubak was talking about earlier, whether we can provide such conditions to those lunatics for such a short period of time. How realistic we are in all this. That's why I'm talking, it would be ideal for everyone to come back. However, this other variant should not be ignored, and this is the possibility of those who want to stay, to stay and help them to sort out some way as soon as possible, they have a problem with resolving the housing issue, because most of those people who do not want to return do not want to return because they have already started some jobs, so they have provided some minimum existence. It's not usually some business that they're happy with but they only have so much that 39 can survive. If they're forced, it often happens to come back from where they came from, they have their own property, they get a roof over their heads, but they don't have a job. So those who come back, they get a roof over their heads, but they don't have a job, those who stay have a job, that's in most cases like that, but they have a housing problem. So to break this vicious circle, we must help each other. To those who want to return, it means to help their apartments, their houses to be freed as soon as possible and to enable them to return to what Mr. Šašivarević was saying, meaning as far as possible, normal conditions to socialize in that new environment, which is certainly not easy after these ten years, since they left that former environment. Five years of war, the negative emotions that many people have in their neighborhoods and neighborhoods towards them, but besides, they still need to be helped to reach employment. This is, unfortunately, the main problem, the economy is here and above all, the main problem of foreign investment is no, no economy is being run, no large system that has hired thousands of people in BiH has been launched and will not be launched, we are awaiting property transformation, we are awaiting privatisation that will leave new thousands of workers out of work and that in such conditions allow people a sustainable return. On the other hand, those who have managed to do this are again some private small business, work with privates, Malta not many deal with these gray flows, economics, smuggling, etc., that's all the little man is pressed to survive. They can be helped in my opinion by being allowed to get paid, I think there's some discriminating, that's the attitude of the PDP, and I'm personally sharing it, there's a discriminating law that's been imposed where there's no payout for people who want to stay and where there's a law in the Federation where the returnees, or people when they get the right to their apartment, have to wait two years, means two years of extending these torments to get the right to buy it and sell it. I think we need to change some things. We need to be practical. We need to meet every bullish little man who's been a victim of all this that's happened in the last ten years, not in the last ten years in five years since '91. - '92. So until the Dayton Agreement is signed, that's why I'm proposing, so a step is in that direction. We have to, and it's too bad there's no single information system, what Mr. Šašivarević was saying and that's true. We don't know, there's a lot of double users, you don't know. I know some examples of people I contact to have an apartment here, that he brought his apartment back there. It also happens that a man got a dissection there, as he was returned to his house here, he came here a house occupied. So there is no unique flow of information, and this would have to be done at BiH level, if every municipality knew who was down there, where he lived before, whether the house was free or not, and the moment legal conditions were created, it would automatically have to be delegated there. So there's no collaboration between the entitiae between the cantons or between the municipalities and it's very bad and I don't think it's a big investment, to make one such system, to allow people to use all three of these variants, and in such circumstances, the process would go a lot faster, than it is going now, so this problem, which is really difficult to solve successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3702	Thank you, Ambassador Stokić, the word has been made by MP Mijatović. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3703	Dear gentlemen, I am on one occasion, it seems to me during my first address that we should not really hold a single issue of political epipp, the time of the political elections has passed. They should implement the results of these elections and also on Annex VII to the General Framework Agreement. I think that all the political parties have given in the election campaign, answered these questions, and I really think that there's no one else against going back to their own and that it's unnecessary to stress it here right now. Just as it is unnecessary to set deadlines, I would like Mr. Šašivarević to do what I say must be returned, I immediately welcome it, just let the recipe say how to do it, and there will be no problems, normally, as one of the most complex issues, there are many manipulations, and if we have. wrong approaches and digits, comparison of some indicators that can be both such and such, then we will not solve anything, and the complexity of this question as it is said here and in this report, says, in order to give a quality assessment of the reasons for such a situation, there is a need to introduce many elements that are particularly related, the number of real returns to pre-war addresses, the number of relevant returns, re-reciproved return to BiH, with this only change of refugee status in the status of the displaced person, a period of easier under the quotes and the difficult returns and the duration of time and the choice of other administrative solutions in BiH and the past. You could also list in this sense as much as you want to prove the complexity of solving this problem. In order for this issue to be resolved as high-quality as possible, I think that one of the biggest problems really is that there is no harmonised legal regulation in BiH, both between entities and BiH and entities, and it is necessary to particularly insist on harmonisation of property regulations and rules in the area of housing law in entities. I wouldn't repeat what the predecessors said. I could replicate Mr. Šašivarević, but I won't, with the intention of not causing any further replication. Look, he's got some data that might be accurate at first sight. But when you cross them, then you can draw a conclusion of whatever you want either positive or negative, depending on what your intentions are. Like. I can tell you from the middle where I come from, that there's really no resistance, and I don't think anyone wants to keep other people's property, or try, is fully aware that it can't be like that, but we have a situation, for example. Here, that there are over 70 vacant Bošnjak dwellings in Trebinj and they are not coming. On the other hand, these people who got kicked out, they're on the street, believe that's the exact information. So, the question is a very complex or harmonising of regulations at the level of all those states that are only signatories to this Dayton Agreement, and this applies to both Yugoslavia and Croatia. A special problem in RS is that it really has a large number of refugees or displaced persons from Croatia. We in Trebinj have a large number of refugees in Dubrovnik they have no right to go back to Croatia for now, and that puts the problem together, what we all really want together and what I agree with the predecessors not to repeat that it is a priority, etc. to make people exercise their rights. Personally, I think the questions we're exhausted on are protection of private property. When it comes to the protection of private property, so who can be smart or not so smart right now that they can dispute someone's private property, believe that with such delusions, even if it's me or the environment I come from, even for most people, it's never been a question. Problems are far more difficult in nature. Here, I'd come back again, I've talked to you and I don't know if I'm going to make a mistake in the terminology with 41 senior representatives to solve these problems in Trebinj, he's been begging me, since he found out that I'm in the Parliamentary Assembly, that I'm in the Parliamentary Assembly fighting for a position. He was surprised by the Constitutional Court's decision on those two years of household law, etc. Believe that people in this sense, I know that many will immediately say that I am now speaking tenorously, but for which they would not allow me to allow people who have made a permanent decision, and believe it by no means, to change the place of residence. I also know those arguments that BiH's multiethnicities, respect and so on. but also the right of a man to replace a tenant's right. If he did so without coercion, and can do so, here is a political environment that no longer uses these elements of coercion, and these are human rights to change, if it is of its own choice and of its own accord, and believe if it is some 5% of the people should not be counted that this aspect would endanger BiH's multiethnicity, etc., but thus would solve the suffering and suffering of this most vulnerable population, etc. I honestly think, that despite these reports, the torment of those people who have found themselves in this trouble deserve far more attention and observation in this sense, and after this text, and this is the report on the realization of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, and he is not, what we all, in front of all political parties, are now going to say that we are simply to return everyone to our own, to try to collect predominantly political points, and not allowing these other opportunities, that is to mention again, really respecting the freedom of each individual, that he says this, without the elements of coercion, which perhaps, I am aware of it has some place, etc. but it should be distinguished in order to solve this problem as successfully as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3704	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. Ambassador drag Stanimirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3705	Let me try to be in line with the discussions so far, which were really very concrete, not to repeat the political platforms of our parties. A lot has already been said in the discussions so far, and I would like first to welcome the constructiveity of the debate so far on this issue. Also, in my presentation, many of the answers he gave in his opening part, Minister Zubak. What I think is important, and what kind of comes out as a sort of a consensus of political parties, based on these discussions of ours today, is that Zasa is a successful return but also a stay, namely the realization of Annex VII of refugees and displaced persons, indeed issue number one for all levels of government in BiH, and so for us here in the Parliamentary Assembly. For this reason, I believe that, too, all the structures of the authorities are required at the ground level urgently and immediately to adopt concrete measures programmes, the minister said something about what has been done so far in the past meeting, so no time should be wasted, but in April the month is there. If we miss the time now, I'm afraid it's not going to happen to us to analyze what we didn't do in September. It's something that should be done right now. As for the very document that we've been reading, I think that a few things are very well indicated, but the main problem is that the report is over five months old, so most of the data that are listed there is incorrect, or outdated. The report itself shows that two key political elements, which is the political will of 42, are to begin the process, especially in the past year, in which there have been some progress in both entities, are indeed rapid and approach the implementation of property laws, however, in this year, as far as possible. Secondly, the harmonisation of the relevant laws at the level of entities, such as the law governing the issue of housing rights, the fabric of other property laws and the implementation of these property laws. Someone was creating about the creation of a committed political environment, and I think that in that sense all institutions must try to implement what is in their jurisdiction. What my particular objections are, first in the report on page 5, but later on and on page 11, and the minister mentioned it, is about so-called. minority vomit. I think that, given the decision on the constitutionality of the people of last year and what we do in this year, it is absolutely unacceptable and from the point of view of the SDP as one of our basic concepts that we will never accept a policy that leads to the creation of ethnic clean spaces and territories, and in this sense we will insist that a different term be used by the ministry, because I think it has been unacceptable so far. If necessary, then, the structure of the population may be stated and implemented in a different way. Next, I said the data was mostly out of date. On page 8, we are told that on July 25th, he started a list of displaced persons and exiles and returnees with a dad's deadline to end the activity by October 25, 2000. However, as far as I know, we are not as MPs familiar with the results of this list. I have received unofficial information that the results may not even be valid that a registration will be necessary during this year and that is another very significant element. I'd like to join those who spoke about the fact that when planning the budget rebalancing, we need to make sure that this ministry gets the opportunity to realise at least part of the commitments it has on the agenda this year. So those who have read the Budget Proposal have seen that since the original version, which was about 10 million KM for this ministry, practically, this ministry has been cut off in some way for budget funds, so what we have adopted is below the 5 million KM regular point, so below 50% of the funds that were planned. Furthermore, I think it is important to point out that, it is necessary to come as quickly as possible to coordinate what is actually said in chapter five, when you say located limiting factors to a successful return process. I think the problems are quite well-listed and, as a result, a practically defined role of the ministry, so the role of the ministrstvo of Refugees and Human Rights in BiH as co-ordinator with entity ministries and international organisations. A whole series of ministry duties are listed here from the completion of the database that some of my predecessors spoke of, the necessary records of regular update of needs, then the sector for refugee return projects, I think it is a element in which the ministry will work in the next period, the work table for the return of the Stability Pact and the regional return plan, ie interstate council for co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and I think it would be necessary, in particular, to provide answers to these 43 questions, so where are we now, in relation to these numbered activities, which should be delivered as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of May of BiH? Furthermore, I propose that it be adopted as a conclusion that the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights delivers regular quarterly reports on the dynamics of the realization of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, and I believe that it is necessary to enable participation in the work of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons again, from the Ministry to the municipal levels, representatives of all constituent peoples in both entities, and in particular I think it would be important that there be representatives who delegate in this case representatives of the association, returnees, therefore, it would be very important that the return associations be involved in the work of the ministry and ultimately, there is another particular issue that opens this report, which is not directly related to Annex VII, but is mentioned in this report, and I think that it is very important for me to comment, where a large number of people have been released in BiH by January 7th, 1996. So, I'm going to try the formulaist proposal now, whether this is in the jurisdiction of this ministry or not, because it's in the report. So, to pay particular attention to this problem, because in this structure, the highest percentage of young, educated people are on that last survey, which says that at least 62% wants to leave BiH and I think it is necessary that, if it is in the power of this ministry, the ministry first declares that it is accurate data, because I think it is unsustainable to say that BiH has left a large number of people and then specify the measures that this ministry and all other institutions in BiH and at entity level are going to take to stop the outflow of our young educated people in foreign countries, that is how much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3706	I thank Ambassador Dragi Stanimirović. Next MP, Mirza Kušljugić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3707	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus my discussion on the expectation that we will have this on the agenda again in May, with the ministry probably coming out with its information this time and with a very concrete programme of measures, and in that sense my discussion would be to sort of focus my priorities and possibly open up some new questions. I want to believe that the political environment in BiH exists for a return, at least it is shown in this parliament here. As for the security aspect, which we also consider to be something that is mostly satisfactory, I must say that I do not think in certain areas of BiH the return project is going, among other things, for the reasons that war criminals still remain at large in those areas. But, given that we're talking about very practical things today, I want to talk about this problem in terms of human rights, and I think that justice and morality is something that must be a particular point in our next work. Finance will be a problem forever, and there won't be enough. The social and economic factors of sustainable return are not only a problem for returnees, but also for the demobilised and unemployed, but I would suggest to the ministry that the system approach in their future work as a priority number requires that we actually rule the information. If five years after the signing of the 44 Dayton Agreement we have estimates of what is happening in BiH and we are reading information that there are some houses that are being released and no one is returning to them, that there are double users and we do not know where they are and who they are, then I don't think we can build a serious project in BiH. I would ask the ministry to tell us by May how long it's within what time period it's ready and able to have one reliable database that will give us answers to questions. If houses are available somewhere, which is why we are finally witnessing that the OSCE, among other things, and among our colleagues in other parliaments, had to withdraw with its mold that you cannot be on the list, if you are users of other people's property. I think we need to introduce a lot more morality in all of this. Also, I think it is very important that this ministry, at the level of the BiH state, co-ordinate international projects. Evolutions show that they are not the most common, that they are not always an effective spent asset not to open this story now, in which way international organisations spend their resources. I think this parliament should support the ministry, that this co-ordinating role in defining priorities should certainly, in talks, be imposed on international organisations in some way. Thirdly, I would love to have an answer in May to what the real range of the Stability and Regional Framework Pact is, because I am glad to be back, that we are discussing the BiH Parliament, but the return is obvious if we are looking at it in an integrated, problem both BiH and Croatia's SRJ. As much as it's declared goodwill, and as much as it's ready for both the two and the third ministries, or the government to also financially support these programmes, and finally, I think we're a little beginning to face the problem that's listed here, to solve the problem of returning and applying property laws, we're getting a new category of people in BiH, these are so-called. new homeless people who have been in their specific jobs for ten years in this BiH are in a position to remain without accommodation now with the application of property laws. In BiH, many mechanics go and offer loans for residential construction of 12-14% interest. I think it should be done on the Council of Ministers to examine how we can start, I'm talking about commercial loans, I'm not talking about donations, I'm talking about housing in BiH, because this way the housing solves those who don't want to go back, and the property isn't destroyed, which means they want to change their place of residence voluntarily, they can come back, they don't need to be helped by donations, they need to be helped with loans but not loans with 12-14% interest at the level of the year present. If we don't solve this problem, I'm afraid this process of leaving the BiH people will accept exchanges of experts from BiH and I'm watching it integratedly with the resolution of the overall problem we are facing today. Mr. Minister, these were suggestions, I urge that we approach systemic problems, and I think that without information, creating a non-serious one, based on estimates and speculation, there are some houses that no one has returned to, I think, with the political will that we all have, we can get. Thank you very much. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3708	I thank the emissary Kušljugić. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3709	I think I have so much experience to respect one of the key principles of political work, it's that, with the principle of encouragement, you constantly cherish the hope that things will move forward. However, I will probably be the first in today's debate to knowingly give up that principle, I must admit that what we are talking about here is six years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I'm falling into the category of people who are very critical of the results, especially when you're reading the latest reports of the ombudsmen of both entities or independents, say, hum. ALAHELSINKIVOČ and the second criterion, I want to tell you to your face in this room over 50% of the people who have been policy makers in the last ten years who have resulted in the numbers that the respected minister spoke of and I cannot save my soul without knowing in many very sophisticated discussions that I do not recognize and the kind of alibis for what we have urged people in the past ten years. I want to debate a subject that was restarted today, and then it's called a return and or survival. My ambition is to contribute a little more accurate understanding of this, especially since we are able to be like 42 people who represent the legislative authority of BiH in Parliament, especially in the field I have opportunities every evening and for you to listen to, very different interpretations still sow illusions in the citizens of BiH. ...for this assessment is a single-party property law for which you will find confirmation in all political decalcations of political parties, which make up the parliamentary composition of BiH, but it is my accident to watch, too, television or walk around BiH and hear from the names and last names of who daily interprets in BiH. I'd be clear, I'll be very specific. My way of understanding the political messages that are being cherished in RS is still to be openly pleaded in the form of survival, I say survival still, and in the Federation, unlike political entities in RS, it's just this little glare that's been done in secret or at least so far worked. Which is the central problem. By listening to today and to an esteemed minister and before understanding the data, when you just add them up a little bit, you will first come into the quantitative relationship of those who decalculate themselves today, and I speak very, very, based on very credible databases and these are the elements of the re-registration, that is the last database for which we can claim to be very credible. It's compared to over 900,000 people who want to return and about 200,000 who registered to stay. Our policies aren't nearly in these proportions. Another problem in decomposition, let's say, these kinds of political messages are, which is very difficult for us to go through okay, as staying as a human right of choice at the place of choice of life but not in other people's, you'll see when you analyze it through the fate of working families, six years after the end of the war, and you'll see that it still has forms of political definitions. I can individually be grateful to you as the people behind this pay phone are your cheeks for these good intentions, and I'm afraid life goes a little bit differently over the course of time. Therefore, my first proposal that, in May's analysis, we get very, very much, in addition to the project, if I understood you to the respected ministers, then you will present such a unique project independently of where individual decisions will be made, of course, in agreement with the entity's constitutions, local, local legislation, etc. but to get a once public, open picture of the role and influence of local authorities to solve this problem. You seem to have indicated to me through one sentence that it is probably the largest distribution in success from the municipality to 46 municipalities, from all of this data you have just shown. I first interpret the pragmatic implementation of different policies on the ground. I wish that was within that shearing rate. There's a 60-70% difference in rates here. Secondly, it is politically important in BiH that we overcome the level of declarationability under Petrich's property law, rather than convert it, I will be free to say folkly in a home. There's no controversy about it, there's another thing where local authorities are going to find themselves in a position to be open, to pay for it. We can discuss social solidarity in that variant but not at the expense of property rights, and treći, I would ask all respected colleagues who in the most beautiful version of human understanding consider the problem of the rest. To once publicly announce what sources of funds these are sources of funds if they can cover that political variant in this country. For six years, I think I belong to caring listeners. I haven't heard from anyone alive. Because I consider those 200,000 people as unfortunate as these 900,000 people. I mean, I publicly claim that it is irresponsible to advocate such a political thesis and that there is no one in this country who will find the resources to, for example, prove problem-solving. I'm joining fellow Šašivarević, I think 42 of us have a moral task, that what is certainly possible, let's do, let's say, this procedure of 30,000 people who have a double use of the apartment. There's no hypocrisy here, and I'm not going to say different policies. We have all said that all people have the right to their own, and we also agree that we cannot be soulless towards people for whom no solution can be found right now, but this is certainly a category in BiH for which we can quickly finish our work and prove this degree of political will towards the care we show for the problem of refugees and displaced persons. I think it's going to be the first test that will show whether my grades are correct about your kind of political hypocrisy or whether it's really a political twist, I'm going to be obliged to bow down to all those who prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3710	Thank you, Ambassador Bjelobrk. Replica, Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3711	I'd like a brief comment on Mr. Bjelobrk's exposure. This is a classic political EPP. I can understand you, Mr. Bjelobrk, because you, here you have won power, so you need a certain period, I don't mean the complete Alliance, but based on this presentation of yours, I think of you, that you're a little bit more distracting that people unhappy. Look, you come from one thesis, as in RS it's politically so, and if someone advocates, as you say, survival, I haven't heard that expression before, I apologize, and here in the Federation who are false, etc. And on that you build your own thesis. I don't know what you're doing, but if you were the mayor of Trebinj or anywhere else, it probably wouldn't have occurred to you to advocate that political as you say survival, you know, because there are hundreds of people out there who would be the easiest mayor to get back. Therefore, he does not think to convince them to stay, as you say. I'm a real man. If you don't believe it, come and see it. Well, I don't know if you were, I don't know what you saw or who you could find out what you're trying to place. 47 Believe me, I was extremely honest when I was saying that. These are my contemplations as some kind of call it a People's MP. Where you heard it and where you saw it, I don't know. But believe me, now you're an MP, you're going to be next year, you're not going to get any more EPP, but they're going to ask you what you've realized from what you've been saying, and that's why I'm saying that we don't need to talk politically here anymore, but we need to figure out how to please people to honor all of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3712	Thank you. There's no replica. Ambassador Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3713	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen and I also agree that we shouldn't be doing any political marketing here, but to see specifically what we can do to help these people. I think very often about whether we really have a desire to solve this problem. I don't think we do. Here's what I'm gonna say. If we're going to solve this, which we didn't allow to replace the rent rights. I here responsibly claim that none of the Bošnjak who came from Zvornik to Sarajevo will return to Zvornik. And I'm responsible for this, and I'm saying that so far they've replaced a large number of them and replaced the apartments, let's say, probably in an illegal way, but they've replaced them. If there's a need, I wouldn't want to say right now that I'm giving these people away, but it's certain that people have replaced it, no matter what we're not legally regulated. So if we wanted to solve it, if we wanted to, I think thousands of people, that I'm not throwing myself around with some data right now, so thousands of people would solve it if we allowed a replacement of the rent rights. Secondly, I have to comment on this Mr. Šašivarević as he was saying: "19000 returns to Sarajevo", so please only times 4 means that 76,000 Srbin now have it in Sarajevo. We in RS would be too pleased if there were 20,000 and if there were obstructions, then there are in Sarajevo and I responsibly claim this and for the next time, I don't have enough data, so I'll bring in by name and last name, exactly the people who were in Zvornik looking for a return of their property and didn't get it. Next, if we want to solve it, when it comes to saying, private houses and we talked about staying. It's not disputed that those people who are double-users, so there's no dilemma there, I mean there's no dilemma in RS or anyone, so there's no dilemma in those who sold their assets, so in the end, that kind of people get expelled and dissipated, so that's what the problem is. The problem is those people whose property is destroyed, it doesn't matter which side. The problem is these people. I'll be specific again. One village, a Serb village, near Banovic, has now moved to a Bosniak village in the vicinity of Zvornik, has about 500 houses. Those houses in Banovici in that village have been destroyed. Those people can't come back now, so it's not a dispute that they don't want to come back, they want to come back, but they have nowhere to go. Now one number of these people want to stay. How can we help these people? Mr. Bjelobrk, if we're going to help, you asked where the funds are, I say again if we want to, so one of these three million that we adopted today. One part can probably help fund the Federation, one part of the RS and one part of the municipalities, and it means if we want to do it there, we can, if we want to. 48 When I was talking, I say there's another category of people, we're just not being honest. There's a number of people who can't come back. You can't let them get to you. We can tell the story now, but they can't come back. They want to stay in RS, if they can't go to RS, they'll go to Yugoslavia, if they can't go to Yugoslavia, they'll go somewhere else, here's an example, the latest example of people who are in Bratunc, so from Hadzic they don't want to go back, they can't stay in Bratunc, they've signed somewhere over the spells of 3,800 signatures, so they've asked to go somewhere else. I repeat, so if we want to solve this issue, we can, but we don't seem to have enough wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3714	I thank Ambassador Miloš Jovanović, the next MP is Bahri Omanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3715	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and respectfully to welcome the representatives of public information, which seems to be not favorably addressed by this very subject, so a small number of people have the patience to listen to such burning problems of the return and application of Annex VII. I went out for this pay phone to express my dissatisfaction first, which this item of the agenda came up after such exhaustive, exhaustive work, which was to be dedicated especially to one congregation, which would only have one item of the agenda, which is the application of Annex VII. Since I represent the vast majority of over 50% of the pensioners, whose representative I am here, I am particularly interested in the implementation of Annex VII. For what? I'm interested in the results from the field, and the fact that it's vomited and it's come to its own estates, who these people are. Are they old people who can't even take care of where they are or what they're from or what they're from? I'm interested in the information on how many experts have returned to this country's rust. As part of my return today, I haven't heard from any of the debaters how and in any way to stop leaving. We're being abandoned by healthy, skilled, smart experts. We are left with a population that has nothing to live on, and I am asking you for the next session and I am asking the Council of Ministers – the Minister to address us with fresh data, because this report we have is five months old, and day by day the data is variable and to ask the chairman to give us only one item of the agenda, because this is a problem that overcomes all the problems in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3716	I thank the MP. Riac has MP Abdurazman Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3717	Ladies and gentlemen, immigration issues, refugees and asylum are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions, so I ask that the ministry, not to coordinate the work of the lower bodies, but to take over the role of leading and implementing Annex VII or returning. And with this, I suggest that I propose that the Budget, which is symbolic for the purpose of addressing the 3 million-dollar refugee issue, be significantly increased and that the ministry actually assumes the role of leading and realising the Annex VII return. The political environment to return, surely, is made, of the verbal nature. He's also on the field. Exile citizens are getting more and more, let's just say, they're making 49 returns. For what? Because they are forced to do so, for reasons of implementing property laws, so it happens that we also have in Trebinje in Sarajevo in other places empty apartments, but in what way, in that case, we have going to overseas countries, which is in Europe. For this reason, I would suggest, I would support fellow MP Kušljugić that he must work on building new apartments and on a commercial basis for those who can't, and for those who can't, it is necessary to find, make plans, make suggestions for the minister, plan for alternative accommodation on a temporary basis, so that those who can't operate are on the street. For one of the regular sessions, when the minister will offer a more concrete plan, i.e. a more concrete return plan and also a report on the implementation of Aneks vi, I would ask him to put information on how many truly Bosanac have gone outside BiH. According to these materials here, it's about a million somewhere. Whether this number has increased to what extent. Also, aneks vi, which speaks of refugees and displaced persons, is said to have a basic task in realising, the implementation of refugee rights has a Commission on property requirements of refugees and of the CRPC known as the international commission. It seems to me that she's just estimating the situation, with no real ingenuity that she should be following the Dayton Agreement and the law that we've passed at the state level. In order to strengthen the realization of Annex VII, I would ask the Ministry to send one note to the lower authorities in order to strengthen the control of the abuse of refugee status, i.e. for the persons who sold the property and the persons to whom the return of the property was made, from where they were exiled. I would also suggest to the ministry and to all of us here to impose a concept by OHR, i.e. RPT-fa, in part change. First of all, they want to see the returnees in the hearths and then to train houses, or facilities where they could live. It seems to me that the exiles who have lost their health in the places where they are, that they need to lose it further in their own hearths, in order to wait for something to get better for them, I think it's the shaving of the exiled population. Two more conclusions. The safety of the returnee is greatly improved. However, there is no more intense and return to the greater extent, for the reason that education still, the education system by quite force, let's say national programmes. I propose that an initiative be taken from here, and I do not know to what extent it has been achieved that a minimum single educational programme at BiH level and one of perhaps more significant factors for a minor return are, which is still accused that on the public lists, those on the secret lists do not get arrested and are accidentally walking past, within the returnees. Since the Ministry for the next one of the sessions will prepare us for our return plans, I've been thinking of discussing it, but there's no way they're gonna do it, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3718	I thank Ambassador Malkić. The word has an MP named Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3719	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, the importance of this issue motivated me to go out for this pay phone, although it was already quite a break in the time of our work today, and I would immediately say that I support on my 50th part this information prepared by the refugee ministry earlier, with of course this preliminary explanation and addition provided by Minister Zubak. In view of, of course, the fact that information presented in the information is inaccurate, but esteeming above all information-defined factors that limit, regulating this issue of the greatest importance for the citizens, the peoples, for BiH, and considering, of course, the measures that have been extended in this information and in whose square Minister Zubak has given these additions, which I therefore support. Of course, I also support the proposal or should I say I support two proposals right now. The proposal that this House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH receive appropriate information, through which we will be able to monitor this important issue and, on the other hand, that, with the participation of the Ministers and his deputies, we are also getting insight into something that I am holding to an important proposed measure here, which is the role of this Ministry and the Council of Ministers to solve the problem of refugees and displaced persons, their return and regulation of their status at all, because I would not repeat, I believe that the importance of the BiH institutions is particularly important in this area, and immediately to remove any dilemmas, because I have no intention of pollemising or wanting to, in fact, to encourage the controversy, I do not mean the political dimension here, but in a purely functional dimension and I expect that understanding, when this is a very sensitive issue, the position of these unhappy people in question. Don't think that with this functional or potentiating functional dimension I'm neglecting this terrible I'd say the human meaning or the human weight of this problem. Narpotiv, I believe this functional approach is, in fact, profoundly human, because it helps resolve these fates. Just for illustration. We heard a few very detailed discussions yesterday, about so-called. Balkan syndrome and this loan to regulate the water supply of Tuzla and which was another city, and Mostar, something that was encouraging to me, precisely in terms of saying overcoming this functional, productive approach to problems in the sense that we couldn't share BiH, in a way that one or that I would be better off, if I could solve the water for myself at the expense of someone else. In this sense, I believe that this functional approach to this extremely difficult, most delicate, most sensitive issue at all of BiH's social and political realities, so that we also tell ourselves that we will not be able to solve the problems of refugees and displaced in BiH successfully until, above all, we who are here and people in the BiH state bodies allow the opinion that the problems of refugees to work out, so if one side or someone solves the problem of their refugees, just past or against the long-term refugees, or refugees from another nation, another entity, but not taking into account the situation in the whole area of BiH, a refugee issue, a question for all, to say so to the citizens of BiH. Just, then, for illustration. The same functional human approach, and in this case, I understood today in the discussion of my colleague Mijatović, who is truly sincere, so I understood him and I had the intention to carry on with this positive sign in some way in his exposure, when he showed, very honestly, I would say the failure of the legal solutions we have in the Federation and pointed out in some way the failure of the legal solution that we have and in RS, or pointed to the need that we have and in this material, as the first measure of regulation of this, or the correct resolution of this problem, the unification of this legal regulation. 51 From the point of view of displaced and refugees and the troubles they have, I think the side issue is whether two entity laws or one state or two of the same entity laws will apply. However, I personally hold the Federation's wrong and law, which makes it impossible for people to sell for two years, but colleagues from the RS when they talk about the shortcomings of this solution, do not speak, we speak without the intention of opening up the controversy, as on the other hand it was also an unacceptable solution in which, to the price of 30,000 marks, property could be sold in the RS only. And finally, the right to remain is a legitimate right in circumstances in which people have no fear, have no limiting factors to return, when full security is ensured, then it will be a full right to stay and to be human, and in this sense I hold, and in that sense, I am willing to pollemize, that fellow Bjelobrk with one political exhibitionism, I don't know why he put one more political tone into this debate, which I hold unproductive and not useful in, relying on these policies which in the Federation are subtly, therefore, a little more hiddukic, there is brutally providing something that is, in fact, the production of the situation, which we all have previously declared ourselves against. I mean, I'm being rude, maybe it's a rough qualification, but I'm holding that this exhibitionism, these some figures of open survival, subtle rhetoric today objectively interrupted a course of consideration of this problem that was productive in my court, and finally, it's very important this question, I've had some suggestions to supplement these measures. There may be other opportunities to discuss this, but I would invite MPs to continue to take due care of what they are saying and, perhaps, with reckless statements, do not question us to question ourselves in some of our intentions. A statement by SDS MPs, I think fellow Jovanović, that no Bošnjak from Zvornik will return to Zvornik is for this home and for one MP of this assembly, least of all, unserious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3720	Please, I'm here now. I'm not in progress. Keep that in mind. I had to be officially absent. If it's a replica, then it has the advantage of anyone who wants to replicate. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3721	I know exactly what I said. I said no Bošnjak from Zvornik who has an apartment in Sarajevo, I repeat, not now none but who now lives in Sarajevo from Zvornik came to Sarajevo. So I mentioned Sarajevo. You said that in general. So I'm talking about Sarajevo and having an apartment in Zvornik. So, I was talking about apartments and those in Sarajevo, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3722	Thank you very much. Is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3723	I have cited it as an illustration, for something that is unacceptable in my court for this home and for the way that we here need to... in our discussions. Kola Jovanović did not offer any argument, on which he would convince me that he was polling Bošnjak from Zvornik who have apartments in Sarajevo and based on that, or they authorised 52 politically to say on their behalf whether they wanted to return to Zvornik or not. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3724	Thank you very much. Rijeka has a colleague, Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3725	I didn't mean to discuss it, and I'm going to respect your break and I'm not going to be extensive. I'm, I mean, the most qualified person here to talk about refugees, because I was a four-year-old refugee and a four-year-old displaced face. I'm the same lawyer, and it took four years to get my house back to Eggs. I'm not going to talk about this report, I think it's a good thing that he found himself here, which collected data, which he tried to analyze the situation and it was good that it was done at the state level. Until the dream, I don't know if it was, but I think it's a serious shift, but I'm just going to say that the main obstructions are certainly political nature and that the main obstructions are at the level of the municipalities. You know the composition of the municipalities. You know the authority of the council, you know the jurisdiction of the Commissioner under the Law on Local Self-Government, and now you have thousands of solutions made by the commission, the Dayton Commission for Property Rights, but in the municipalities it's up to them to implement those solutions. The executive procedure doesn't work, the municipalities don't want service equipment for that kind of thing. They won't resolve the question, and it's a domographic game, believe me. All those who have taken positions according to some solutions from before, I don't know if they were agreements, whether they were silent agreements, trying to preserve most of their municipalities now and directly obstruct their return. If this council, this parliament fails to establish that communication with the executive government at the municipal level, we can only talk about a return. Today no one mentioned Drvar, Glamoc, Stolac, Capljina and many other places in the Federation where there is no freedom of movement, in the right sense of that word and in which return does not go at all and therefore complete obstruction. We know that in municipal councils it is not the same structure of MPs, not the same parties in power, and I know for a fact that the obstruction of return is a political issue. This is about human beings, I wouldn't talk about human beings, I'd talk about the right to return, and I'd talk about a political problem of not being obstructed. I know the limitations of this parliament, we know the limit of BiH's competence with regard to bottom-down and municipality-related ingenuity, but if we fail to link it and if we fail to influence even through the international community, the returns will not continue to go and they will be obstructed. We know it's also incriminating. The obstruction of return is now a criminal offense. There are a few procedures that are conducted specifically in the Eggs, and that's just for my example, but it's not going right again, because it's the condition that's been inherited. I am convinced, most of the return, which has been achieved so far by the pressures of the OSCE. I've been here for four years, I've been a lawyer by profession, I've entered well in the way the vomit is obstructed, and I think in Sarajevo, under pressure from the international community, what's called the Sarajevo Return Declaration. In all the small places, as the OSCE combines to exert pressure and to raid these executive structures from the crime and various others, with their pressures, so goes the return. Make sure it's not just an economic issue. There's more space, there's double use. In small places, people have taken the entire entrances of residential buildings and today they are being held and there is no movement of serious ones in it. I am so and thank you for listening to me. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3726	I thank Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić. I'd like a few words, too. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members, I would like to present some information from the point of view of those materials that we have received from the Return Office in northeastern Bosnia to Tuzla Canton, a few opinions, opinions in the opinion of people who are indeed the bloodthirsty housewives on the return of people to their homes. So there is no dilemma that at the top of the list of priorities and the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the OHR's international community, the OSCE, especially the UNHCR, which, by signing the Dayton Agreement, received a responsible role in providing financial engineering and infrastructure for the return of people to BiH, on the highest list of priorities of all these institutions. But, objectively, the reintegration of posdejton BiH from the aspect of returning exiled and displaced has been objectively given the name or characteristics of a spontaneous process. A spontaneous process not managed by the state is based on a simple level of organisation of return offices, current authorities at the level of municipalities, i.e. municipalities, cantons, entities and BiH as a whole. In this sense, it is important to know one characteristic, which is that this is a process of spontaneous character, and in this context it is certainly not sustainable from the aspect of the perception and dynamicization of the return of people to BiH and BiH displaced and exiled in 2001. The illustrations work, in northeastern BiH, electricity and drinking water and road recovery were provided in one part of the return settlements. However, at least 65% of return settlements these issues are not solutions and there are no real prospects that they will be resolved within the next six months. One of the biggest problems facing exiles is the same, what we say is a sustainable return, or self-sustainable, I think it's already a spent category or a spent term in BiH, and in this sense it's certain that people have to find the possibility to live on something, means that they can be hired somewhere or objectively form a small enterprise, with the help of an international community or some other credit institution, etc. It also highlights the situation, absolutely, the asymmetricity of the legal regulations between the two entities. For the sake of illustration, Article 152, you well know that the Law on the work of the RS says that before wartime residents in RS, businesses are not obliged to re-employ. So, this asymmetry, this is just one example that people point out here in this letter, the document, objectively warns that they have to harmonize the enteriotic laws and take a step towards enabling even conditions, from the aspect of the legislation, we have also talked about replacing and everything else between the two entities, which means that this asymmetry of legal regulations, objectically, is partially slowing down the process of returning to BiH as a whole. So, I suggest next. Unsustainable is a spontaneous return process. If we want to dynamic the return jury in BiH, objectively, it must go towards a sophisticated report that should be obtained by the Council of Ministers with a elaborated fin. By engineering that return, that's the return plan in 2001, I'm talking about him. I am talking about simple insulating, full insulating of the international community, especially the UNHCR, which is obliged and responsible, I repeat again for financial engineering and allowing return to BiH to design the role and function above all, means municipalities, cantons, entities and the state of BiH as a whole. In this regard, find opportunities for this item and the position in the Budget to increase BiH institutions objectively and make it possible to dynamicise returns in 2001. 54 In the end, I wonder, is there any forecast when the return process will end in BiH and when can we expect this return process to end? I know this well that it's a long-term process, that people come back 10-20-50 years, etc. But objectively BiH, I have a feeling it can no longer wait and in this context restore Bosnia and its multinational architecture is a condition of BiH's sustainability, stabilising opportunities, political opportunities in BiH and certainly to the greatest extent the climate and simple impact of BiH on the stability of this part of the Balkans. So, without restoring BiH's multiethnicity, it certainly won't be restored as it was before the war, but there is no alternative from the aspect of BiH's functioning as a complex state union, made up of two, as we say a multiethnic entity, and in this context, here is a basic proposal that the Council of Ministers, given this session today, the views of the Commission on Human Rights, Experiences and Reports of last year, a programme of measures for 2001, from the old composition of the Council of Ministers to make up a whole-scale project of return for 2001. Thank you. Now he has a word, Ambassador Violeta. Ambassador Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3727	Respecting all previous debaters, the opening statement submitted by Minister Zubak, I think it has given some dimensions and views and I think it can be accepted. Here is the mention of the Unsko-Sanski Canton, where it was said that 550 houses were sold, it turns out it was only sold there, so I would ask for one full piece of information, to see in the whole of BiH how much was sold, replaced, etc. Objects. We know that on the UN-Sanese Canton, the Bosnian Krupa is one of the most destroyed, so I'd like to pray that there is an implementation of the return. Also, the Bihać municipality thinks it provides a fine example of implementation of property laws and security aspects. As for the Dravar, the bosanski Grahov, I was there, too, I think there should be a little weight shift, a mood, people coming back, etc. I'm talking from the field because I was there. I also believe that this assembly deserves more support from the international community. We're making a great effort. Today we heard a mile here, I think those words were for both the ear and the soul of the returnees and all the citizens of BiH and that we brought a new spirit here and that's very important. From that point of view, I would also suggest more active involvement of the College of the Assembly and the Resorship Commission of this House in the realization of Annex VII and the establishment of one conclusion that would require stronger financial and any other assistance, the implementation of Annex VII as a reflection of the qualitative support of all international organisations, states and so on. by saying that we have excellent examples of international organisations, individuals from international organisations, individuals from international organisations on the ground who show by personal example how to implement the return, by going to Srebrenica to Banja Luka in Krupa, etc. in the woodwork. I think that we should personally give these examples, and it would be good to have this home on that plan personally to make our own examples within the committees and in the context of mixed compositions to visit the field and on the ground to see the problems of those who return to their hearths, and if there is a need for some, or, and I think that we should also carry out work on the ground, I think that is not the problem, there we will join and practically make a modest contribution to the return. So much and thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3728	I thank Ambassador Šarganović. Is anyone else answering for a word? We don't have any more logs here. Ambassador Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3729	The Honorable Presidency, respected delegates, the importance of this problem has moved me to report for a little discussion, too, if I can help solve this problem. It is as complex as it is known and one of the conditions, the first conditions for our country to enter any euro of Atlantic integration to realize the conditions of return of refugees and exile to its hearths. So far, the international community has invested five billion EURA in our country. According to recent studies, 75% of people under the age of 25 would be very happy to leave this country because it does not see its perspective. It's not here, it's not about nationality. You don't give up your perspective. Who's staying? They stay old. We're going to turn into an old country. These donors, so those who invested in money, have to justify what they invested it in and have these indicators based on recent research, their research. So the problem is coming back to us now. We need to help ourselves to get someone else to help us. We can no longer wait for solutions on the side, so I absolutely support the routing debaters who were in that tone. We need to bring the ball down to local levels. It is my proposal, and it is our responsibility here to be pragmatic, the Council of Ministers who should cooperate very actively at the local level, where the apostrophe of problems and with certain tasks of local structures are to realize these problems, and there is much, much and much to be done. When the world sees what we're doing, what we're doing, then you'll be safe and it'll help, but it won't help anymore and we won't do anything if we're passive and we don't do anything. I wouldn't go back to what my colleagues used to say in that sense, how it can be stimulated, in what ways, I think that's what my colleagues said quite well. By returning people to their hearths, we would be directly helped to realize the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people. So, the equality of all peoples, all three constituent nations in the entire line of state of BiH, and that responsibility is on us. So let's not wait. It's the responsibility of all of us here together to help the Council of Ministers, to help avoid and exile those problems, and I don't think we've used our reserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3730	I thank MP Buturović, and the opportunity to end the discussion is given by MP Mediha Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3731	The Honorable Chairman of ladies and gentlemen, the return of refugees, namely the realization of Annex VII of the Deton Peace Agreement, is certainly a matter of all matters for us and for our admission to the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, no one here has referred to the operational plan for the implementation of the tasks set out by the Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board in BiH, where page 9, says the return of refugees and displaced persons by stages behind which is the guarantee of the High Representative. Mr. Minister is, of course, 56 familiar with this and what is expected to make a plan to make it happen, and that the High Representative removes all those who obstruct it from the political scene. I wouldn't be doing this anymore, 'cause it's pretty much said. I agree with the lady that this should be one of the thematic sessions of Parliament Annex VII, but I would like to extend something to this parliament, which is that from the vocabulary, both our domestic and the vocabulary of the international community, we ask for a term of minority return, which is very unfortunately chosen, and here several MPs have appeared to have referred to it as being a one-of-a-kind term, in fact it was an English expression of mayoretitrans, I don't know who first came to mind, obviously it wasn't a domestic term, obviously that the international community imposed this expression on us, from perhaps some other conflict that was not appropriate to us, however, it led to confusion here in BiH and abroad, and it seems to me that this term “mind return” in some way gives approval in certain parts of BiH, some local power that this kind of return can be so much less than possible. Therefore, my prayer to you is to declare that the term “minor vomiting” is abolished in both our and our foreign vocabulary, because in some way it prejudges BiH's ethnic map, so you can come back here, or you can't go back to this percentage, so if you agree to put it to the vote, it would be my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-27-0.u3732	We have exhausted this debate on this important, important static Medihi of BiH's survival and the realisation of the Dayton Agreement, i.e. the reintegration of the post-dejton Bosnia, from the aspect of its return to its own, there are no alternatives and there are clear and political views and in this context every political propaganda is too high and counter-productive from the aspect of dynamicising human return flows in BiH. I will be freed from several possible conclusions, suggestions to the Council of Ministers who will prepare a proposal in accordance with most of the debates, means a return project and install everything that has been discussed today. I am suggesting on behalf of the House of Representatives, ending this debate, that we expect the Council of Ministers to have a full return project for BiH in the shortest time with sources of funding, dynamics and all that is necessary and necessary for the successful implementation of such a project, that is one. Two, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is fully and regularly informed of the dynamicisation of recovery flows and the underlying problems that arise in the BiH return process. Three, that the Council of Minsitarians is either suggesting or articulating measures to remain a young generation in BiH, with research into the main causes of leaving young people and leaving BiH youth. Four, to consider and propose harmonisation of entity laws defining the rights of exiles and displaced persons, particularly in the field of labour law, education, social and health care, etc. 57 Five, the Council of Ministers to propose a concept of co-ordination of international projects from the return area, that is Dr. Kušljugić, quite rightly, noticed in this context how much this will come into the approval of international institutions, remains to be seen, but it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to find a mechanism and way of co-ordination, i.e. simple participation and direction of flows to assist the international community in BiH, from the point of view of return. Six, the Stability Pact of South-Eastern Europe, to fully engage, towards the return of all refugees to the Soviets and ultimately to consult attitudes, we suggest that the Council of Ministers consult the positions of the BiH Peace Implementation Board, which define both expectations, logistics and the dynamics of the return of all exiled and displaced BiH. This darkened request, right? Ambassador Medihe Filipović, we can hardly put it to the vote. It's a pure, simple termological contradiction. In this context, you cannot, it is important that we can politically identify what is behind the word “mind return” and that is MP Mediha Filipović, quite nicely explained, and in this context it is enough messages for this House of Representatives and for all those who are not adequate in terms of trying to protect or stand behind some other views. Here, it is in short lines, fragmented fragments from the debate and discussion, expecting what is the Council of Ministers' move, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and, in particular, the Commission for Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary House. Can we get to the bottom of these conclusions? I mentioned him. I didn't forget the Dayton Agreement. I said harmonising entity laws from the aspect of labour law and everything else, I said. Can we vote for this? Who's in? Thank you. I'm glad we're unique on this strategic and human issue. Who's against it? There's no one here. Who's being held back? We have two abstentions. With 30 for, by MPs and 2 abstentions, we accepted these suggestions and messages to the Council of Ministers and in this context ended and realised point 4. It remains our obligation, this suggestion is applied by the College, it is to try to realize, to devise a thematic session in the second term with the same theme and the fifth point. Ad.5. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in a) the Organisation on European Security and Co-operation, the Central European Initiative, the Interparliamentary Union and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I have to say the MPs' clubs didn't fully agree on this. The criteria were partly made by two colleges, who on two occasions sat together with the House of Peoples. These criteria are respected and harmonised. It remains for the House of Representatives' Club to bring together unique lists. We've received part of the proposal from the House of 58 peoples. I am taking a break of 15 if possible, if there is a chance that they will agree, if not, I would ask Bogićević to say on behalf of the SDP. I'm begging you, 15 minutes break, it'll be 15 minutes before we waste and start in 15 minutes. He can go up at 224 on the second floor. Members of Parliament, dear guests, I thank you for this session, the 6th session when we accepted the temptation and responsibility to elect members of the Presidency, to adopt the Budget, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and to discuss Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, in conclusion, that there are nevertheless conflicting interests objectively, logically, normally, from the aspect of the constitution of these interparliamentary delegations of international character. [[PAUZA]] Since the House of Peoples had just come to life and the College only provided names. The people's home, so it is absolutely necessary to balance both the national criteria and the entity criteria, the party criteria and not to speak further, we propose, or the club presidents suggest that the selection of these committees and interparliamentary groups be carried out, we will have a session of April 7th, and I think we will not be late for any international conference, in terms of functioning, the actions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the institutions of international character, in terms of these four interparliamentary groups that were on the agenda. So, club presidents have suggested that this point be postponed for the next 7th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Thank you very much for your work today. The seat's finished at 6:15.
