ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u480	Dear envoys, dear friends, your Excellencys, honored guests, respected means of information. I welcome you all, and I am opening this fifth session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I can tell, all the envoys are in today's session, of course we have a quorum and it's very good quality. I moramr say that as you know, we have had the session, the session now, the second session in this session of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have, of course, had a large number of guests. Here comes the Council of Ministers in many, strong compositions, and I warmly welcome them. While the Ministers and the three ministers take their seats, I would like to inform you that the BiH Presidency is sitting today in the same time as we do, so at 10 o'clock and the Bureau members apologized for their absence from this session, of course we have a lot of understanding. You've won the agenda for today's session. I'll give it to you now, although you have that material read for a stenogram, then we'll open a debate on the agenda. The first point of today's agenda is: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly; 2. Report by the Commission to the College of the People's House on the consent of five or six laws. The first is the Proposal for a Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Taxes and Tariffs on Administrative Taxis, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of an Institute for Accreditation of BiH and the Final Draft of the Law on Sports; 3. Proposal for an election law in the first reading: (a) Proposal for a Council of Ministers, (b) Proposal for an Envoy, Mr Nikola Špirić, 4. Proposal for a law on the rights of ethnic and national communities or minorities, Proposer Ibrahim Spahić – the law is in the second reading; 5. Proposal for a law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce – first reading; 6. Draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Debt Act – Innovated text – first reading; 2 7. Framework agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank to regulate BiH activities; 8. Development Credit Agreement – Technical assistance project for the social sector between BiH and the International Development Association; 9. Development Credit Agreement – Social Adjustment Credit between BiH and the International Development Association; 10. Report on business of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office for 2000; 11. The resolution on economic and social policy in BiH – is proposed by envoy Ibrahim Spahić; 12. Resolution on Trust and Trust in BiH – Proposer Ibrahim Spahić; and 13. Answers the envoy's questions and envoy's questions and initiatives. You heard the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Does anyone want to talk, suggest changes and additions? So, as far as the agenda goes, there's Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u481	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the international community, gentlemen - fellow delegates, I would like to propose that today's session be put on the agenda of an initiative to amend the Council of Ministers' Law and to adopt a new law on the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it is very simple, so as not to further explain that we are not wasting time, it is one such initiative to pass a new law on the Council of Ministers by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u482	I thank my fellow Spahić. The college has been consulting here for a while. We think that there is no business basis, the law could enter – a text proposal, which means an initiative to amend the law. We've been consulting and we think, Mr. Spahić, you haven't received your word. You're looking for a word. The last item of the agenda is initiatives, proposals and issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u483	I know what's at the last point, I didn't even question it. I agree, since it is possible for Posovnik, as you well know other than the College, delegates are obliged to know the Rules of Procedure well. I'd like to tell you that I don't mind making it more complicated if I keep it to the sources of the initiative and I can go out with the bill in the course of the session. Therefore, I would not change my proposal, I will accept an important moderate concept, so that this could go to the part when it comes to initiatives at the last point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u484	Thank you for understanding, but it's not about that, it's about the Rules of Procedure. 3 Please adopt the proposed agenda. Who's to adopt the proposed agenda. The proposed agenda was adopted unanimously and I thank you for that. I think Mr. Zubak wanted to say something on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at this morning's meeting of the Council of Ministers, which we have otherwise postponed, we have concluded that we would cancel any misunderstandings that we have had due to the current meetings of this and the second parliamentary House, we have decided to nominate you after the adoption of the agenda persons, or officials from the Council of Ministers, who will represent the Council of Ministers by...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u486	I've heard since I'm close here. Mr. Zubak, please repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u487	We have concluded that, after the adoption of the agenda, we will inform you which officials in the Council of Ministers' order have been tasked as rapporteurs on certain points of the agenda, in order to remove these misunderstandings that have occurred so far. Well, anyway, I want you to, and I'm asking you to record it in the record. Path 2. So, the proposal for a law on the BiH Court of Justice – Mr Jusuf Halilagić, deputy minister, if there are questions. Customs Policy BiH – Mr Prlić Administrative Taxes both of these laws, Mr Halilagić, Law on the Institute for Accreditation of BiH – Mr Prlić. Election law, that's under 3a. Mr. Minister Svetozar Mijahlović, 4. The law on the rights of ethnic national communities will be me personally or Mr. Vladičić. Proposal for a Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, Mr Kragulj, Deputy Minister, Draft Law on Changes and Supplements on Foreign Debt, also, Mr Kragulj, Framework Agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank, that is, point 7 Mr Imamović, Deputy Minister for the Treasury, 8 and 9. Both of these agreements on the development loan, Mr Kragulj, and that would therefore be all that is in contact with the Council of Ministers, i.e. you know who will be in charge of these issues. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u488	Thank you very much. This was like a previous note. We thank Mr. Zubk and the Council of Ministers. Of course, it'll make our turn easier. We're moving on to the logs. Ad.1. Records Any objections to the minutes of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples? If not, who is it to adopt the minutes of the 3rd session? Unanimously, there's no need to go any further. It's a record of four. The seats of our home. Any objections to the four-session record? There isn't. Who's to adopt the fourth-session minutes? Do you mind? The abstentions? Mr. Spahić, I don't think he voted, he did. We missed someone. Munib's out. Thank you very much. 14's in. He doesn't mind and no abstentions. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. The Commission's report to the House of Nations on the adoption of the Bill on the Court of Justice of BiH I will propose that we discuss all five together, i.e. we will determine together all five laws, because that is how the College treated them. It means the Proposal for a Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH and the Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Accreditation of BiH. You in the material got from the College, can we continue, Mr Hadžović, we would continue the work. Thank you very much. The college, as you received the written text did not agree, did not agree on these laws and adjudicated Article 60. Rules of Procedure, we vote on these laws in the second round. You know that in this case we vote entityically and only in a way that is against these laws of the High Representative being considered by hasty procedure so far. So I invite you to vote on all these five laws in a way. First from the Federation. Who's against these laws being considered by haste? The feds are voting. It's nobody. What does business mean? From RS who is opposed to these laws being considered by a hasty procedure. 5 — We still have the same situation, i.e. These laws, no proposal for laws to be considered by haste and laws go into normal procedures, I would say, which in this case is rather illogical, but I have to say it that way, because it's so business. Thank you very much. We are going in the same way, that is, in a similar way about the draft law on sprint, which we discussed the same way last time, and we will vote, since it is also not 5 in the College in line. You got it, Tokić and I thought we should do it that way, Mr Špirić thought differently. So, we have a situation that we have. I'm calling the feds. Tokić is asking for a word, and I think I'm obliged to give the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u489	Chairman, gentlemen of the envoys and delegates, I feel the need, for the sake of agreement, to highlight the reason which has been stated that there has been no consensus on this text. Mr Špirić cited it as a reason that the adoption of the law is not in line with the BiH Constitution. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the competent authority that assesses the constitutionality of the adoption of a specific legal project, is. I've got enough papers here to present, if you need a few hours. There's a strong demand for sports associations, an organization to pass one of these laws. The Office of the High Representative, now favorite quoted in RS, is quoted by Špirić when it comes to one of the Supreme Arbitrars in terms of constitutionality and that failed connection in RS. It is also very clear, on several occasions, and last time on 11.6, in the presence of representatives of sports associations from BiH, said this is a sacred right and that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law. Insisting after all that, in the formulation, I can only be called obstruction. Thus, defacto, Mr Špirić absolutely denies the full procedure, complete institutions and process returns, I would say of old times, which unfortunately are not good for parliamentaryism. They're not good, especially in a way to deny today something that might be adopted in six months, in nine months, and in this respect I felt the need to point out that fact in front of this house. I think this is a typical obstruction, because the reason it is not in accordance with the constitution and with the aspect of the relevant organs in this home and from the aspect of the relevant organs of the interpretation of the Constitution, it is not true, it is not true, and I fear that this represents one beginning of one, one return to old politics and one obstruction for which there is no other word, but obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u490	I thank Mr. Tokić. In this case, there is no debate, I only gave the motionary my word, because it is according to the Rules of Procedure. I ask my fellow Špirić not to open the debate when there is no chance of rapsing according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Špirić. By the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u491	I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u492	I'm going to use my business powers and I'm going to warn you. I'm not gonna do it right now. I interpreted the Rules of Procedure and gave a member of the College a word. 6 Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen delegates, esteemed guests, no need for anxiety. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The same Rules of Procedure apply to me and to Mr Tokić and to all of us. So you don't need to get nervous.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u495	If the debate is over, I would ask you to read me the section of the Rules of Procedure where it says so.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u496	Here's a colleague of Špirić's writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u497	Read me the Chairman, I beg you, I will not violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u498	It would be nice to be a member of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u499	It would be nice if you didn't call outside the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u500	You're speaking outside the Rules of Procedure. Idati take a break and we'll interpret the Rules of Procedure if you continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u501	Nikola Špirić is one of the few who respectfully looks at what the international community is doing and all of its offices with neither a dose of disrespect nor a dose of cheerleading. I have one rational attitude towards the international community, as well as the international community, I suppose has a rational attitude towards my behaviour. So there's no reason for anyone to place me neither as friends nor as less valuable people when it comes to the international community. That is, therefore, my personal attitude towards what the international community does in BiH. So I appreciate it and respect it. Mr. Tokić calls for the interest of sports associations which I absolutely do not dispute. Interest is an athlete in BiH to settle the area of sports, the way they think it's good. I see no reason why Sejfudin Tokić prefers and appreciates sports in BiH than Nikola Špirić or any delegate, but we must give the right to have these people tell you. They say 7 we want a deal. Which is why we, stubborn or hard-core insistence on the legal project, are preventing sports associations from agreeing. Also, there is a letter from the RS Sports Ministry received by Mr Tokić in the meantime and does not want to read it. I must tell you, the moment the entities transfer their powers according to the Constitution to the common bodies, I will support those projects, but please I have sworn to respect the BiH Constitution and beyond that there is no one who can drive me, in that sense. So I'm not disrespecting that. I think it's good that sport associations talk and define their relationships and we help them when they agree. A bright example is the Basketball Federation of BiH. Since they do not have the existing law, which we are offering, do not mind that, within their alliance, they agree and many other sports alliances will define it and trust me that the way Sejfudin Tokić proposes, gives the strongest contribution, that something is unfortunately not regulated in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u502	I thank Mr. Špirić. I invite you to vote. I call on Federation representatives to vote against the law on sports being considered by articles? - Nobody. I call on delegates from the RS to plead, who is it that the law on sports is considered by articles? Who's against it? It's unusual, so I'm wrong. - Four against. In this case, I must conclude that this legal project has been rejected. We're going to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. Proposal for election laws – first reading (a) Proposer of the Council of Ministers b) Envoy – Mr Nikola Špirić You have received both proposals. The Constitutional Commission has considered both and I call on the President of the Constitutional Commission, although we have received written text to give us a brief explanation of the position of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u503	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the BiH Council of Ministers' Parliament, Mr. Nikola Špiriću. On the basis of Articles 24.1. and 79.1. The Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held at its 5th session, held on 7.6.2001, in the below until yesterday, discussed the leniency of the text of the laws with the Constitution of BiH and submitted to the House of Peoples the following report. About that, I'd like to draw attention specifically if we had concluded this way. I'm undermining that it's not 7.1. It's 7.9.2. First, I would like to address you gentlemen from the Council of Ministers and representatives of the House of Nations to inform you that it has been discussed and how the Constitutional and Legal Commission has responded to your draft electoral law. I repeat, from 7th to 12th, we had an uninterrupted session. We discussed the urgent procedure of the draft electoral law and our report is next. 8 The Council of Ministers delivered the draft law to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 9 May 2001 – BiH's electoral law for adoption. At its 4th session, the Constitutional First Commission established unanimously that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the law and that the text of the law was passed by an authorised legislator. At the 5th session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples, the Commission members held a debate on the principles of the proposed law and concluded that they could move to a statement on the proposed amendments, and the Commission adopted the following amendments to the text of the Electoral Law, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. The amendment I proposes by Momčilo Novaković and Dragutin Rodić in the position of Article 1.19 of the words “three out of five” are replaced by “two or four”. In view of the need to include the chairman as the fifth, or third, respectively. Amendment II to the Proposer Momčilo Novaković and Dragutin Rodić, Article 5.8, is amended and reads: “Before the start of the vote, the electoral committee in the composition, as provided for in Article 5.5 of this Act, will be in the presence of accredited observers: 1. Expose empty ballot boxes and seal them 2. Count and enter appropriate forms, total number of voters or polling stations based on copies from the central polling post-print. 3. Count and enter the corresponding forms, the total number of all ballots, which have been accepted for that polling post’. Amendment III of Proposer Munib Jusufović, Article 11.1., 11.2. are amended and read as follows: “Article 11.1. Delegates from the Federation of BiH to the House of Peoples of the Prlamentary Assembly of BiH elect delegates from the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH from the Bosnian peoples, Croatian peoples and Serbian peoples. Delegates from the RS for the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are elected by MPs from the House of the National Assembly and from the order of the Serb people, the Bosniak people, the Croatian people. Delegates from Brcko District, elects the Brcko Assembly. Article 11.2. In the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, one representative of the constituent peoples is elected from each entity by two representatives of each constituent people and from Brcko District. A solution from these amendments is necessary in a consistent manner with the leftover members of the law. Amendment IV
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u504	Mr. Spahić, may I ask?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u505	You can't do business. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u506	I can, because I'm asking you nicely not to sharpen the Rules of Procedure. We're in the first reading and we're just going to vote out whether or not we're going to do it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u507	I want to read the report, it's one page, and you won't lose anything in time, and about what kind of reading we're in, that's what I'm gonna say in the end. Amendment IV Proposer Niko Sušac, the alternative to Chapter A of Article 11.1. to Article 11.5, is shaved. Amendment V Proposer Šefik Džaferović, Momčilo Novaković and Dragutin Rodić, article 11.10, adds a new position on 2nd, which reads: "The political party, coalition, list of independent candidates and independent candidates cannot participate in the allocation of mandate unless they bear more than 3% of the total number of valid votes in the constituency. Amendment VI – Proposer Munib Jusufović, Article 1.9. The electoral law also changes: “Apart from the authorities in which the constitution regulates the parity of constitutional peoples, in legislative bodies other than representative homes, which are elected directly by voters who are elected in executive bodies and other authorities at all levels, members of the constituent peoples and members of the others must be represented, relatively national population structure in the area of keg, according to the 1991 census. The basis for studying proportionate national representation in authorities according to the 1991 census cannot be changed before the end of 2011. The current member of 1.9 becomes a member of 1.10, and the other members will be numbered by a further order. Amendment VI – Proposer Jerko Ivanković amandman ii in Article 2.12.6. “If the municipal council or the assembly of the municipality does not appoint members or president of the municipal electoral commission, according to Articles 2.12.5 and 6 of this law, the electoral commission of BiH may appoint members or president of the electoral municipal commission. amandman vi – Proposer Momčilo Novaković in the position of Article 1.12 of the words “to” are replaced by the words “or”. At the end of paragraph 4. the words of Article 2.1 of this Act shall be deleted and the words of Article 2.2 of this Act shall be changed, in place of the point, and the words shall be added that they shall not interfere with Article 3.2 of this Act. Item 7 is deleted. The amendment – Dragutin Rodić, in Article 2.18. to delete words at the first meeting, is decided by the majority vote at the second meeting, instead to enter the text "in three attempts a decision shall be taken by the competent court". Amendment IX – Proposer Jerko Ivanković, in Article 2.19(1). The last sentence is changed and it reads: “If the municipal election committee does not appoint members 10 or presidents of the electoral committee and their deputies, in accordance with this article or if, in their opinion, the election commission of BiH, members and their deputies do not carry out their duties in quality, the Electoral Commission will appoint other members or presidents of the electoral board as well as their deputies. Amendment X – Proposer Jerko Ivanković, in Chapter II of the BiH Election Law, in Article 2.5 of Article 4 of the first sentence, changes and reads: “In accordance with his procedure, the Parliamentary House of BiH, appoints members of the Electoral Commission from the list of candidates, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH gives its consent to the BiH Election Commission. In the 5th Article's position, the second sentence is amended and it reads: “The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in this case appoints a new member from the same constitutional people, including ostali, from which he was a previous member, and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, gives consent to the appointment. Article 2.8 at the end of the text is deleted and a point is placed, adding a new text: “In agreement with the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Amendment XI – Proposer Šefik Džaferović and Munim Jusufović, in Article 29 of Item 2, adds a new position to the 3rd, which reads: “A person who has registered residence in another municipality from the previous position, who uses the property of refugees and displaced persons can register for elections only for the municipality in which he has residence according to the last census in BiH. The current members 3.4.5.6. and 7. become members of 4.5.6.7 and 8. and eventually are left out when this amendment report is prepared, which is also accepted, Proposer Munib Jusufović, members 8.1 and 8.2. are amended and said: "Every citizen of BiH, who has the right to vote under Article 1.4 of this law, can be elected as a member of the BiH Presidency without discrimination. BiH presidency members are choosing voters registered to vote in BiH. The voter can vote for one candidate for the BiH presidency. The elected members of the presidency are three candidates who received the highest number of votes, with each member of the presidency being of the order of another people. So much for the official report prepared on the basis of the Commission's work from 7 to 12.6.2001. As far as working is concerned, of course the House of Nations will decide how it will work until the 21st century. I just want to warn the next one. First, the Constitutional and First Commission, under the urgent procedure of the amendment that arrived at the Constitutional and Legal Commission session by 2.30 p.m. on the basis of a letter sent by the chairman of the House of Peoples, Ilija Šimić, discussed the amendments until then. The amendments that have been accepted are clearly presented here. Amendments not accepted on the Constitutional-First Commission may be re-activated 48 hours by the second reading, as well as new amendments that will eventually be formulated in form to ensure that we can rationally decide in the second reading. As for today's work, we're in the so-called The first reads in the Rules of Procedure. This implies that today the House of Nations has the opportunity to conduct a general debate, with 11 which, of course, the bill should be rejected or accepted in the first reading, in order to create assumptions that the Constitutional-First Commission in the period from 14 June to 48 hours before, means there until the 18th latest can conclude what it is about and prepare you a report concerning the amendment to this electoral law. Since we are only having a debate on the law, at the moment that the Council of Ministers has proposed, I would therefore like to inform you that this is the result of our work, and when it comes to Mr. Nikola Špirić's proposal, I will return to you again in one of the two sentences concerning this electoral law, and if you think I can tell you right away, so that would be easier. We cannot hold a debate on both laws, but here is the subject under a) and b) on the basis of Articles 2.4.1 and 7.9.2. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held at its 5th session in 7.6.2001 and 12.6.2001, discussed the urgent procedure of the BiH Election Law proposal and submitted the report to you. The proposal for this law, proposed by this election law, is proposed by Mr Nikola Špirić. Our report reads: The delegation to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Proposal for an Election Law of BiH for adoption of the House of Peoples. At its 4th session, the Constitutional and Legal Commission established unanimously that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the law and that the text of the law was passed by an authorised legislator. At the 5th session of the Constitutional and First Commission on 12.6.2001, the members of the Commission held a debate on the principles of the proposed law in the basic legislative procedure and concluded that no amendments had been tabled on the text of the proposed law and that the proposal for legislation was referred to in the follow-up procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the first reading. Since he has passed all the stages that should have been passed to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and this bill can today be discussed in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u508	Thank you, Mr. Spahić. All the things you said in the amendment, we have to forget that you were saying, because you're going to have to do it again today when we discuss this law in a second reading. We're not supposed to rush the procedure. Article 90 of our Rules of Procedure says so, and I thank you again. I now invite you to discuss the Election Law, and if you agree, I will say about the electoral laws of both proposed texts on the principles of this law, so that we decide whether we will move forward to the debate on articles. Here you go. Who's calling? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u509	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates to the House of Peoples, respected ministers, dear guests. I will not talk today about the importance of this law, because in the past few days, and also in a procedure that lasts more than three years, we are all well enough together to realize how important it is to adopt a law like this. 12 But what I think of such a law must be, above all, the political compromise of all the peoples who live in the bih in order to come to those solutions that will enable the law to be applied and to eventually come to those legal solutions that will be ours and where, for the first time, the electoral process would be conducted according to our laws. However, what I want to stress in particular today is that we need to have a general debate here, because it's about first reading and I think as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and all that we've done so far, I have to say that it's been a good working atmosphere at these meetings, but I have to point out a few things and maybe to encourage here today and a debate, which may be coming out of the context that we need to discuss. I must say, it must not happen that a serious commission such as the Constitutional and Legal Commission, a committee representing all the nations, which numbers six members is when it comes to these laws on the edge of the quorum. I particularly underline that, because there are, and Mr. Chairman of these committees, he did not say that we had come up with certain proposals and that we had adopted whether something was constitutional or whether it was something, and how we were installing amendments that would enter into this text in the second reading. What I particularly want to say is that decisions were made in principle with two votes in favour – with one vote against and one abstention. It's not a political compromise. This is something else and therefore this is the result and what we have received today as a report from the Commission. I would especially like to stress that two of these amendments are directly contrary to the BiH Constitution at this time, because such solutions are not in the BiH Constitution and I think our task should be to cover those solutions that will be applicable. What's controversial at this point, I think we have a way to get past certain things and I think the proposal for a ministerial council in that direction had more consideration for the compromise than we found on it. I would also ask the Secretary of the Constitutional and First Commission to clarify the business provision on the vote, on the vote of abstention, and I must stress that at that moment, as a member of the Commission, I did not have an OHR interpretation. Today, when I received it, as it is done, with all respect and respect, however, the procedure refers to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. So I think we deserve to make the right decisions if we have the right interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u510	Thank you. I understand that you are not questioning the constitutional legal basis of this law, which is the most important, and will be the Constitutional Commission for a second reading and you will be able to clarify everything. Mr. Tokić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u511	Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, I think the election law in this room has already been spent hours and hours in debates and I find it very important that we do not make a mistake in the next 7-8 days in the procedure of considering this law. I think the biggest mistake would be not passing the law. No. 13 I believe that the political differences that have been very clear here over the past few years have come out in a transparent debate on this key BiH law can be relativised or can be removed from the political scene in these seven days. But I believe that with one approach, a responsible approach can come to a solution that will allow competent committees in the Council of Europe to make a positive decision on BiH's involvement in the Council of Europe. What are these principles? I think the first and the basic principle should be the absolute priority of passing the law, therefore, the absolute priority of adopting the law. The second principle, I think, that basically the text of the law and the aspect of the procedure, should enter only what is agreed, which is the expression of the compromise, what is not disputed between the majority of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's two homes. Thirdly, all that there is no agreement, from the aspect of the procedure, from the aspect of a series of issues that appear in numerous, already present amendments and those that will arise, because after this first reading, we are just opening up the possibility of submitting amendments to define the transitional provisions as a way, until a new procedure is agreed, the existing rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission in 2000, the official list of Janso designated, namely for the selection of the people, the House of the Federation, apply the election rules and regulations of the Interim Commission of 1998. I think that's the way to compromise. I think that this can bring together all the things that different political statements represent today. In that context, it is likely that the amendments will appear on my behalf and on behalf of my party. The amendments we want as a solution, but we are prepared to build a compromise on these principles. There is no reason for anyone to insist on introducing the basic text into what we cannot agree on. I would have supported, therefore, the Electoral Law. Personally, I don't think it's a good thing, that besides the Electoral Law, which was submitted by the Council of Ministers with alternatives, there are two other drafts of the electoral law, that this in a certain way complies with the formal procedure, but I assume that someone, whether, by doing so, wanted to show willingness to offer other solutions, or to give up those solutions at a certain stage. The Social Democratic Party, the political group that I belong to here, has offered one full law. We in this procedure didn't want to go after a complete law, aware of all the risks and all the dangers that the solutions we are proposing there could not be agreed upon. Especially for the end, at the level of principle, I would point out the dilemma, whether in the decisions of the Election Law, and how much the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH need to be affirmed and how much we can go beyond what the international conventions on human first and freedoms advocate. If there is political will, on the crown issue, which is the issue of election of members of the presidency, I think there is a procedure that can reconcile two important political goals. One political goal is that members of the Bureau who are elected should be chosen primarily from members of their people and that at the same time, in the procedure, ensure that the election of these members of the Bureau can also be influenced by members of other peoples. I think it's a compromise that we need, because we've seen very well, that no matter where we are an entity or what nation we belong to, our destiny depends equally on the work of every member of the presidency. In this context, we could think, at least at the level of the principle of the ability to qualify candidates, i.e. obtaining an opinion of the vote in which all citizens who have a lot of voting rights would express their relationship with all 14 proposed candidates and then candidates who are on the general declaration of citizens would receive the highest number of votes, therefore, by two qualified candidates from each nation, that, in a formal, constitutional election, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution in the entity, they would be elected by the majority in that entity, or by members of their people. I think that we can strengthen the responsibility of the BiH institution and the Presidency to give it the dimension it receives, but with these additions to the Presidency which had never been on election boards, which is to act as a single team, which, at the same time, takes care of the interests of members of all the peoples and both Bosnian-Herzegovic entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u512	Thank you, Mr. Tokić, Mr. Niko Sušac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u513	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers, fellow envoys, esteemed guests, today we are considering a draft of one of the key in BiH, which will significantly identify future relations in this country, primarily in the political sphere. I don't think it's necessary to point to the political weight of this regulation, we are all aware of that, and I just want to point out that certain segments of these regulations have been systematised in the provisional elections, the electoral rules, were the reason for tightening the political situation in the Federation of BiH, and also in the state as a whole, which, of course, are current today. The fact itself sufficiently points to the seriousness of the problem and necessarily requires full engagement of all of us, in order to best discuss and through such a debate to reach the most optimal solutions, which will reconcile the interests of all political parties, and above all ensure the equality of all constitutional peoples in the electoral procedure. Starting with this need, we must clearly say and keep in mind that the electoral law we work in the BH democratic rule, which we all seek and which we all want to build a state with two entities, based on the BiH Constitution and entity constitutions, as a framework for all other normative activities and in the area of elections. So I'm going from the state as such, with all of her attributes that she may not have affirmed at the moment to make all of our inconsistencies and insincere plantings. What am I stressing this for? Because I feel that in certain political circles, there is still a question of whether to accept BiH as a reality and as its own state or to continue with destructive policy, waiting for a more favourable time for its dispersion and division in the various imagined arches or creation of BiH, in which there will be no equality between all its constituent peoples, for example. unitary BiH. The debate on the electoral law is an ideal basis for exhausting one or the other, showing one or the other aspirations, an ideal opportunity for destruction and for cooling games in imposing their political option and pushing through their foggy solutions for a possible political structure of the state. Therefore, I appeal to full openness and honesty at this time. Basically, I don't have any dilemmas and I'm in the process of discussing this issue, and I'm going in, considering primarily a few of the following mathematically speaking axiomas. The defiance of BiH states, with the Dayton political arrangement, constitutionality and equality of all three peoples in BiH, throughout BiH's territory and respect for full constitutionality and legality in the work of all authorities in the country. That is the approach I have in considering the draft of this election law 15, and my amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which I have forwarded to this House, are also motivated. In that context, moving within the abovementioned camels of the fundamentals of my thinking, I ask a question to all of us. What kind of electoral law do we want? Is such a law that will be only a minimum of our agreement to meet the requirements of the international accession community in the Council of Europe or we want a law that will serve us and with which we will regulate such relations on the basis of existing constitutional principles that will ensure conditions for fair and fair elections in the next period. We must have a clear attitude here. If we aim to just pass a law, which will serve us as a means of admission to the Council of Europe, I do not support such an approach, and I consider it a waste of time and a cause for a senseless tightening of the political situation, first of all, in relation to political parties and then wider among citizens, i.e. the peoples. If we have another approach, then I strongly advocate full compliance with the constitutionality and procedure of preparing and adopting the electoral law and do not support any conscious gap in the law, motivated by the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people. I stand up for it, and I will stand for it, no matter how anyone understands my efforts to open a process today that will result in the adoption of a complete, i.e. an applicable electoral law, based on existing constitutional principles and solutions, counting as if the elections would be tomorrow. The worst solution will be if we adopt an electoral law, which will create confusion and subjectivity in its interpretation, which will certainly happen if we adopt the electoral law with gaps. The proposed electoral law does not predict how to solve the problem of gaps. In fact, the proposed laws don't apply in practice, formally-lawly I could only react to the amendment, which I did. My view is that gaps in the electoral law must be filled in an appropriate and constitutional manner, which is a matter of legal experts and each... of political parties. Mr Tokić, Kolika Tokić, said something about it, so I wouldn't spend any more words on it. The essence of my amendments, I'll put it short. When it comes to the Bureau's election that the election of members of the Bureau is not done by a preferential vote, as it is more difficult to understand for an average voter, which would also negatively reflect the expression of the true will of a large number of voters, the electoral body. This complicated and more difficult to understand voting system for more voters would make them even more prone to pressures and "instructions of political parties". Furthermore, my amendments include the addition of Chapters IX and Chapter X and Chapter X of the President of the Federation, or RS. 3. To complete Chapter XII, i.e. I would like to say a few sentences on the election of envoys in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH. I want to make it perfectly clear and plain. The election of envoys to the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH was not good in the 2000 elections. Did the international 16 community adopt the wrong rules for elections for the House of Peoples – yes. The international community has made the wrong rules. The election of envoys to the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH must be in agreement with the current Federation of BiH constitution. Quite accurate. The cantonal parliaments choose from their ranks the envoys: Croatian envoys are elected exclusively by Hrvat. Bosniaks are elected exclusively by Bošnjak and others by MPs from the ranks of the others. Also, representatives of the BiH House of Peoples must be elected on some lists. In short, the election of envoys to the homes of the people should be by the rules applicable in the 1998 elections and should be introduced into the electoral law, to the appropriate place and very precise. I expect that the gaps in the electoral law will be filled in, with full respect for constitutional principles. I propose that, in the context of the electoral law, we start exclusively from the existing constitutional principles. We certainly have in mind the expected changes to the entity constitutions, in line with the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people. The moment the entity constitutions are brought into line with the BiH Constitution, the procedure for amending and supplementing the electoral law should be opened. I sincerely hope that the applicable electoral law will be passed by June 22nd. and thus obtain the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe. These amendments of mine, principled principles, don't matter like I formally had to let them fill in the basic text. There is no problem with them being in transitional provisions, but they must certainly be contained in the electoral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u514	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, fellow delegates, is the undeniable need for the adoption of the electoral law and should not be mentioned here. The adoption of the electoral law depends in principle on the created environment on the necessity of passing laws on the one hand and on the political readiness for compromise on the other. As for the created environment on the necessity of the adoption of the law, it seems to me sufficiently that it is expressed, thanks to one part of the international community and another part of the maturing of our consciousness, that this law is immediately behind the Constitution, the most important act that regulates certain relations in a community. As for the political willingness to compromise, I must say that it does not include solutions that are against the Constitution. So there is no political readiness that gives anyone the right to violate the existing constitution, nor is there a possibility that the constitution can be changed by law. In that sense, I resent the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I will try not to enter into this amendment, therefore, to speak only of the general part, which is my basic task, which is not my primary task, or that it has succumbed to what it cannot succumb to, which is what I have said to create some political pressure without the basis of the Constitution. I will ask that the Constitutional and Legal Commission resign, after this report at the second reading, not today, but during the second reading, since 17 were wrong about the Constitution and since their work has not been done and as Mr Spahić said: “This is our result of the work”, I can say that they do not have some result of the work and that the result of the work they have submitted does not lead to compromise. We all want this law, and we need to show the will to adopt it. The will is not exclusive, and especially, it cannot be in the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is why I also support Mr. Tokić's proposal that such solutions cannot be made, that we must bring those solutions where we agree, and that where we do not agree, we will see what we will do with them. Whether it's a variant with transitional and final provisions or another, I'm not going into it right now, I'm not a lawyer, but in any case, it shouldn't, such a solution should not be passed by revote in the way that it was done, so before it's very controversial, whether it's true and whether it's done, given the interpretation of the provisions on what's with the abstentions and whether they even fall into the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u515	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u516	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegations, distinguished guests, I consider the adoption of the BiH election law to be a priority, and I believe that the law needs to be adopted as soon as possible, because this is the basic condition for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe and we all agree. Parts of the law concerning the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the constitutionality and equality of the people throughout BiH need to be adopted before the appropriate changes to the entity's constitutions, as the electoral law cannot be passed with gaps. The application of the OSCE's Interim Election Rules is also not a better solution, as they also come from the provisions of the entity's constitution, which have been declared unconstitutional and not valid by the Constitutional Court, which is finally binding. The draft electoral law is the first document, which at first defines the position and equality of the citizens of BiH, regardless of which nations, religions, political beliefs, sex, entity membership or any membership. For this reason, I insist, on the integrity of the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and Freedoms, which is guaranteed that, I quote: “Everyone has the same right to access public services in their country, everyone has the right to participate in the management of their country directly or through the freely elected representatives”. What am I reading this for? Therefore, I will explain later, there are still documents I call upon, because there is a stronger group here, probably also in the House of Representatives, political options, which, when mentioned in BiH, is immediately strained and called upon to Dejton, which frankly, lawyers know what the Dayton Agreement is, very well, but every representative of this option is skillfully using it when it comes to obstruction and here exactly who is too much in love with Dayton can be seen, because he calls him when he is obstructing something that needs to be brought. Mđutim, also, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, the international civil and political rights treaty, which, under the provisions of the BiH Constitution, have priority over domestic law and are above any law of the country. So it's a legal foothold. Also, the Dayton Agreement obliges BiH to respect the documents of the Second Conference on Human Dimension, the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe in Copenhagen in 1990. Particularly binding 18 specifics which we are obliged to ensure, I quote: "That the will of the people serves as the basis of the authority of the participating government to guarantee universal equal voting rights for all adult citizens and to respect the right of a person or group to establish in full freedom their own party or other political organisations and provide such political parties and organisations with the necessary legal guarantees, in order to allow them to compete, based on equal treatment before the law and authorities." Read about these international conventions and documents that oblige BiH, and it is a general rule that international conventions, in particular what is mandatory and where it stands in the Dayton Agreement, have stronger legal power than the law. Also, by electoral law or those amendments that I have submitted, I want to correct the existing segregation and discrimination as well as the situation that has resulted in a drastic violation of human rights in BiH which are little where the world is known. We can do that by applying the norm we believe to be civilized. We will pass the law, but not one that will be against the BiH Constitution, you see, and I call upon it, only in a different context of those who do not want...nothing that more than 30% of BiH citizens can never think of being elected to the BiH presidency or to any home of the people where national interests are represented. The fact that entities did not implement the Constitutional Court decision, they were obliged to do so, even the deadlines were set, cannot limit the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from adopting provisions in the law, which are in accordance with that decision and which meet international human rights standards guaranteed by the BiH Constitution. These are some general points of view. Let me just say it for a second. I certainly, immediately say, do not belong to the order of people who think as Mr. Tokić said earlier, and as Mr. Novaković said, it is possible that there will be others, if what Mr. Tokic says, and it seems to me well that here only in the provisions can enter what we agree, there is some rotten compromise, based on such compromises, this only country that we have is being destroyed, it is being torn apart, it is not able to breathe, it is working, because there are very strong and possible forces that are blocking all the time and for which one of these forces clearly and loudly not to cast out onto the surface and then to build on such principles and basics a step at a time. But we hide these people all the time, hide those options. Someone is doing it for their own political reasons in order to enlist someone and I remember a sentence very well, it seems to me yesterday who was given a joint plenary session by a lady from the Council of Europe, who says, on occasion, such an opinion that this election law is, some consider an ultimatum, and some of it a chance. To tell you the truth, I feel better about it as an ultimatum, but it cannot be attributed to the international community, because here we are, and we are not critical enough political will to have anything to do with progress in this BiH country, and when it comes to the BiH state to do so, because there are always forces that do so in a certain way. I have to express my real concerns, but not only with this law and these amendments and with what is done, but with my participation as a promoter on the Constitutional Commission, I must say that I am deeply disappointed with some concepts and principles, and I am not optimistic at all that this country will quickly breathe. I'd understand some things that we're saying today, that they happened right after the bloody events and after the war. My people have been through six years, and if we can't do it today, just to take a step out of this project called ethnic engineering, but simply by some solutions we're trying to strictly concreteize -- cement ethnicity and genocide, then 19 I really don't know how we're going to give the young BiH, and it's not weird that it's 60 and something wants to leave this country, because I have to tell you, if that country is what some people want here, then I belong to that 60 and something percentage. But I hope that the forces and I will strongly advocate it, so I'm standing in line for those who are going to fight these obstructions, persistently to some solution that will mean change.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u517	Thank you very much, Mr. Jusufović. Mr. Dragutin Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u518	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues, I would like first to address the delegates, because it is before us a decision and it is up to us to take the most important legal act after the Constitution to show the world that BiH is ready to rope into this large family in which the first family that we too have to accept is called Europe or the European Union. To pass the law, we need to find a compromise and adopt it in an entirely identical text by both homes. I'd be happy if we did it at the plenary session. Unfortunately, my initiative to reach such a session has not come to an understanding, and if there is no adoption of the law, which I would not like to do, it will show who it has declared to be for BiH and everything it has done to keep BiH where it is, and not where it wants to be, I believe the largest number of its citizens. I am also grateful to the international community that for the first time it does not impose this law on us, but rather leaves representatives of the people to show how mature they are to bear the responsibility, which the people have entrusted them with and to resolve our own destiny. And that's why I can't accept that we're talking about the need for compromise here, and then some words and some arguments come out, which need a lot more time to go through, and a lot of facts to compare, check and then talk about big words like genocide and not speak other words. We all have a mouthful of human rights and freedoms, various declarations, but it seems that we understand these rights and freedoms in our own way, so when it comes to me, then those rights are a little greater than for the other one, and the rights can either be equal for everyone or not. I would warn you, in Republika Srpska, ten years live citizens who have no right to vote, and we are talking about equal rights. These are people who have lost their country because they are currently refugees in RS. We have foreign citizens who have received BiH citizenship and they have the right to vote and these people do not and we have lived together in one country, so now BiH has become a homeland for someone from Asia, and it cannot be a country for someone who has lived in the common state for 70 years. If we want to talk about these things, then they have to be the same for everyone, so I can go back to that necessary compromise. The decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court have been mentioned. These decisions are in the implementation phase and if I were lucky that they were not made in the way they were made, but they were made and they are binding, but also as a member of a political option, which has always respected laws, rules, then I am in order to respect the current Constitution and to apply it until it is resolved differently. When resolved differently, we must automatically do whatever comes from the Constitution and what is lower, as I say, the rank must be consistent with the Constitution. So I think the compromise solution that has been reached in 20 Constitutional and Legal Commissions of the House of Representatives or of the Representatives, is what should be supported and what may be at this time this compromise that we all need and that those solutions, which are not possible then, are the rules of the Interim Election Commission, because don't tell me, for God's sake, that when she wrote those rules, didn't care about the UN Charter of Human Rights and the declarations brought by other international institutions, and therefore once again my request that we delegates today do everything to come to a compromise, to adopt this law and join this wolf family, to enter that house, and we can only enter that house, if we accept that we respect the first majority there, which in that house lives, and once again I would be happy if it could be at the plenary session, that we have a joint plenary session of both at which we will adopt the same text in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u519	Thank you, Mr. Ilić. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u520	Dear Chairman, distinguished delegates, ministers, distinguished guests, I will try to make my contribution to what many have spoken about, and this is a compromise rather than offering a way to reach a compromise. I think that those who come to the election law with written speeches will only be able to tell their party chief that they have read that speech and that the party chief will be satisfied and that unfortunately BiH will continue to be without the electoral law, because in these written texts I have not heard much compromise to come to the election law. It is also not good to say that there should be some political options, and even people who think differently, that those who think well should stay and edit BiH in their sights and in their arches. It doesn't make much sense with democracy and believe in such BiH would not be nice to live even for those who advocate such a concept as it is not good in 2001 to talk about ethnic engineering and to participate in '92, '93, '94, '95. and '96. in that same engineering. It's not fair, it's not moral, and it won't impress anyone in BiH. We should all stand in front of the mirror and see ourselves in '92, '93, '94, '95, '96. So we can tell that story in 2001. But on the soul of those who think it's five years enough to get rid of what they belonged to in '92-'95. Years. I've had that opinion today, of course, and of course we don't have to think about it in college either, so we don't have to think about everything at the House of Representatives. I'm a man who respects the decisions made most of the time in this house. I think that, given the structure of the two-home BiH Parliament, it would be quite logical when we have legal projects offered by the Council of Ministers Presidency, the state authorities to have the first and second homes. If the first House of Representatives is the Council of Representatives to discuss the electoral law of our Council of Ministers, then it was logical to wait for them to adopt this legislative project, because according to our regulation, a legal project is valid which is adopted in the same reading in both homes. I'm afraid we've brought up the same legal project as if it were different two parliaments, let's say parliament in Britain and France. If we had done so or if by any chance we wanted to follow that logic, then it would have been logical that the Representative's Council ended on Friday or Tuesday with an electoral law and informed us and said that we had passed the electoral law in that version and that, in our debate, since our Council of Ministers offers it, we only respond if the vital national interest is injured. In that case, believe me, we'd get to the electoral code and I think 21 is exactly the line of compromise. We have, for example, the election law of the Council of Ministers and the Constitutional-First Commission of the Representative Council has come up with a common text. I am ready today to offer that common text, which is agreed on by all the political options that make up Parliament's lower house of the BiH Parliament and we are, on occasion, the size of these same political structures, to say that in the interest of our country, we will consider this identical text and adopt it as an electoral law and we are happy with the state to which we belong and the community of the European Union, the one who wants BiH to join and its membership. Now they seem to be amendments that basically mean that there's a little space being created, unfortunately, to get to the permanent electoral law. It's not good to argue with the Constitutional Court's decisions, like it's not good to settle with the Constitution at all. The Constitution is the highest act that we delegates must adhere to, regardless of what some may be dissatisfied with constitutional solutions, but the procedure for amending the Constitution is also clear and no one disputes the legitimate initiative to amend the Constitution where people think that this change should take place. It is my suggestion that we conduct a framework debate today, therefore, that we do not stop it now, because it would be illogical and that until the second reading of this law in close co-operation two colleges of the Representative Council and the House of Peoples try to get out of a kid who is being imposed, waiting for constitutional changes. You don't think we're going to pass an election law, which we won't change for the next hundred years, and every day we launch initiatives to amend the Constitution. I suppose it is logical to launch an initiative to bring the BiH Constitution into line if the Constitution changes. What I do not like, and I have to say it publicly, is that, unfortunately, there are political options that look forward to when representatives of the international community under quotes are dragging Srbin into the ears or when they make decisions that Srbin care about, and then create a show in the soul of those people who, I say, are malignant or who would little to play with the international community, so it is when they speak to the Federation of BiH, it is the right international community and when the international community makes a decision and puts itself in the position of a neutral observer and active participant in BiH, then it irritates a lot of people, and they say, you can think that the representatives of the authorities in RS agree with OHR and High Representative's decisions. It is as if OHR and the High Representative are part of the Federation government and not one measuring international institution at BiH level. That's not a good thing to believe. I don't belong to those people who want to assess the work of the international community, but here's a test for all of us. We have two electoral laws. One offers OHR plus OSCE, the other offers OSCE plus domestic experts and the third modified offers our Council of Ministers. By the same procedure, without a dot and a score, concerned about the fate of our country, here we will not tolerate any amendments, we will all withdraw the maximum demands and adopt the electoral law. I will make a concrete contribution to my story in the second reading. I ask you to sit down who should sit down with the leadership of political parties and perhaps carry out another consultation to get as many amendments as possible and make a concrete contribution to adopt a permanent electoral law. I'm afraid I'm speaking to you publicly, too, because the Council of Representatives session is scheduled for the 20th of our 21st. We're having two separate discussions. If we enter the post-harmonisation phase, it is a sign that we will not reach the electoral law. So I'd like to pray that we don't go into that phase, that we do this alignment before and that, therefore, 22nd, we say that we have reached a permanent electoral law. There isn't, and if the electoral law I'm proposing has nothing to do with the election of the presidency, there's no need. Those who are legalists and who stand behind the Constitution of their country, there is no need where the Constitution is clear to remain empty unless someone expects BiH to be possible after five years of civil war, after five years of redecorating it as an individual or one political option sees it. Believe me, this gymnastics that many people try 22 costs the most to the citizens of BiH, a poor person who is not in factories today, and who expects us to create a better economic and political future for them. All of them, all of those options that do not see BiH as a state, are not on track as well as those that do not see its structure, its entities in line with its own constitution. In the conflict, the two currents are the most affected by BiH as a state. That's why I'm asking you one more time to let us try within two colleges. You see, tomorrow we had a plenary session, related to the Global Framework for Economic Strategy in BiH, one debate, one announcement of some future better times, wasn't it logical, and here I'm asking you, if we had a plenary session, related to a permanent electoral law, where we would have reached at least a unique starting legal relationship. If we had a plenary session, the basis of our debate would be the election law of the Council of Ministers. If we had a plenary session, that would be our debate and we'd be having a debate towards the goal. This way, in separate sessions, we have four versions of legal projects. That's why I thought the plenary session was a way to get to the permanent electoral law, perhaps in the first question. Since that didn't come up, and here we are having separate discussions, but I think these days should, right now, be dedicated to meeting and giving up demands that are not in line with the Constitution and with the maximumist demands. I'm willing to make a contribution to that trip, and I expect it from the other delegates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u521	We thank Mr. Špirić. Munib Jusufović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u522	First he blames the quote. I'm surprised by Mr Špirić, who knows very well, knows in advance what he's going to say. It's true, he's going to tell a few more stories to cover his tracks. You see, the false allegation is that Mr. Špirić skillfully inserts his political here, so I say formulation, civil war. Mr Špirić, as a serious man, read the UN tribunal's verdicts, so you will already in some very clear and precise statement that it is an aggression, so the false assumption is that it is not a civil war but an aggression. On the other side of the replica. You see, Mr. Špirić says, those who read the material, they're just so they can probably pass on the chief's report, if I get it right. I'm one of those who's read now, but I don't usually have a habit of reading, although I appreciate those who do. That's what I did to Mr Špirić most for your sake here, because I have called on at least one ten documents of international conventions, etc., to convince you with such strong, credible acts and documents, because I consider you the greatest inhibitor of obstruction in this House, you right now. On the other hand, Bosnia is poor, which will be the hostage of the politics and obstructions of Mr Špirić and on the other hand, but seems to have changed a little bit Mr Banjac. However, I said it publicly on TV, on OBN, where you were asked something, it is different to be Mr. Banjac, I apologize for using the name, which has a powerful and strong party behind it, and it is different to be, I have at least a report, I have a boss and I am proud of the party to whom I belong, stranka of BiH, but I don't know who you will be, because you never know who the party is. No journalist in you knows what your party is called, because every time you turn yourself in to the SDS, or now you're turning yourself in to Ivanić PDP and sir when it comes to ethnic cleansing, when you've already held a referendum on us, let me remind you, you may have forgotten that 23 of you belonged to that option, sir, where half of your society is already in The Hague. Your Špirić, who were with you or on the Hague list. So don't give us a lecture. You know who these comrades are from those headquarters of yours, etc. And about the ethnic cleansing so much, because it seems to me you could do a doctorate but from a practical point of view.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u523	Mr. Špirić's counter-replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u524	Ladies and gentlemen, you see when people call for the wrong quote, and they don't say where it's guilty, so it says a lot about people. I know it's an expensive story that Jusufović has to tell. He has no need for me to answer, there are authorities in BiH who are asking him to answer, and I don't think this addressing me will help. I've been ready to talk about myself since '92. until '91. As each of us should be prepared, so should Mr. Jusufović. You know, Mr. Jusufović, this isn't where you're asked to lie down with me if you have no proof, but I'm reading that something else is asked of you. That you are asked to remove immunity and I find it difficult to discuss with people who are under a strong criminal record who are being placed on his soul. It's very difficult to establish a dialogue between you and me. I can write ten PhDs. I'm a master for that, but like there are people who don't know or don't want to or won't read, and that's where I can't help them. When it comes to groups of people who are in The Hague, or who are suspected of The Hague. I'm sure you won't find me in those groups, but it would be good to open the debate on The Hag and the crimes you belong to within the party you belong to. I am, if the journalists don't already know, and I don't think I should teach them either, the president of the Democratic Party for Banja Luka and Krajina, which is the only regional parliamentary party. It is not a populist party, but here is Nikola Špirić, thanks to his dedicated work he has been an MP for a number of years, seems to be your grief, and never has Nikola Špirić been a member of the SDS, nor has he been a member of the PDP, but these are coalition contracts, as your party has concluded a coalition agreement with other parties that I am not slow, but I must tell you that your debate and my answer now has nothing to do with the permanent electoral law and I am asking you to return to the agenda point. If you have any arguments for Nikola Špirić who can blame him for something, there are courts, prosecutors, and it seems to be your future, and I want it the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u525	Thank you very much. Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u526	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course we need to get back to the debate on the agenda as soon as possible, but before that, there are some things that just can't be crossed, so I'm going to be quick. Mr. Špirić in BiH was not a civil war. An aggression has been committed on BiH. Mr. Jusufović told you where you can look for documents, which are related to the issue. There are at least three UN tribunal rulings. If you want, I can present you with a few UN Security Council resolutions from which you will be able to clearly conclude that an aggression has been committed on BiH, 24 others review footage of various TVs from 92nd to 95th, so you will see where the tanks came from in BiH, tanks columns. So much for this, I had to react for principled reasons. When it comes to electoral law, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are having a debate today on the principles of the law. I'm not talking about the amendments today. I'll only talk about principles. I will actually try to paint the constitutional and legal environment in which BiH is located, in a situation where such an important law is passed and, on the other hand, the ambience from which it is quite certain and clear that the adoption of the electoral law in BiH is a condition for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. I, therefore, support the adoption of the BiH electoral law, because it is, of course, one of the very important conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, but on that occasion I would like to say that we cannot go beyond some of the principles that concern or that stem from the constitutional and legal environment in which BiH is located. Here at the pay phone, I could paint two approaches to the election law. One is an approach that tries to respect the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitution of the people across BiH's territory and another is an approach, which ignores that decision, but only calls for what is written in Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, that is, in the BiH Constitution. The BiH Constitution for me is what is written in Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The BiH Constitution for me is also international and legal acts that are part of it and which are superior to the BiH Constitution, if the BiH Constitution is contrary to international legal acts and the BiH Constitution are decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court to which the BiH Constitution is interpreted. This is the BiH Constitution and, of course, the electoral law must be in line with the BiH Constitution, and under the BiH Constitution, I said what I meant. Here at the pay phone, therefore, we had an invitation to the Constitution and so, of course, we should do it, but it should always be done. Over six years have passed since the three-month anniversary of the conclusion of the Dayton Peace Agreement, within which entities had to bring their constitutions into line with the BiH Constitution. Republika Srpska didn't do it until today. The Federation did it in part, not entirely. I haven't heard from any of us once after this pay phone that in Legislative Affairs and Initiatives has raised this issue. We would be principled, or we would be principled those who today are calling for that thing here in this House to be encouraged and asked by the entities to bring the entity into line with the BiH Constitution. The Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people is rality. She's been brought in. A year from now, it will be a month from now that the decision has not been implemented. Could therefore now be passed electoral law without respecting the effects of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people as some suggest. He can't. What can't it be about? Because the electoral law in its decisions should also include solutions that will arise through the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, which already exists by the Constitutional Court Decision, they only have to be applied in the ethnic constitutions and we have two exits. Or to abandon from the electoral law what the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionalness of the peoples, as done by the Council of Ministers in its proposal, or since entities did not comply with their constitutions with the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people, to directly apply the Constitutional People's decision on constitutionality. 25 Mr Jusufović offered several amendments to which he tried, practically, to directly apply the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality and I joined it. I believe this is a procedure that is fully in line with the Constitution of BiH and under the Constitution, I said what I mean and I see nothing against it. This is, therefore, a principle relating to the electoral law, which concerns constitutionality and legality and another principle that I would like to say briefly and if it is no less significant than this principle, is the principle by which we are obliged to pass laws, which will result in positive processes in BiH, which will encourage implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement and encourage the implementation of laws already in force in BiH. I specifically want to talk about Article 29. Draft election law, text of the Council of Ministers. I think that provision must, in another way, be governed by the electoral law. It must be arranged in such a way that persons who violate property laws and persons who violate Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement in breach of property laws, dkalas, persons who use other people's property, who use properties that are owned by refugees or displaced persons or who use dwellings where there are resident rights of refugees or displaced persons cannot be registered for voting in the municipality where they use that property. Their active voting rights can only be realised in the municipalities of the population according to the 1991 census. In this way, at least in part, if this approach were to be revoked, the consequences of ethnic cleansing are favoured by Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the implementation of property laws is encouraged. In that direction, I've made one amendment. I won't talk about the amendment. I'll talk about it when there's an amendment debate. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u527	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, the Turjačanin has a business intervention. Am I right? Here, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u528	My business-esteemed fellow delegates, the esteemed Presidency, my business intervention refers to Article 51. The Rules of Procedure, which reads that a delegate or other participant in the debate can only talk about the issue under discussion. Unfortunately, most of the replicas and false allegations go past the agenda that we have defined at this point in the agenda. I ask the chairman, to use his right to experience all those discussions that go past the agenda with... replicas and false allegations and to classify it here as a moment. What am I talking about? I am speaking for the reason that in the first place I appreciate the dignity of this house, I appreciate the size of the moment we are in, and I appreciate the opportunity that Mrs. Legal Advisor of the Council of Europe said and which we should not miss, not to say, with empty rhetoric and empty discussions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u529	Thank you, Mr. Turjačanin. I'd very much like to grant you my authority on this fact, but I'm referring you to an area in which I'm very immodestly aware. There should be strict texture analysis here to prove if something with 26 is related and I assure you that I don't have those powers because people are skilled speakers. In any case, they link all the things they want to say, however, to the subject of the debate. I'm on your side, but the Rules of Procedure aren't on the side of the two of us. Mr. Tokić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u530	I've reported for a number of reasons, among other things, my name was mentioned here in a very non-crete context. I love the word rotten. I think, regardless of the supporters of this Serbian and Croatian language, this gives all the weight of the meaning of that word, and I would like to say that it is not my thought, nor is it some truth that I have spoken here. This law will really inhale only what we agree on, Mr. Jusufović. I won't say anything else. I don't know how else you can get to the law. So what we agree is going to get into the law. My intervention and my request was, since we know very well the political views and the parties and the larger ones and the smaller ones that we do not go with those requirements that we know in advance, so that we are measuring and because we have received one favor from both of the rapporteurs of the Council of Europe that we will be allowed to agree and what we agree, and that will be very little, it will not be a rich law in its basic text, that it is enough as an expression of the compromise and willingness of this Parliament to demonstrate responsibility for this very important... I'd use this word hard enough for the debates that can follow after 23rd if we don't provide the fulfillment of this first one and I'd say the most important conditions, whether they're being held responsible. I think it will be entirely relevant for the citizens and the peoples, perhaps for the press conference it will be important who is to blame for not passing the electoral law. For BiH as a country it will be relevant. There will be even less significant discussions that I consider very important, which is the character of war in BiH, the application of European conventions and these topics will be much lower to us, less important in BiH if we are not in the Council of Europe. If we enter the Council of Europe, these discussions will have their full weight, because we will be able to use these European conventions and institutions that are in charge of interpreting, protecting and judging about these European conventions. I'd say another situation no one should forget. The text of the law does not contain provisions declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. That text is the law, we are not in the process of changing the Constitution. We are in the process of correcting what is rightly pointed out by counterpart Džaferović which we should have fixed long ago. So, these provisions, simply if they were to enter, would very quickly be decided by the Constitutional Court that this law is also against the constitution which, of course, does not contribute to this Parliament. It came from a perfectly good motivation to advocate plenary sessions and motivations, even if this home changed its constitutional position and served as an immediate approval of the law. The position of this home is defined by the Constitution. The work is defined by the Rules of Procedure. By respecting motivation, I must tell you responsibly if you read the Good Rules of Procedure, you will see that in plenary sessions, with amendments, we can make more confusion than constructive work, because I simply cannot imagine what it would be like to make a statement to someone from the Remy House, and those from the House of Nations don't have first to discuss, especially us who like to relate to various discussions, so I'm not afraid of the time period. I'm afraid and only advocate one thing. If there is a consensus, if there is this approach, the variant that I have tried, or 27 we can find other variants, we will very quickly agree and agree and that we have deadlines, and I don't know how much, that would happen in the last two days, and I am apologising once again, that in the next period, we will really try all these discussions that will have no meaning, unless we provide this, we will push into another plan and, with full respect, try to reach this electoral law and respect all parties, without characterising any party at this point less important, because all parties are responsible for adopting this election law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u531	I thank Mr. Tokić. Mr. Mihajlović answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u532	Dear Presidency, honourable delegates, fellow ministers, guests, I will try not to take up much of your time, just in a few words to distract you that the draft of the BiH election law, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers, contains several important provisions and what we were doing when we sent you this draft electoral law. First of all, it is indisputable and you have also found that this draft electoral law is in line with the BiH Constitution, which is the most important, because we all swear to the Constitution and it is an obligation that before something comes into debate, it should be assessed whether it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. We cannot assess whether the Constitution of BiH is, in accordance with some wishes or what we have heard today, whether this Constitution is in accordance with conventions, it is a procedure that is always before you and you can always come into a situation to start changes to the existing Constitution and it is known the procedure and the procedure is how it goes. So we didn't want to enter into this electoral law any predictions that could possibly come on the agenda in the future. Also, we had in mind the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH and this is one of the compromises that we have reached on the Council of Ministers that what has already been initiated by this Constitutional Court decision to change the entity's constitution, we try, or we do not enter into the electoral law, and if we could, on the basis of existing provisions, enter these chapters that have been left out of these three chapters, but we have reached a political compromise, together with OSCE experts, that these are gaps in the Constitution and that, by the end of the year, we are likely to be in a position to restart the amendments and amendments, possibly adopted by this law, so that both these gaps and probably something else, for which political conditions are changed in the adopted electoral law. We had in mind that OSCE representatives of the international community and those who helped us enter the Council of Europe would be pleased to have three gaps left in the electoral law, but no more. If we go with a number of gaps, which was here today, too, a proposal, it would already not be acceptable for the OSCE and such a law could not be considered to be a law. The law, with a large number of gaps, would be similar to some of the laws on transitional and final provisions, or I don't know what they could call it, so I wouldn't have that satisfying form, which would satisfy the OSCE and probably also a significant number of both parliamentary parties in one and another home. So already some of the compromises you're talking about today are contained here. Looking for more compromises, beyond what has already been included here in this electoral law, which the Council of 28 ministers is proposing to you, would violate one text that would question how the experts or experts we have formed in the Council of Ministers, when they considered this text, which they also felt that leaving out certain gaps in the electoral law would not be so, or could not be considered to be an election law. So, on the trail of what has already been said here today, I dare suggest, and you will probably be in charge of this debate, to get out of this situation, which is not easy at all and perhaps expected this debate, to go back to one necessary compromise, but not a compromise that will question all of this that we intend to talk about. We've spent two years already, in connection with the election law, and if we go back to our own trenches, we'll never pass this electoral law. We must therefore be aware that, with respect for the Constitution and certain compromises and regarding the Constitutional Court's decision, which is already in some way in the realisation of entities, based on those three, I would say that the conditions should also be joined in the adoption of the BiH electoral law. It would be good if after this session, before the 21st, and I expect you to do so, that the chairman, the respective presidency and one and the other home with the presidents of the constitutional committees, as soon as they meet and agree on the next procedure, and I suggest you accept this draft proposed by the Council of Ministers, as the House of Representatives has done, and that without great debates now, I am afraid that this is moving us away, because the debate has already begun to distance us from what we all seek to pass this electoral law until the 21st. Of course, this shouldn't be repeated, this isn't an ultimatum or an OSCE or anyone, but it's a procedure, whatever happens to us, if we pass the electoral law by 22. And what happens if we don't bring it in eventually. Therefore, it is up to us to keep this in mind and assess and find a compromise. That compromise reached at the Council of Ministers, it was obvious and it was, I think we should strive to go to both homes to follow this compromise and not ask for further compromises because we will lose the basic thread. There are two alternatives that are given in this law, regarding the Council of Ministers, you have in some way a good basis I would say to the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives and that's what you need to... It is clear that we must compromise the law, because Parliament is one and the other council composed of a large number of political parties, each having its own view of this law, but if we want to, then we must give up certain laws, where we do not have that sufficient compromise with others. We will have a chance, very quickly, I hope by the end of the year to discuss this law again, when we implement decisions and fill these gaps, and there may already be an opportunity to fix some more things, because certainly we in the Council of Ministers that this is an ideal law and that this law... has but thanks to just one compromise, we must swallow those mistakes and in the next period when we have greater political unity or convergence, we will be able to fix this text of the law and get to one, perhaps, even more quality law, maybe by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u533	We thank Mr. Mihajlović. Mr. Halig Genjac picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u534	29 Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that the conditions for the work of journalists are improved and that they can hear us better, because there have been complaints about not hearing below. We are talking today about the principles of electoral law and we are having a debate in principle, therefore, a general debate. I think it is not possible to circumvent the fact that we have the Constitution of BiH, that we have everything contained in the Constitution of BiH and that we have the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality and equality of the people throughout BiH and in both entities and the Constitutional Court's decision to bring the entity's constitution into line with the BiH Constitution. When that comes to mind and when it comes to talking about principles, I will speak in principle. The proposed solution by the Council of Ministers has one deficiency, which has alternatives embedded within it, which is a technical obstacle to more expedient work in Parliament. However, I think there are some principled shortcomings. The lack, in my opinion, is that active and passive voting rights are not regulated on the same principle both in terms of insurance and in terms of restrictions on active voting rights, and I think that these rights and active and passive voting rights should be resolved in the same way, I think that it is logical, understandable, that it is difficult to bear counterarguments. It's another thing. It is known how relatively small the number of powers are in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions and how much is the relatively large number of competencies in entities. At the same time, it is known that, with such a relatively small number of powers, equality, constitutionality and non-discrimination are ensured in the bodies, the central authorities of BiH, where I said a relatively small number of powers, so the presidency is multinational, so the Council of Ministers is strictly multinational. The constitution stipulates that deputy ministers must be from other peoples, so that the House of Peoples has been established, etc., even the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, has prescribed or passed a law imposing the rotating of the Council of Ministers, ensuring the representation of all peoples in that position. Of course, BiH is who it is. The peoples of BiH, the peoples of BiH are her wealth and should be so, but if this is the case at BiH level and if a decision has been made that the peoples are constitutional, that they must not be discriminated against in entities, the question is indeed why is it not so in entities. For what is a large number of powers in an entity, can be exercised with a one-national government, with one national ministries and with a one-national presidency? So, I believe that, on the same principle, as constitutionality, equality and non-discrimination is ensured at BiH level, the same principle must be ensured at entity level, even more so, I believe that both at BiH level and at entity level, the position of others must also be ensured. Of course, there will be a legitimate question in time, whether it is too much of a position. It is likely that some will be assessed as irrational and excessive, but on the same principle of rationality, this will be resolved at some thresholds and after the results seen in the implementation of this solution. During the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision on constitutionality, ideas were made publicly that there must be an adequate solution at both entities level. A solution to the protection of constitutionality and the elimination of non-discrimination, I think it's good and I think it's necessary, but I don't think that's enough, because I think equality can be achieved in solutions that are not adequate. Having this solution at BiH level at the level of BiH's central authorities, given the essence of BiH, given the Constitutional Court's decision, I think that either the executive authorities, even under the entities must ensure 30 multiethnicity and must ensure that all peoples and others are represented and in the positions of the executive government, because BiH is a community of constituent peoples, entities are communities of constituent peoples. So, I think these principles, with the argument given, should be contained in the electoral law. The Party of Democratic Action will contribute to finding and finding compromise solutions, healthy and fresh compromise solutions, regardless of what the SDA has been prevented from making a full contribution, in line with its election results and potentials. I'll remind you we've proposed that the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission be from the SDA, we've proposed a man with experience, who's a lawyer. The Tokić kolegij member had most of the solution that he wanted to be the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. After a month, he resigned. The SDA had ambitions and a request for business to be represented in delegations in line with the election result. Mr. Tokić is with the majority that he has eliminated and that possibility, and therefore Mr. Tokić should not lecture here on the need for political alignment within the majority. I fully agree that one of the majority will bring this solution. I do not agree that it will enter into the law, the solutions that we agree on, but the solutions that a certain majority votes on. Mr. Tokić has repeatedly demonstrated that he has this majority, that the majority has power. That majority, of course, has a responsibility, is a responsibility to the majority. Not only is the majority formed around delegations and elections in positions but also about the electoral law. But to do so, it takes political dialogue, a lot of engagements, political work, not travel from Havana, and I am particularly surprised that Kuwait, which is being prepared four days before Parliament is being held to pass the electoral law. Today is the trip of the College members to Kuwait, of course not all of them. Mr. Šimić doesn't go, Mr. Špirić doesn't go, but Mr. Tokić goes. I think that the majority that exists in Parliament and the responsibility it holds, in accordance with its power shown by the announcements that it is not personal, but programmed, I think that it, in accordance with the feeling of that responsibility, will show that responsibility in this important business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u535	I thank Mr. Genjac. Replica Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u536	I think that respected fellow envoys – delegates recognized the frustrations precisely located the frustrations of Mr Genjac, and I'm not answering for it, but just to start out a quote in which the return visit to Kuwait, the Kuwait National Assembly, is treated as some journey needlessly, I don't think it's correct. The visit was planned significantly, significantly earlier, under the obligations we have. We defined that visit a few months ago and do not worry about anything within the College, we will ensure that Parliament works, I, of course, know that you will be sorry that I will be absent for 3-4 days, but you can trust both Mr Šimić and Mr Seje Avdić who are chairman and who will be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u537	It's the beginning of the wrong quote, Mr. Genjac. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u538	The call to which it is concerned has arrived at the time of Parliament's previous call. That speaks of the urgency of the visit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u539	Thank you very much. Mr. Divković answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u540	Gentlemen chairman, respected colleagues, a man really often thinks deeply about whether he has a purpose to go out for a pay phone and speak. Especially after Mr. Mihajlović's presentation, I expected, to be honest, that we speak first, so that then Mr. Minister, in the end, as a representative of the Predlagač, made his position clear. But here's the idea that I'd go out for a pay phone, so I'd try and somehow contribute back to the discussion in the agendas, to try, I'd say to the end that we're serious about the thing that, however, I think we're getting along extremely... This Parliament has once again the opportunity to take responsibility and respond to that basic task, which is why we are all sent here and elected, which is to pass laws. This time, unfortunately for us, it's a very serious and difficult law. A law that's right behind the Constitution by rank of some I'd say the first act in legal projects. He edits everything in the state, which the Constitution did not ultimately decidate, but left to be solved by that law, but defines the state in some way, how it will work and that is the problem this, that is on the one hand the problem, on the other hand the problem is time. Time is defined, too, if this law, let's do it again until 23rd if so, this is the deadline left for us, BiH cannot be admitted to the Council of Europe for sure this year, and most likely for reasons presented by the Council of Ministers, and we all know because of the elections for the European Parliament next year, etc. Not the next one, but in 2003, we might have a chance, who knows. So BiH, it stays completely on the line of events in Europe, if we don't finish this job and all the stories about concepts of consent and disagreement, the amendments only make so much sense if they constructively contribute to us passing this law by 23rd. Everything beyond that, whether we want it or not, is whether it is a principled or non-principled obstruction of law-making, i.e. obstruction of BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. That's one truth and we're facing a hard test. I have to say one thing, which may not be a good point, but it's just that. This pay phone is often spoken as political marketing. We also know that those of us sitting here know that also the representatives of the media and the international community and the citizens who look at us and listen to us and today it is used. People of this country are often mentioned here, their position, workers are mentioned, difficult economics, social situation etc. is mentioned. Well, gentlemen who all of you, and usually a certain number of delegates here, keep saying this, and this points to now having the opportunity to set BiH in order for democratic European countries to create the necessary preconditions for both economic and social things to get better in this country. They will go on just like that, if we are in line with such countries, if the world trusts this country in this parliament, the government of this country and starts investing in this country, which 32 of the Council of Ministers chaired here on several occasions means that we are creating an ambience to change this situation, and the electoral law is the basic element of all this. Now we get to what's most difficult. About these things we probably all agree less – more, however, we come to what is called a political compromise in the electoral law in order for the law to be passed. I am also like many others sitting here, being a living witness of attempts to pass electoral law and in the previous assembly of Parliament, now in the House of Representatives, then the party in which I am, so the socijal Democratic Party had its proposal of electoral law as many others, is not controversial and it did not pass then we failed to pass the electoral law. I am now pleased that the Council of Ministers has found a compromise with the Bill of Elections and let us try to gather around this proposal of the Council of Ministers' election law, which, already Mr. Mihajlović said in itself a compromise, to see whether this is, or possibly, to build an even further compromise to the extent that the OSCE and others decide to do so, I would say about the validity of this law, to reduce the struggle of the amendments to the minimum necessary, I would say, to create this compromise, that we would end all this work, and therefore I call for a compromise and call for us to gather around those proposals that say, give it all, what we disagree about, we leave it in the transitional and final provisions, or I don't know where, in some way, to create a legal framework for BiH to be adopted in the Council of Europe, and we will return, as Mr. Mihajlović says those decisions by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u541	Thank you, Mr. Divković. Mr Spahić made a short promise.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u542	Mr. Chairman, I will speak as much as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I really like that word, because democracy is based on procedure, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is in accordance with its work and principles of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as you have seen from 7-12. First, she confirmed the constitutional basis of the Council of Ministers' Proposal for Law, secondly, for the reasons for the adoption of this proposal by an emergency procedure, thirdly, supported and adopted unanimous principles on which, the principle on which this proposal was drawn up and, of course, in accordance with the letter of Mr Šimić and the amendments that arrived by 2.30 were set out according to these amendments, not intending to put them into circulation at all today, but it is correct that, when it appears before home, she announced her report. Well, that's all there is to it. As far as participation in the commission is concerned, all the members of the Commission participated except for Mr Ivo Živković's absence of the justified and Mr Spiric Nicole. The Commission has a full quorum in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and has never been on the edge of a quorum. So she worked completely in line with the principles of doing this home. As regards the character of the debate under Article 82, the Commission's procedure was led after a general debate and a vote on the principles of the proposed law, so that the vote was adopted to continue the procedure, given the urgency of adoption of this bill. On the proposed amendments, she also imposed procedures. 33 Since there were extremely many amendments, the president could order how they say here to order another way of debate, but in any case he respected and ensured that all political opinions could be properly expressed. Mr Rodić pointed out within the framework of the Commission's work from beginning to end and to this day, that the work of this commission has been extremely tolerated, correct and that we have considered and given an opinion on each amendment. In my report, I noted that all amendments remain, of course, open, legitimate until the final decision in the House of Peoples, and therefore there is not a single procedural oversight that has broken this commission. Mr Ivo Živković also took part in the final part and during the entire work of this commission, these two absences of an hour did not damage the quorum of this commission's work. Thus, we are all witnesses of this. It would not have been correct because of public misunderstandings regarding a statement on the work of this commission. Now I'd like to say something about the character of this work today, this session of the House of Peoples. This session of the House of Peoples is scheduled to be a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers in the first reading. Now I'd like to speak as a delegate. So there's sometimes a different position in this regard. I just wanted to explain correctly how this thing was happening to us here with the body of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. As far as my position is concerned, as regards this bill, it is clear that the Council of Ministers' law has given special attention to delegates in the House of Peoples, because so many proposals have arrived that have said it is necessary to express the breadth of political views on this whole law. I feel justified, that it was possible to provide such a procedure and access to the final, before the final adoption of the law, the electoral law, because this is the meaning and essence of democracy, the meaning and the essence of Parliament itself. There is no reason for me to, clearly, not to inform you that there have been other initiatives to be adopted without any debate without any amendments and without any reflection on the issue of the electoral law, by an urgent procedure and without the right to make amendments. Since it is an electoral law, which the Council of Ministers finally proposed in a certain, natural political compromise, because it was quite clear that it was necessary. I still thought there would be an election law in BiH, and I still think that we will be able to build one approach that will ensure that, this electoral law, I underline, is primarily a support for democratisation of relations in BiH political and then entering the Council of Europe. Completely upside down the thesis offered here in today's debate. I am amazed by some delegates, who are inclined to speak to the adolescence often, who say that this law is actually in the function of our entry into the Council of Europe, it is simply not true. The statement by Mrs. Jatamaki, formerly Mr. Šurjan, as well as the character and position of the Council of Europe, absolutely does not bind us, in this way to the Council of Europe, but binds us to democratisation in our own country. The basis for democratisation in its own country, therefore, a democratic one system, is the electoral law. Therefore, this law, first of all, is brought for BiH, and we do not bring it because we should walk into the Council of Europe without, say, 18 requests from the Council of Europe for entry having not realised two-thirds. So let's not replace the thesis. This debate at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples is being held because normal society and this parliament must concentrate on democratic relations in BiH. That is the essence of the reason why I insisted that we go through this phase of the amendment debate, 34 whether or not we agree with the amendments, whether or not the position of the Constitutional-First Commission will end up like that. They will vote on both homes and will be determined according to all amendments and, of course, the Council of Ministers who eventually have a chance to say this amendment is in line with this, we did not accept it, etc. It's a procedure. The procedure needs patience. Also, it is ugly for some of our colleagues, delegates, to discover to each other the hot water that a compromise is needed to achieve something. It's ugly because it's really like if someone said they wanted to wash and then say I have to go to the water to wash myself. It is quite clear in politics that any solution will be compromised, because then there would be no difference between political parties, between different individuals, economic, social, etc. and the deposits of every society. It's ugly because then and based on such stories, they're made so-called. Obstacles and barriers between individual political options and interests and thus creating an impression as if it were a big business, of enormous importance for a particular group, and in fact it is a natural, democratic process that should simply be followed. We don't have to have amendments, or different proposals in the discussion liked anyone at all, but because someone put out a position, gave some amendment, which some have passed some instance, some have not passed, and you can't ask anywhere on the globe to block or maintain such high criteria as this debate today has proved completely unnecessary our approach to this business in accordance with the procedure. So, going back to this procedure and what we said, I believe that today, after this debate, we can, and if there is anyone else to say, probably has, accept the Council of Ministers' proposal in the first reading and allow a democracy procedure to go to the second reading, and in the meantime I would like to make three proposals. First, I'm asking you to listen to the proposal now, how do we get out in time? If we adopt the draft electoral law today in our first reading, we have unblocked another phase of the debate in making the final decision. Secondly, operationally, it is perfectly normal for the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Nations and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives to exchange information on the overall amendments, as well, to consult with the Proposer, because there is no reason for the promoter to be directly involved. I must say that the promoter in front of the Minister's flowers was present from 7-12. On the Commission of the Constitutional and Legal House, if we had had had had very correct co-operation here, and then, in my opinion, by Monday, we should be working these days, we should schedule a joint session of the Colleges of the Two Homes on Monday, invite the Presidents of the Constitutional-First Commission and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives and invite the Proposer. In the course of this debate in both homes, I have registered that, exclusively, amendments have been given to the Council of Ministers' law. I don't know if Mr. Mariofil Ljubić has received one amendment to his law. No one responded to Mr. Špirić's law. I am not going to say that this law is not worthy and that it is not worthy of the attention of this process democratically, but today I understand Mr Špirić's statement that he will take lessons according to these facts and will allow him not to block the process of pleading on the proposal for a law given by the Council of Ministers. If I understood him correctly, I hope 35 he will withdraw his law and create conditions for us to discuss only one legal act. Not because we don't have time, but because, you know, in a democratic procedure, if one law, as the Council of Ministers' law has caused such attention and shown a relationship between both homes towards it, then it was correct of the legislators of other legislative proposals to allow one and the other home to be declared by an urgent procedure on the Council of Ministers' proposal. This is my proposal, of course, which I would like to refer as an appeal to Mr Ljubić in the House of Representatives and Mr Špirić in the House of Peoples, to allow us to concentrate our work on the Council of Ministers' proposal and immediately. Of course, they can do it past the session. As for this joint meeting on two colleges and presidents of the Constitutional Affairs Committee of both homes, as well as the promoter, I am quite sure that, given the fact that in both homes and the fact that the proposing has also accepted the truth, what was the basis for deciding on these gaps is three or five, that the Constitutional Court's decision is something that is implied, because it is the basis for this compromise, that we will be able to get out of this situation and that we will be able to present ourselves before one and another home, of course with those amendments that have received the appropriate support and that we will get out of this situation, in a way that it is natural in the BiH Parliamentary assembly. The only thing I think would be good is, in a college of one and the other at home, making sure that the constitutional committee could really face all the suggestions that this session timing would be carefully considered so there wouldn't be any bullets. Namely, I have a problem here. If we were to determine the international obligations of our colleagues, who work in the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, we would not be able to provide effective coordination, and since it is very transparent, it is very clear that these reasons are internal to the adoption of the electoral law, I would recommend that this work be organised warmly, to ensure the presence of both the colleges and this commission in full, until 21st time we finish this job. I hope with full success and with the most important fact that all political parties, all the political forces in this country have expressed their views on the electoral law and joined a statement in the second reading and adoption of the electoral law, which will allow me first of all to underline the democratisation of relations in BiH and then enter into various Eurointegrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u543	Thank you, Mr. Spahić. Mr. Ivo Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u544	Madam Presidents, fellow representatives, distinguished guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I will indeed be much shorter than Mr Spahić and that I will change something I meant to say, because part of what I wanted to say, Mr Divković said before me. I would first of all like to commend the Council of Ministers of BiH that, within a very short period of time, after the constitution, it managed to come up with two joint documents of electoral law of BiH and yesterday the global economic strategy presented, which is actually the first joint document that was made and which shows that the better atmosphere of the government in the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers is becoming more and more a partner to the international community and not more of the body of the BH authorities, which was often known to it in the earlier period, could be opposed. 36 When it comes to, the proposed electoral law here, I must suggest modestly that, the predecessors said, and above all, Divković and now Mr Spahić to be in the middle... of the Council of Ministers' proposal with due respect for the effort and effort made by Mr Špirić and Mr Ljubić in their proposals of the electoral law, because at this moment with such limited deadlines, it is the only real proposal that is widely discussed and which, as I see in the mood here today and also at Parliament's House of Representatives, BiH can get the necessary majority and pass the first reading and I think should put it in priority, as otherwise should be put into priority that we should not be told here yesterday by Mrs Jatamaki that we do not stay out, that we become finally 44 countries, a member of the Council of Europe and that we do not stay out of Belarus outside of that European institutions. As the lady said yesterday, some consider it not the end but the beginning of a positive process in BiH. I hope that we will find enough political wisdom, will and what many colleagues here have talked about compromises like the Council of Ministers had to make a lot of compromises to come up with such a proposal to support this law at both Houses of Parliament and to make such a working atmosphere in these next 6-7 days to find enough strength to bring in time and to be admitted to that European roof institution at the autumn of the Council of Europe. I believe then that this eternal conflict between the individual civil society within us and the people and the nation by entering that European house, I believe will be much easier to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u545	I thank Mr. Živković. We have concluded the agreement on the principles of electoral law, the proposal and the Council of Ministers and Mr Nikola Špirić. I call on you now to vote if we will approach the debate on the articles, first on the Council of Ministers' proposal. Who is it to join the debate on the articles of the Bill on the Council of Ministers. - 12. Do you mind? The abstentions? There's not so many of us in the hall. So we adopted the Council of Ministers' proposal to discuss the proposal in articles. We now invite you to vote on the proposal of Ambassador Nikola Špirić. Shall we approach the debate on the articles? Who's that? - Nine for it. Who's against it? - 1 Suspension? – 2 I also agree that we will also discuss Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal on the proposal of Mr Nikola Špirić on the articles. Dear colleagues, I'm taking a break for up to two hours and then we'll continue on the agenda. Thank you very much. We have a quorum. However, something is missing, but we have a quorum and we continue to work. We have completed the discussion of two projects of the Election Law in principle and we have come, we have agreed to discuss both projects by members, or by these articles. I could argue, if you agree that we have actually reached this second part of the debate in the long debate and if you agree, I will immediately invite you to vote. There's no voting. Thank you. That's why the secretary's here to warn me, remind me. With this, 37 of us finished our first reading and at the next session that will be today, we have a second reading of both these legal projects. Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ad.4. Proposal for a law on the rights of ethnic national communities or minorities Proposer, Ambassador Ibrahim Spahić. This is a second reading. At the last session, we discussed the law in our first reading. Mr Spahić was asked or obliged through the debate, as much as you prefer, to make permanent suggestions in this proposal. There were no amendments. I know Mr. Spahić did it, so we can discuss it. But I wouldn't even see a big need to discuss it unless someone insists on talking. Of course I'll give him my word. He wants a representative of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zubak. Here you go, Zubak. Sit down, Spahić. They asked for the Council of Ministers, so be it, Mr. Zubak. Here you go, Spahić. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u546	Thank you. I'll be brief. Gentlemen, I believe most of you know, but here I am going to say it again. The Council of Ministers' Work Programme this year envisions the creation of a Law on National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and following the programme we were convinced that the programme is in line with the work programmes of the two Houses of Parliamentary Assembly we have made that law. He passed the Council of Ministers. We also held a public debate on the conditions under which it could be organised and implemented and the draft law was sent to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. And we don't think it would be opportunised now to open a debate on this legal project that Mr Spahić gave earlier. We think it would be complete, opportunized that these two legal projects might be coordinated and that they go with one legal project. But if you think that, this one continues in your procedure, we can't stop it, but we will eventually face this fact again that in one home we will have one law, and on the other we will have to reconciling. That's why I just want to point out what we've done and you're going to figure out what it's rational to do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u547	I thank Minister Zubak. We know of this fact, of course, and it's businessly possible for both of the variants that you're talking about. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u548	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that I am in line with the proposal I made in the previous session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the House of Representatives, which is well known and what has been accepted as a programme of work of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. I'm undermining both homes in the last term. As a decision was made not to accept the initiatives and legislative proposals set out in the last Parliament's call, it is necessary to renew them, after the start of the work of 38 people restored this initiative. The Constitutional and Legal Commission found that there was a constitutional and legal basis, that the proposal was based on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples and then we discussed the principles, as well as any other law. So there have been two discussions at the House of Peoples already. This is not the first, but the second reading and not the debate is being held, but it is now being determined whether the promoter has respected the debate that was held in the House of Peoples. The promoter noted, it was me entirely, as Mr. Šimić observed all the remarks and suggestions that I received from my fellow delegates. I also consulted different institutions in the same normal procedure. This is one of the proposals for a law that expresses, as a whole, the primary interest and the need which is, of course, verified, I have already said in my mind and in Parliament's responsibility that one of these laws should initiate and adopt. In the meantime, it is true that the Council of Ministers has initiated procedures for proposing laws on the protection of national minorities and that is also legitimate and correct. I don't see any obstacle, as a proposal to invite the House of Peoples to plead on this proposal, which was supported by the Constitutional and Legal Commission during the first reading of this high house. And I also don't see any obstacle if what Mr. Šimić was talking about, as Mr. Zubak spoke of, these legal acts are not the subject of our attention in this sense to make another better and to say a more successful project in the coming period. However, what is important this time, I only report to the team – is the legitimacy of the proposings, is the legitimacy of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives to launch the legislative initiative, is the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also has its own programme and work plan. We acted on our own program. We took it as an initiative. We started that procedure and developed it. It would be correct to define ourselves, as is the case with any other initiative, simply because we care to finally develop a democratic practice in this House and at the House of Representatives in Harmony. When we offered this bill by Mr Šimić in a consultation at the Council of Ministers, we received one reply, which I was already talking about last time, in which due to the mere fact that there is a legal proposal in the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers did not determine according to the bill itself, but it concluded, at least the one who signed the text, I no longer remember who signed it, I know that he was not a minister, he said that we simply had our proposal, so it is not an indication that we are practically considering what you sent. I want to warn you of one fact. If he proposes to the House of Peoples, and if Mr. Ilija Šimić, expressing our will, expressing the procedure democratically, referred one legal act, any regulation and document and requested consultation from the Executive Authority of the Presidency or NGOs, depends on the relationship to the problem and the content of the laws and acts, then I think it is normal to expect one reaction to this letter, to this act, to the legal project. And the very fact that there are parallel projects is not any particular argument, which is why we should say that it is now to give up a project, whether it is a Council of Ministers, at any time a delegate, or a home. So, entering into the essence of the idea itself, respecting the full fact that the Council of Ministers adopted a programme of work that follows, I only wanted to point out one moment that is very valuable, because there is no document that we received from the Council of Ministers without Mr. Šimić sending to the competent commission. At least my experience from these two commissions I worked on was like that. And I would like to say that 39 I am convinced that the House will decide in accordance with the best interests of Parliament's own life and its role as legislative. I don't want to reassure you again of the importance and reasons of this proposal and its legal determination. I think it would be incorrect to stop any project that comes from the MPs. This would seem about as in the previous debate that since we have the Council of Ministers' law, we should not have Mr Špirić or Mr Ljubić's legitimate law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u549	Thank you. Mr. Divković, Mr. Genjac unless Mr. Zubak insists he has something important to say to ask. Well, here we go, after God.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u550	Dear colleagues, I have come out as the chairman of the Republic of Croatia's delegation club in this house, to state the club's position on this law. So we fully respect the fact that this law is totally legal in accordance with the business procedure that has come to this Parliament. He passed the first reading and is located, which he says in the second reading phase. Many of the envoys, the largest number then did not know that this bill was being done in the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, we got that information. And that's good, and we also call on the promoter, and we suggest that the second reading, if it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we think that it does not conflict with the Rules of Procedure, be postponed until the Council of Ministers' law arrives, so some of the laws would say in the procedure they end up in front of this House, as well as before the House of Representatives. So we're looking for some solutions that the Rules of Procedure allows in this sense to make the law as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u551	I thank Mr. Divković. The Rules of Procedure can't be, can't predict all situations, it would really have to be too big, and the way we have it, we have to say publicly that we have inaccuracies. This option has not been settled in business. We are destined to complete the procedure for this law. Mr. Genjac just picked up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u552	Dear colleagues, it must indeed be reflected in the efforts made by counterpart Spahić to prepare a legal project and, of course, it cannot be avoided that this is the result of Mr Spahić's activities as MPs. I also think that attention should be paid to respecting procedures and respecting MPs, their rights and obligations by the Council of Ministers, but I don't think that should be a problem. It is theoretically possible that we, which has been proposed by delegates in the House of Nations, are considering or adopting, and at the same time in the House of Representatives, have entered into the procedure a proposal from the Council of Ministers and this proposal by the Council of Ministers at the House of Representatives may happen to pass the procedure that passed this proposal on to the House of Peoples. The consequence is that at some point it comes to a situation of harmonisation in very vague business circumstances. For this reason, I suggest that 40 of this proposal be supported by Mr. Divković, and if it is possible to sign Mr. Spahić and the competent ministry in the Council of Ministers together, and to be a single project which would of course continue the procedure in the House of Nations at this stage in which it is, and in the House of Representatives at the beginning of the procedure. Especially when I think that, regardless of what Mr Spahić states that he respected all the suggestions, one of the suggestions on the Komisja was just to do this and to agree and another remark was that the law in technical terms was possible to further prepare. So, I suggest that Mr. Živković's proposal be accepted and these two proposals agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u553	Mr. Zubak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u554	We have received this and we have set ourselves a proposal, or draft law prepared by Mr Spahić i there is actually no difference between what we have suggested, or what it suggests in its project, Mr Spahić. The only difference is in the name. But we didn't want to enter the very name of the law for the simple reason we see that the provisions, which is... the contents of the law that Mr Spahić has passed, mainly, have general and competent provisions, and all of this is embedded in this draft law prepared by the Council. We cannot say that we are against it, or that we have some objections to the text of the law, the content of the law given by Mr Spahić. Eventually, I'll just say about the name. It's two perfectly consistent legal projects. Only ours is wider, more comprehensive and more concrete than Mr Spahić's legal project. In fact, this project, as we have assessed on the Council of Ministers, contains mainly provisions of the Convention on the Rights of National Minorities. Most of the time, he's taking over those provisions. So we took it from the Convention as part of the general provisions or principles of the law itself. So there's no collapsing there. That's why we didn't even make any remarks about that text of the law. But we thought it was more rational for you two to align the law and the name, and there's no difference in the content itself. Ours is only wider, so to speak "our" more comprehensive and more concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u555	We thank Mr. Minister. Mr. Šipirić answered his words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u556	Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I supported Mr Spahić's initiative, and I don't think we have any other business opportunities in accordance with Article 91(4), but to make a statement in the second reading of the Bill on the Rights of National Minorities. I think we're about that attitude, if that law goes through to inform the Council of Representatives and that what's in that debate or adopts an identical text or asks for alignment, it's a procedure. Nothing bothers the Council of Ministers, when we adopt this request, to launch an initiative to amend and supplement the law, as well as a series of other legal projects that we receive in terms of improving the text. I think that for the work of the general 41 public and the position of national minorities it is very important to reach a legal framework and a legal proposal, which is living legal matter as well as all other laws that we can and with the suggestion of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and to launch initiatives on the initiative of Members. That's why I think that today we need to make a statement about this proposal and it is the right of every delegate to vote in line with their own feelings for this legislative project. But I don't think the MP's obligation allows us to go to some additional phase of alignment. We could do that in our first reading, and the second reading requires a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u557	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u558	Madam Chairman, I've only come out to say the club's position since this issue has caused certain dilemmas. Namely, the Club of Delegates of the Order of the Serbian People will vote in favour of the proposal, namely the law of Mr Spahić in this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u559	Thank you very much. No one's answered their word again. Not as far as I can tell. We don't have any heavy business misunderstandings here. Can Mr. Džaferovižć ask for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u560	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, serious law. All laws are serious, but it is serious matter, it is a commitment that Bosnia and Herzegovina should fulfil according to international legal acts, according to international conventions. So now we're meeting, I'm going to try not to repeat what has been said behind this pay phone so far in a situation where we have the law of delegates in the second reading and we have a bill of law that the Council of Ministers has, as an executive authority in this country, referred to a pragmatic procedure. We are obliged to pass as high-quality law as possible. The better the law. A law that will handle this important issue in the best possible way. I have heard from Minister Zubak today that the law put by the Council of Ministers in parliamentary procedure is broader in content and scope, that it discusses this issue more closely. Because of the importance of the problem itself, so also because of this fact that the Council of Ministers' proposal, without at all contesting Mr Spahić's right to propose, this is completely and legally and legitimately. I think, therefore, that it would be good for us to get as high-quality the text of the law as possible and in the best way to meet this international obligation, it would be good to have one law that will make this matter more comprehensive and more qualitatively resolved. I beg you, we can vote, so I won't, I won't be against this law, so right now you know. However, I would like to draw attention that after the procedure at the House of Representatives, we will again be in a position to do the same work. I'd like to ask Secretary Home just to tell us one thing here. I think we are obliged, all of us therefore, or the College of the House is obliged after the delegate proposes the law, to deliver the text of the law to certain entities, if they are not proposing. Among other things, it's the Council of Ministers. And it's done. We've received a response from the Council of Ministers. Today that answer is explained here and I think we should consider this fact in the decision on a further 42 procedures. I think the smartest proposal would be, the best proposal would be for Mr Ibrahim Spahić to agree that we should just, let's say, postpone the statement of the law until his text is brought into line with the text of the Council of Ministers and then we have one that is as good as possible in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u561	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. One moment. Are you picking up? Here you go. Break five minutes. Mr. Spahić, we're moving on. We have heard the argument of the Council of Ministers which seems quite convincing. We've also heard the proponent's argument, and we have before us the law. We read the law in the second reading. Business opportunities are completely narrowed down, regardless of all the different opinions, it is that we declare ourselves to the law or that the Proposer withdraws the law. The Proposer still has that option. Is there anything you'd like to say, Mr. Spahić?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u563	Thank you very much. I would like to express the satisfaction of hearing today Mr Zubk's statement that the two legal projects of the Council of Ministers and the legislative project that I have proposed are basically consistent projects and have fundamental ideas in common. It is also a great pleasure for me to put this proposal of the Council of Ministers' Legislative Project in the process and I can assure you, as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to make sure that it is considered and the answer to be given and to present it to the House of Nations so that the Council of Ministers can react to our possible remarks and amendments, etc. As for this legislative project, I hope that it will be discussed democratically in both the Houses and the Constitutional Commission by the end of its course. As regards the legislative proposal that I have made, I would just like to inform you that, given that there has been an opportunity in the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission that both reading, pro and other reading of this legislative project, and since I have been working on it for a very long time and I am convinced that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs such a law, I would like today's vote to determine whether we are all ready to work on coming to the best solutions. If we want to get to the best solutions, then I think it's a democratic and normal pathway and a path of alignment that will allow this law to be as appropriate to the interests of the protection of the Nazi minorities and the supreme democratic principles. Since there is no obstacle to this process of harmonisation which, quite clearly, will come when it comes to a statement on the Council's proposal for a Ministerial Statement on the bill that I have proposed, I am not withdrawing the proposal and I am asking the Chairman to put on the vote after this intervention a bill of law that I have proposed. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u564	Thank you. Mr Spahić, I don't consider it an intervention, and I'm going to put the law to the vote because it's a business procedure. Please make a nice statement. Who is it to adopt the Law on the Rights of Ethnic and National Communities or Minorities? Proposer Mr. Ibro Spahić. Ten's in. Who's against it, please? Three against. Restraint. I find that the law has been passed. Let's move on. Ad.5. The proposal for a law on the foreign trade chamber of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) is of course the first reading. I invite you to discuss the principles and necessity of the law. Is anyone answering for a word? If not, this is Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u565	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important and necessary that we get to the foreign trade chamber law of Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible. I think that's what the entity chambers expect from us, and I think this law will make it much easier for the external trade dimension that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs very much. In that sense, I think that this time ahead between the first and second reading should be used to maybe further try to reconcile certain remarks that have entity chambers, in this case, the Chamber of Commerce of Republika Srpska. I'll just point out that I have, about this general debate, a few suggestions, and it's up to the promoter to consider the possibility of them being incorporated into the text of the law in the second reading. I am almost convinced that in the second reading we will come to a harmonised text of the law on the outside trade chamber. I suggest calling in the preamble, therefore, when it comes to the constitutional basis, to call on Article 3(5). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not in Article 4(3). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, it should only be referred to that part of the Constitution that treats this problem and it seems to me that the constitutional basis is not at all controversial. Then in Article 1st, I propose that it read: - This law establishes, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Dayton Constitution) and the new state and economic structure, the external trade chamber of BiH and determines its jurisdiction, determines the internal organisation and termination of the Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is now an outside trade chamber. It is not the successor of the Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather a new form of chamber organisation concerning only foreign trade, and then educated by law and chambers of commerce Official Journal of the SRBiH No. 33/90, and then in Article 66(2), I propose to formulate itself in terms of businesses, banks, insurance companies and other legal entities registered for the conduct of foreign trade operations with 44 abroad in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are members of the external commercial chambers through entity chambers. And what would be good is the 26th Prefurmulative Article in the sense that the legal followers of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Chamber of Commerce are entity chambers of commerce, so Republika Srpska's Chamber of Commerce, the Federation's Chamber of Commerce. This may still need to be discussed in relation to one and the other chambers of commerce, but it is almost certain that this law must be regulated in order not to enter into additional legal gaps, whether the Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina's registration of an external trade chamber continues to operate or this is a new chamber form of action. It's not a minor question, believe me. We'd better get to a purely commercial chamber shape than pass the law and argue further. Therefore, this law should regulate the status of the current and status of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Chamber of Commerce acting outside the legal framework, or the bar cannot enter this legal framework in the way it is wanted by this legal project. So these are my little notes and I would like to invite the promoter to have this time between the first and second readings conducted in an attempt to comply with both the entity chambers of commerce and another circle and, of course, consider whether it is possible to install these remarks into the second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u566	Thank you very much. Because no one else answered. Yes, it is. Here you go, Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u567	Dear fellow delegates, the esteemed Presidency, that I have no information on the objections made by the Chamber of Commerce of Republika Srpska, I would now ask the Proposer in front of the Council of Ministers to explain this law, the draft law on the external Chamber of Commerce in the first reading, as would the President of the Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade Commission to declare himself under the proposed text. Another thing I'd like to know, too. As part of these materials, I also received some regulation on the selection of members in the Assembly of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. In accordance with this Regulation, I don't know if it's clumsyly delivered to us or whether it's an integral part of this material. However, this rule is thickening into the constitutionality, not to say in the external trade chamber, because it is said that, in fact, behind this law, or the draft law, I see that this chamber is a mere sublime, not to say the commercial chambers of Republika Srpska, or the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Brcko District, and we cannot from this level define the rules of choice in the Assembly of the Common Foreign Trade Chamber, if that is already defined, that I do not say substantially to this common institution. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u568	Thank you very much. If you like. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u569	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, this bill has been in the process for over a year now. There were a lot of drafts and this Council of Ministers found the last draft that was offered for first reading. He passed a 45-detailed reconciliation procedure and is mainly between entities and chambers to the current BiH Chamber of Commerce and the Republika Srpska Business Chamber. There are certainly certain problems that we are not sure are in line to this day. These are primarily remarks from Republika Srpska entities given through MPs Mr. Mirko Banjac. Most of these remarks, his, since they were on the texts that were previously offered as drafts. The majority of these comments have been observed. However, there is one part of the objections that are not respected. Mr Banjac, in his amendments, proposed solutions that go towards the fact that membership in chambers is indirect, that revenues are made indirectly through the contribution of entity chambers in principle 1/3, 2/3 that they are indirect procedures and choices and decisions. Given that the Chamber of Commerce, that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is not a government organisation, that this is a practical association of business entities, the Council of Ministers is at first remarks of 1.4. At the 11th session of May 18th, he took certain views on the amendments. One part of these amendments was, the Council of Ministers found that the biggest di-amendments related to corrections, the corrections of text consistency and the clarification of the text itself were built in. However, these remarks, which are principled, I say from the point of view of funding and participation in the decision-making, participation in the elections, these remarks were not accepted, because it was precisely from this logic, or from this attitude that they could not, because this is not an institution of the state, but not a government, that the rules applicable to state institutions could not apply to the automatic and not to the government's organisation. I agree that it must surely be speeded up and everyone cares to pass this law in entities as soon as possible, primarily our economic operators. I think that the next reading needs to be made, and I accept certain suggestions here that have been made to maximise the consistency of the text, and it is quite quickly that this chamber, or this association, is very necessary for export-oriented entities. This may be one contribution to reviving economic activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but certain, certain, certain formulations, certain remarks under which the Council of Ministers has already been declared, will be difficult to put back in terms of the need for reconciliation. Otherwise, this Chamber of Commerce, it is an external trade, it is a legal follower of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Chamber of Commerce, but it is an association after the adoption of this law, practically the economic chambers of entities and all entities that are made by external trade. That's how much I've had.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u570	Thank you very much. You helped. Anyone else want to talk? He doesn't want to. I've already figured that out. We will now vote on principles. Who's to be held to discuss articles. We'll vote on that. Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, it's unanimous. So we're having a discussion about the articles. We can also discuss this type of discussion if someone comes forward and then direct the law to another reading. I don't see him answering. Therefore, this law goes to another reading. Ad 6. Draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Debt Act We go by the same principle. So we're talking about principles. Is anyone picking up? 46 If we do not report, we will vote on who is in favour of moving on to the debate on articles. I think it's unanimous. It's unanimous again. I remind you that you have received a report from the Amdinistration and Financial Commission that you have hopefully read. Very interesting. In addition, he notes that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the law in a text that is not identical to the adopted text, but that it is only legal technical differences, and suggests that the House of Peoples adopt the innovative text of the draft law. The Commission shall take into account Article 94. 5. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples proposes to the House of Peoples to elect 3 members for a joint commission that would seek to reach an agreement on the same text of the law. We're going to need this in further relation to this law. We have a proposal and a request from the Council of Ministers to approach today another reading of this law. There is no business obstacle, given that it has passed the commission phase, etc. And since there is, the Council of Ministers has reason to have the need to do so, I suggest we accept the debate on this law and on the second reading at this session. Do we agree on that? Are we unanimous? We did. Now it's working what we've read from the Administrative Financial Commission. Does anyone want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. So we'll do it now. This is point 6. Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Trade Debt Act. We're going to pass that law now, and then we're going to do something else. Who is it to adopt that law? It's not unanimous. Who's against it, please? Restraint. One abstention. Given the note of the Administrative and Financial Commission, the laws are not adopted in the text in both homes, it is necessary according to the Rules of Procedure of our House, and he is not opposed to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to implement the procedure of conformity. That's three members each from home. As for the House of Peoples, so the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if you allow me to make a proposal so that we can discuss. Each of our committees, including the Administrative Finance Committee, has a president and two deputies. These three men are usually, and we can say necessarily from three of our clubs. So that's where I'm supposed to be satisfied. I suggest that it be the president of the commission and his two deputies. Do you agree with that? Can we vote on that too? Who's to get a commission like this to do the alignment? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There are no abstentions – one abstention. Excuse my fellow Špirić. Ad.7. Framework between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the EU's activities in BiH, Evo co-worker Špirić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u572	Ladies and gentlemen, I think points 7, 8 and 9 are talking about ratification of an agreement that is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic development. We have, of course, the entity governments' initiatives, so it would be good to ratify these agreements as soon as possible. One part of the funds is being blocked, not available to the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so I ask today that we ratify these agreements, because it is essentially about the ratification of the agreement so that the funds can be operational to the competent authorities and that we can simply implement these projects paid to the European Investment Bank, then development credit and agreement, a social sector adjustment credit that is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're talking about three agreements that I'm proposing today that we ratify to work on the growing needs of both entities and central authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u573	Thank you very much. I think my fellow Špirić's proposal is very constructive. Anyone else want to talk? He doesn't want to. I invite you to vote. Who is it to approve the ratification of that agreement? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.8. The development loan agreement (technical assistance project for the social sector) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association I think what Mr Špirić said is absolutely also relevant to points 8 and 9. Anybody want to discuss it? If not, I invite you to vote. Who's to give consent to ratification? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.9. Development Credit Agreement (social Adjustment Credit) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association Does anyone want to speak? He doesn't want to. Who is it that we agree to ratify this agreement. Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad 10. A report on the business of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Finance Audit Office for 200o. The year you got the report. The Commission for Administrative and Financial Affairs has considered it. Anybody want to talk? Is there anything the Office's representative might want to say? Here you go. Mr. Ivan Miletić. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u574	Dear gentlemen, the chairman and chairman, honourable envoys, we have made a report on the operation of the Office for 2000 in accordance with the legal obligation. The report raises the most significant issues that have been made in the period since the appointment of the auditor general and the deputy general auditor, that is 17. 5 by the end of 2000. Since this institution is first formed on our premises in the Report, we have highlighted our mission or purpose of existence, objectives, and we have explained certain legal provisions to clarify what has done our report and educationally. Our mission is to promote the highest standards in the financial management of reporting, properly conduct public affairs and a positive change in the provision of public services. From the established mission and objectives, and the law itself, it is obvious how much work is ahead of this institution, and I ask this high home to give support to this institution in its plans, i.e. in the achievement of the planned tasks. In the last year, in addition to this, we have carried out an analysis of the legal rules governing financial operations and it has been found that a whole set of regulations and sublegal acts is missing so that, in cooperation with the Treasury Ministry, we have already taken certain activities and the Ministry of Treasury has accepted these suggestions and are already in great activity regarding the adoption of these rules and regulations. I would also like to inform you that we are reviewing three of the biggest three of our biggest clients, i.e. the largest user of the pre-accounts, are the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And you can expect the beginning of the 7th month to have these three reports under review at this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u575	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. Do any of your colleagues want to talk? If he doesn't want to, I invite you to vote. Who's to adopt this office's report? Do you mind? The abstentions – no Thank you very much. Unanimity. Ad.11. The resolution on economic and social policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposed by Ambassador Ibrahim Spahić) was given you the resolution. Mr Spahić has embed so far proposals and views in Resolution. On two occasions, the resolution was debated in this home. It seems to me that, as far as business is concerned, it's already been done. We remain in fact to plead on this resolution, but Mr Spahić wants to speak very briefly. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u576	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that the resolution has passed, to add what Mr. Šimić said, the debate has passed and the Commission on administrative and financial issues. Unfortunately, there is Jerko Ivanović absent, the text on the Commission agreed in full co-operation, there are members of that commission, and I must say that I believe that this fate, as they say, is on the agenda in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time when the debate of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly on the framework and strategy for the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina has already been held for the next 4 years. I am very pleased that we had the opportunity to have yesterday as a persuasion of this debate, before today's decision, because it confirmed the importance and determination of this home and its respective commission, to define its policy in a very delicate area such as economic and social policy. I am pleased that it is possible today, adopting this resolution, voting on it, I do not want to prejudge, to get another new incentive that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the House of People, is completing a major task calling on the Council of Ministers to do the basic, fundamental task in addition to this framework strategy and this resolution, which is to make a proposal for laws that will indeed be reformable and that will allow a new environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina for domestic and foreign investments, greater employment and insurance for the development of this country. I thank all the delegates, especially in the Commission on Administrative and Financial Affairs, who have put forth a great deal of effort to work patiently on this text and that we are actually proposing together. I want to speak very plainly of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u577	Thank you very much, Mr Spahić. Please let us vote. Who's to adopt the resolution? Oh, there's Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u578	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, at the very beginning, I supported the adoption of a resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic and social policy and here's a conclusion that was an obligation to help Mr Spahić come to a concerted view. I'm sorry we haven't had so much time to say these suggestions now, I think they're in terms of improvement, I think they'll come across understanding with my friend Ibro, but here I'm just going to say what I think we should say, so that this resolution could really be one document that will oblige all the participants to whom it applies. I propose that in the first paragraph, therefore, the text reads – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the next text of the House of Peoples, invites the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to propose, in addition to the strategy of economic development, reform and legislation, and I add the words : - from constitutional jurisdiction that will enable the regeneration of BiH's economy to continue this text. So the laws of constitutional jurisdiction, 50 so they don't constantly settle, whether they're in the domain of the Constitution or not. So I just want it to be an explanation. In the second paragraph, the people's House considers resolving the problem of unemployment and general poverty a priority task, and now I add -- instead of governments, chambers, trade unions and all relevant BiH institutions. So let's cover all the institutions, because surely one part of the institutions couldn't count. So it's just an explanation. I therefore propose instead of governments, chambers, BiH trade unions -- all relevant institutions in BiH. So from the local, entity and general state level. The fourth paragraph – The House of Peoples considers the issue of producing a stable coin, the information of scientific and research technological development, assuming that citizens' standards should be increased. That's where he'd put the dot and delete this part of the sentence, and he's referring, I'll say why. Home of the people...first of all young people his respective education, employment, etc. In the first sentence, global development is covered, set aside, no matter what concern for young people has to be highlighted, but I think there are more segments in society, if we leave them out, it will cause unnecessary controversy, and the first sentence has just covered everything, and that's the part that any resolution can satisfy. As far as this fifth paragraph is concerned, I ask only an explanation – the House of Nations requires consistent implementation of the Council of Ministers' decision on special fees. I don't remember, I know there is a Bosnia and Herzegovina Tax Act, it refers to taxes in the DKPs. So this is the Tax Act in diplomatic consular offices and this represents the original income of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know that there's such a decision by the Council of Ministers and I really don't mind if there's a way to leave this paragraph. But this down below opens up different dilemmas, clashes with different old ones in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am ready to suggest that we leave out this passage, not without Resolution, precisely with the aim of making the resolution clear and core. This passage concerns all segments and conflicts with each other, and I'm afraid he'll be delegating this by now as clearly as possible. And on the back – the House considers it essential to adopt work social legislation. I'm just putting in here at entity level, because working social legislation is a social policy whether fortunate or unfortunate is in the jurisdiction of the entity. They're not allowed... because central institutions don't have that mechanism and we're going to have one paragraph that doesn't bind anyone. I am because this applies to entity labour legislation, see that every day citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina are asking for a social programme from governments, governments of one and the other. They're not asking for a social programme from the Council of Ministers, because they know it's not in the Council of Ministers' intelligence. I therefore think that this position should be put in place and the next paragraph – The House of Peoples believes that in all forms of pension disability insurance it must pay full attention and ensure that all the responsible pensions of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina receive a regular point and that the last sentence would leave out: - The relevant laws need to regulate relations in this most sensitive area of environmental protection. While we say they're in debt, it means they have to be arranged. I think we should put an end to this sentence and leave it out. These are my observations in terms of improvement and coreness and clarity of the Resolution, because each resolution must be somewhat binding on those bodies to which it applies. 51 I consider it my personal contribution that I could have made earlier in the agreement with Ibro, but here I am asking Ibro to plead as a Proposer. I'm willing to support this resolution, I hope he's also willing to support these technical adjustments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u579	Anyone else want to talk? Thank you, Mr. Špirić. If he doesn't want to, Mr. Spahić, please state your proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u580	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that on the occasion of this text, the remarks Mr. Špirić has now made, as a proposing, I can accept and naturally give these clarifications and clarifications concerning the adoption of the laws of jurisdiction under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's correct. As far as the second attitude is concerned. That I'm not doing it again. It has a magnetogram and a third one is also correct. So the first and the second and third of these remarks would be accepted. As for the fourth remark concerning the issue of young people and everything I said about employment, I would like to say that I personally, and the members of the Commission, for a reason, have left this out. There is much, I think Mr. Špirić also understood this need to isolate this problem and it will cost nothing of this House of People to leave this problem to be done. Who will do it with one sentence, better or worse, but I think that part would not accept it, but would ask Mr. Špirić to withdraw the proposal for us to change that text. Personally, I'd like that part to stay and I'd suggest we don't argue about it. So what about young people and their problems about employment, education, etc. Especially since it's nothing specially explained, but found to be one of this society's responsibilities. I'd ask for it to stay. I suggest we meet here. As regards the latter page’s observations, the Commission’s observations were formulated, and they insisted on that observation, and thus I would, since we have the Vice President of the Commission here, call on us to cooperate, since I wanted this joint project to be. If we all found a disagreement about this resolution, I would call on the vice president, if he wanted to clarify his position and I would then give my position and then I would, of course, give the consent to clear up that part too. And as for the last part regarding environmental protection, I'm undermining it again. This is a rare opportunity for us to express our relationship with a single sentence on the protection of the environment in one document of Parliament and the House of Peoples. There were no objections. Okay. It can be understood, but I don't mind. I'm sorry. There were no objections. This was probably transferred. I'd like to say something about what you've been saying about working social legislation, once again, since we've cleared this up. As far as working social legislation is concerned, if you insist on saying it's in entity jurisdiction, I don't mind, at this point it's understood that these are in the jurisdiction of 52 entities. If it is sometimes and when it is and how it is organized at the state level, it is normal to have it tied there. That's why I don't mind, but it wasn't the authority of the motionor, nor this commission to explain all the competences of everyone. However, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I accept suggestions that allowed the vote to take place and support in the resolution. I ask the Commission's representative that if he wishes to make a statement about the taxis more precisely, we should conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u581	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Let's try to bring it together, and we can also vote, but here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u582	I don't think it's a problem. We will come, therefore, and the goal is to come to a clear text, is not the intention and the goal of not getting the text. As far as this sentence is concerned, where I have suggested that young people... I suggest that it read as follows: - The House of Peoples particularly highlights the care for young people, the care for young people, all segments of youth problems, so also requires the Council of Ministers to adopt specific programmes that will allow them to be included in the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what it's like. I think it's just for the vagueness of the text, because when we insert something explicit. So that's where we agree, and that's about the cab. Here we call for a Council of Ministers decision I don't know about, and I was a member of the Council of Ministers. So there must be a decision. If there is a decision, I have nothing against it. Because she's valid and needs to be spent. And I mean this down -- the funds prepared this way, you need who's for manufacturing and exporting, etc. I think we're narrowing down the possibility for the Council of Ministers to use the financial resources rationally. I'm not about the declaration doing that. If we have a Council of Ministers, we have to trust him that all resources in their jurisdiction and financial resources will be used rationally. In that sense, I'm talking, and I know there's only one tax law. Only one legal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u583	Gosopdin Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u584	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we can't do this. Today, we have received the text of the rezulicija on Economic and Social Policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by delegates Ibrahim Spahić, who passed the procedure both at home and by the competent commission. All delegates who were serious about investing amendments to the text of the Resolution should have done so in time. Text fixes, sorry about the appointment, it's not an amendment. In order for us to see what this is all about, he is now to be declared. This is a serious document, isn't it? I now have to follow Resolution and what is proposed for the pay phone. 53 So it is said here to insert a term – instead of jurisdiction – constitutional jurisdiction. Is there any outside constitutional jurisdiction? Please. .. That might exist for you. Then he says, "Work social legislation at entity level." We need to see everyone together here in the Constitution now when it comes to working social legislation. What level is which segment of jurisdiction. I mean, we can't work like this. I am unable to plead at this moment on these remarks made by Mr Špirić. I can make myself clear, i.e. the proposals, i.e. the text which has passed the Commission procedure and which I have had the opportunity to see, read and study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u585	Thank you very much. We have a situation. Discuss it, gentlemen. This is a democratic home. You can discuss it. We have the opportunity to adopt the text that we received, which was twice at the House and on which were given observations and suggestions and which was respected by the promoter. That's one possibility. Another possibility is that today there is a business possibility of intervention on the text, because it is not the law, it is not subject to that kind of procedure. The promoter accepted, but delegates can't follow, I and I understand, it's not easy to follow the verbally spoken text compared to the current text, and guessed after 5-6 hours of work. So let's either define ourselves, or we'll trust the motionor and the delegate who proposed the changes between us and agreed, or we'll vote resolution. Mr. Džaferović will therefore vote on the resolution we have ahead of us that is one possibility and another possibility is that we will vote on a resolution agreed with this way between the promoter and Mr. Nikola Špirić. The situation can't be foreseen by the Rules of Procedure either, but I think it's logical and I'll call you to vote that way. And I mean logical voting order. First for that part of the text we got, so if he goes by and then there's no reason... to vote. Do you agree with this approach, because in the absence of a business solution I do not see anything new. You want Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u586	We agree here that it's a business, normal Rules of Procedure that couldn't record it now. But if the promoter has agreed with certain remarks, then we have two texts of the promoter. Then I don't see any reason if he's agreed to not go, say, that text, priority because he agreed to the proposal. And finally, if we can't find a solution here, maybe it's a variant to take a break, to make a new text.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u587	Just a minute. Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Džaferović, then Spahić. Please, gentlemen, for a moment, I think we're close to a solution. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u588	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can find a solution here, a way out of this situation and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Spahić said that he is practically the same administrative committee as he is. He said it. It's not that formal, he's the promoter, but we've done so on the Commission. I suggest this, to now conclude with remarks and to say clearly no more objections. This is the final moment until the comments could be made. This should have been done by Mr. Špirić, at least two days before home. That the text of the Resolution and the remarks made by Mr Špirić, or no remarks, sees again this Commission, that it is manifested beyond that and that it is then going to the House. No objections. The adoption or not adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u589	This is the third option. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u590	Dear Mr. Chairman, we were asked by a lady from those yellow benches, when we were passing the break, how come you're so much in the House of Peoples with initiatives on legal solutions, resolutions, so you're not the House of Representatives? I explained to her that it was Parliament and that it was perfectly normal for Parliament to be about some policy and that they should understand it, with these yellow benches and that politics was beginning to be built in Parliament. We should understand that, too. Now I'd like to say something on the occasion of the remark that was made. I'm not proposing a new text at all. First of all, I don't propose two texts. That's not true. I mean, Novaković put me in a position, probably wanting us out of the situation. I guess that's it. I proposed one text on a call from Mr Ivanković and gentlemen from the Commission on Administrative Affairs and Finance and I went and worked with them on this text. The result of our work is this text. So I'm really trying to be extremely correct. It is true that I am the Proposer, but it is true that the Commission has fully supported this text, which we have built together. There is one possibility, of course, that I do not deviate from these, this text, as neither the Commission, since it is a Commission proposal in some way. I took those suggestions. However, as a promoter, so it was my right to listen to the Rules of Procedure predict that Mr. Šimić is right until the last moment before the adoption has the right to say that I reject this resolution, I am looking for another project. There were even misunderstandings, so my resolution was proposed by the people of our home. But they rightly withdrew that resolution, because they said, well, that's really not right, if you suggested we go to this second procedure. What am I proposing now? I tried to identify myself directly according to the suggestions made by Mr. Špirić. I've said very precisely about agreeing, which I disagree on. I also said that the debate also began over this framework plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina's development strategy, so we asked in the beginning, 55 remembers Mr. Genjac to adopt one document in the form of a resolution request, so they adopted both homes by calling the Council of Ministers to determine the strategy. We waited almost two years and got that text. The second in this text now and with the interventions that Mr. Špirić gave us are not trying anything. So here it's only a matter of goodwill. As for indications of something that, as Mr. Džaferović, is quite correct to imply that it is from constitutional jurisdiction. Also for another colleague, for Mr Špirić, it is necessary to point out that it is from constitutional jurisdiction. I don't see a conflict of interest in that. Personally, I'm talking about myself as a proposing. When it comes to entities, that's what the working social legislation also refers to, I've made it quite clear what my position is. I don't think they should be listed as entities, because that's understood. That's my opinion. I made that public. However, as an example, Mr Džaferović cited what it would mean by the entity's constitution, I can say that I consider it when working social legislation is said to be created and edited by one who is in charge, and in that sense I see no reason to stress it in particular. The Commission did not stress that either, as it was said, I remember the discussion. You know whose jurisdiction is. There's Mr. Novaković. You know, we've talked in this way very toleranceal, very correct and come up with a text. What I can suggest now, since three possibilities have now been created. I personally think that there is a basic text that is completely discussed and agreed. There are remarks made by Mr. Špirić. The only thing you'd want us to get out of this situation right now is to go back to the basic text adopted by the Commission. I asked a representative of the Commission, I really asked you, I remember about those taxis, what does that mean, how did you formulate it? The only point that can be is that this sentence is intelligently, as suggested, summation in terms of rational, responsible respect, etc. But now it would be writing for the microphone of the new text. That would mean, in some ways, the destruction of our patient work over the past few months. I would ask you to accept what Mr. Šimić said, since I did not expect it to come to some controversy when I asked, when I accepted a significant number of remarks, except for a few that were given by Mr. Špiro. The first option is to really identify ourselves according to the proposal for the text that we have and, of course, set ourselves after that in the second vote according to the proposals made by Mr Šprić. What we accept from Mr Špirić will be embedded in the text, what we do not accept will not be embedded. That's very correct. It means we vote first on the text, on the resolution and vote on Mr Špirić's proposals. I think I see that he agrees with that, too, because at the beginning he supported the Resolution. He said he was late. It'll create conditions normal to get out of this situation. There are no three texts of the proposal. There's one text and please let's do it that way. And I assure you everything that I have supported publicly as a proposal, I will also support when I vote as far as I'm concerned. I suggest that when we vote on the text that I have foreshadowed and then follow up on a statement on the proposals made by Mr Špirić who made it clear. If he's supposed to define them, I agree. But I'd like to ask you once to conclude the debate and vote. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u591	Thank you, Mr Spahić. I must conclude that you have supported among other things my proposal to vote in, only when we vote on Mr Špirić's proposals, we do not have them written, we have to decide on it, or we will wait for the stenograms to come down and write.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u592	I'm asking for a 15-minute break. You'll be offered a parallel...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u593	One moment. munibe, please. You'll be out for the pay phone when you have something to say. I propose a vote on the basic text you received for today's session, and we will also vote on the proposals. Who's to support the resolution? We're voting right now. Have a seat, buddy. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u594	...first he needs remarks, then the text, that we go from one to the next, if there is an integral part of the text... [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u595	Don't make this session an unserious gathering. I apologize for the hard word. We agreed in advance that these resolutions were not businessly precise enough. And that's why we're in a situation right now, I'm going to repeat what I said, as many others have said. The repairs were made at two sessions. Repairs Mr Spahić accepted and installed in the resolution. Corrections are allowed at today's session. It is only not said in which way they are allowed, but it is very logical what Mr. Džaferović said and what we all say, we trust and listen to each other as we speak, but you can't go straight to the text of the existing text orally spoken. We, therefore, have now, to say freely the danger of dealing with these amendments to resolution for half an hour. We can decide that too. That's why I'm asking you again for a little order. I call on us to vote on a resolution that passed the committee debate and two sessions of the House. Who's to vote for an existing resolution? Please, nice. Seven's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it, please? One against. Who's restrained? Three abstentions. That's why Resolution didn't go away. This text did not go through entity-less. He's going for a match. Let's get her to a match. We'll go to the Rules of Procedure and get it or we won't get a resolution. I hope so, because there's no reason not to. 57 Ad.12. The resolution on trust and reconciliation in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer also Mr Ibrahim Spahić) actually took place with this resolution literally the same way as with this previous and Mr Spahić, as well, has installed all the suggestions, as well. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u596	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry it's the end of the session, but we really need to have patience. I think we've put half an hour of patience into the last point, and we'd get to the resolution. But here's the business we have to do when it comes to these documents. So nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that during the session, a document called Resolution cannot be intervened. I therefore propose that the first paragraph, therefore, is again amended, to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the text of the House of Nations, expressing the belief that Bosnia and Herzegovina is founded on the BiH Constitution of civil society, I am introducing the Constitution of BiH, and I am crossing the modern, crossing the belief that Bosnia and Herzegovina is modern. I guess that Bosnia and Herzegovina is based on the Constitution of BiH and the values of civil society, democracy, development and freedom of reconstruction, etc., all this remains. Then point one. - I suggest it writes: - The House of Peoples expresses all governments, supports all government institutions and not government institutions dedicated to fighting for human rights in order to ensure self-sustainable peace, security, development and co-existence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not here they are looking for the truth. The search for the truth, you see, is a physical word that will not be, therefore, one cannot insist on searching or not being looked for. There are legal institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will come to the truth to which the competent authority, etc. I think this part of the sentence is unnecessary in this text as I see it. Point 2. – I suggest that it be deleted because the House of Peoples will bring all legal acts with international standards, declarations, etc. I think it's an obligation to pass laws, I think in the resolution we don't need to draw. Point 3. - The home of the people thinks there is no collective guilt, that it is necessary for all suspects in war crimes, not early criminals. War crimes suspects are tried before the domestic court and the International Tribunal, etc. So the trial of the suspect, and we can't give the verdict that he's a criminal until the court confirms it or rejects it. So I suggest the suspect's word to be inserted. I propose that we delete the fourth final sentence – the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH welcomes the adoption of a law on the protection of minority rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this is a really extra sentence. We can't greet what we've done ourselves, or emphasize what we've done, we realize it's our duty. That's not the attitude of the Declaration. So, listen, the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly welcomes the adoption of the law itself, and we have brought it ourselves. We welcome the code to something that was brought out of this house. So this is an extra sentence. 58 Point 5. – The home of the people will develop insight into the process of building trust through the Commission on constitutional and legal issues, etc. - I suggest that it be deleted, the Constitutional Affairs Commission and its powers are precisely defined by the Rules of Procedure and I do not think any declarations can extend the competence of something that has been defined by an older act. So I'm just talking about improving the text and getting to it, not getting to the text. Point 6. – The Home of the People will in particular inform the Council of Ministers that, in accordance with constitutional competences, they are therefore actively involved in the construction process. I only propose - in accordance with constitutional jurisdiction, and the text remains the same. Then point 7. – It considers the home of the people the basis for strengthening the confidence and reconciliation of freedom, the choice of place of life and the right to return refugees and displaced persons to their homes in full security, I propose the same text, just so that we do not put an ad act here, the basic human right and the choice of place of life. So that people can choose where they want to live, and the undisputed right to return is in line with these principles that Mr Spahić listed here. I support that. Point 8. – The home of the people in the process of reconciliation of building trust is considered particularly important care for young people, not education for young people, care for young people. So all segments of the young again. So, to erase this education, and to insert care, and this remains the same. Point 10. – The home of the people highlights the importance of the role of the media in building trust. That's where you'd put the dot and wipe everything else out. Because we can't prescribe to the media how they should fight for trust and reconciliation. It doesn't make sense. They won't accept it as democratic, because we shouldn't read the lesson of trust and reconciliation from here through this resolution. So that's my concrete contribution to the resolution. I beg you, my same attitude is with this, according to the previous resolution. I am to adopt the resolution and any improvement that is mine, believe me, I am in a position to accept and vote for that improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u597	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? Here you go. Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u598	Dear colleagues, delegates, just one small initiative to the motion of this resolution. It refers to point 7 of the motion for a resolution on reconciliation and trust in Bosnia and Herzegovina that says literally – it considers the home of the people to be the basis for strengthening the trust and reconciliation of refugee returns, displaced persons to their homes in full security, economic perspective and the restoration of common life, with respect for the inds... and the rights to education, culture, religious etc. 59 I suggest that perhaps a little more quality this point of resolution be put to rest, because through this point of the agenda, it might literally not be passed over, so I think that this tragically should only be shortened to a literal respect for human rights and freedoms in accordance with international standards, a general framework agreement and the Constitution of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u599	Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić. Niko one's answering again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u600	Mr. Chairman, as you can see, the text was fundamentally appreciated by all the remarks we've had so far. I must express my satisfaction that even in this, here is the basis why Mr. Goran Turjačanin, our colleague, has exhibited himself in some of the things in which we have singled out some of the rights to define them so that they relate to everything. That's not bad. We could then list Annex 7, Annex 8, Annex 3, etc. But the resolution can't presuppose it to replace everything that's our life. Therefore, not all texts can suddenly change all the relationships that we have, etc. So that's one remark that could easily be accepted, because it implies what's already said in the text. But there is, in the remarks of Mr Špirić, now I see the next situation – first I have made a text that fully fits what we have talked about in this past time. Of course, some formulations don't have to, as you would say, get the best of all participants. If someone sat down again, they'd write a different text. If we had adopted all this as an observation, again at the next session or somewhere else someone could say – wait for me to formulate this differently, let's get right to it. However, I have a proposal for a text. I'd like to ask you to let us know about the text. I respect all the remarks made by Mr Špirić, and I am convinced that these remarks, such as... somewhere they don't co-ordinate with the essential intentions of the resolution, the intensity of the resolution, nothing, in order to say, question what this is, when it comes to war criminals, suspected war criminals. Or when it's said Bosnia and Herzegovina without modernity. I really think of it as a correction. Significant or insignificant, but adjustments that are useful. And in that sense, if we put ourselves back in the position of pleading whether Bosnia and Herzegovina will be Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it will be criminals or suspected criminals, and it refers to a fundamental position to individualise guilt, and does not make a responsible collective or common act, to pretend, as it would say, to some general responsibility. If this is all precisely formulated in one language that this is formulated I would call on you who have made observations that you understand, that I can now accept, or accept something, something to refuse, to reshape the tid., but to make the effective work of this Parliament known about the resolution and that I accept, of course, that everything that needs to be incorporated into that text. I don't mean after a statement of resolution, but if you're going to have one at a time to solve things, I'm sick. Here are the remarks Mr. Špirić has for the second time, what Mr. Šimić suggested last time, you want a break so we can have a moment, so let's talk. But if it's a burden for this home, and if it's looking for another approach, I really would like to not seem to be these resolutions that we're trying to make 60 as a joint document. It's the House of People's resolution, it's not my resolution anymore, it's in the process of building some relationship, some policy, some attitude. And eventually they'll sign it by chairing the House of Peoples and release it to the public on behalf of all of us. I also care about it being a text of all of us. And there's no use being a text against which someone will raise their voice. I hope that for the sake of the first resolution it will be an alignment and that we will finally come up with some correct text. That it won't be to inform us at the next session that the gentlemen of the College disagreed, because this point wasn't there, or this word there. It's not really about anything but building one policy of this home, which is taken over by two large initiatives, and which should probably be built on a policy of society and modern Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I suggest that the chairman suggest a way out of this situation, because I really wouldn't want to determine myself now as an ad hoc on the proposals that are now being made. You suggest a solution, I agree to go to the vote. If you want to install this text before the vote comes, it is also a presidential opportunity to propose a solution, but I would not want you to put me in a position of yourself or me to react as I reacted to the first resolution. I thought there was a good will. It wasn't my unpreparedness, it was the mood that was built through these two three months of working together. Mr. Šimić has indeed, as I have referred to the Council of Ministers' criticism, done everything to be a passing business this and one and another document towards the commissions, according to all the members of the House, all had the opportunity to make remarks and here at the end before the only vote we have a new one. I don't mind. It's a business possibility. I would only ask Mr Špirić to make the next time before the session, examine the papers he receives and not propose things at the session itself, not to burden us. The remarks are correct. A good part of some remarks are excellent, but if I were to work like that... as a delegate, believe me, you couldn't come to a word, and you wouldn't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u601	Thank you very much. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u602	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I have seen these remarks by Nikola Špirić as a good part as well-intentioned. I don't really see any reason why some of the remarks that simply specify and improve the text don't fit in. The first remark that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not stand today can stand, that only Bosnia and Herzegovina stands, because that is what the constitutional name of the state is saying and there is no dispute. This suspect and that, it seems to me, is quite a correct remark. We can't judge people, but they are suspects and surrender, etc. To me, it may be a controversial remark from Mr Špirić at point 2 where the House of Peoples will declare that they will pass a law in accordance with international standards, declarations, etc. I don't see any reason not to stand, because we're gonna do it so let it stand there. 61 This down – The House welcomes the adoption of a law on the protection of the rights of minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think it should stand, that I don't explain why, then we should also welcome the adoption of other laws that we are making, etc. Yes, it is. I mean, Mr Špirić's 5th point remark – through the Constitutional Affairs Commission, doesn't have to stand. By the way of him who is in charge. I don't see anything controversial about it either. And point six. - The people's home will especially oblige the Council of Ministers to participate actively, Špirić says in line with the constitution. And that stands because the Council of Ministers should work in accordance with the Constitution, working in that direction in accordance with the Constitution, its jurisdiction. I can't even see that remark. It's my only point on point 7 of Mr Špirić's remarks, and I would add something, and that's saying: - The people's home, I am now, I'm sorry, Nikola, I'm not sure I'm going to specify what you stated, but the House considers it the basis for strengthening the trust and reconciliation of the return of the refugees, etc. And you added now and places of life, right to the place of life, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u603	No, I added – it considers the home of the people the basis for strengthening trust and reconciliation free choice of place of life, return of refugees and displaced and text as follows.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u604	There after the right to choose places of life, I would add only, but not in other people's property and continue that text further as it stands. And in the end, taking care of young people, instead of education, I think it's a perfectly correct remark, it can be accepted in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u605	Just say it for a minute, please. We have to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u606	Chairman, I am now, I must say pleased with the intervention of our Mr. Ivo Divković, because he has expressed my very will, as a promoter. He expressed his will because we were all working on it together. I mean, I've proposed to pass, but I can't get involved with your consent. I would like to invite you to, after the interventions we have received from Mr Ivo Divković, who I support as a whole, because they are an intervention of one spirit and the mood of the people's home that now with these suggestions, if other delegates also accept what Mr Ivo Divković said as a comment on the motion of this delegation, that it does not turn out that I only accept, or do not accept, that we are voting on 62 texts of the resolution, but in a way that would allow any other delegate to express himself before that statement whether there is anything else to add. Since we've already opened this character of debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u607	Mr. Genjac. A little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u608	I intend only to encourage Mr Spahić, who, in the past resolution, had little to do with the insecure terrain. So I encourage him to accept these remarks as a proponent and to plead on the text with the comments accepted in the way Mr. Divković read those remarks, by still sorting things out in this point 7 – the return of refugees and displaced, etc. Then by priorities. To put it first and the possibility of choosing the right to live, of course not in other people's property. Just order, please respect. One more thing. So, as far as I can see, there's a consensus that's been accepted and by the proponents of this observation that we're in agreement, we can say about the text with the amendments we've accepted. So, just for future practice, I don't think there's as much business uncertainty in this area as we've manifested today. The Rules of Procedure states that amendments can be submitted at any time in writing to the session and there is a misunderstanding. So in writing, when the amendment is submitted, it can be held at any time of the session. Then the amendments are declared. Those who accept it become an integral part of the text, which are not accepted, and ultimately declares the text. I mean for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u609	Thank you very much. Shall we vote, gentlemen? I think so. Who is to adopt the resolution on trust and reconciliation in a way that is systematised by Mr Ivo Divković and with further remarks by Mr Genjac on the 7th point order. Do you mind? Is there any abstention, one abstention? We've adopted a resolution on reconciliation and trust, and we're on the last item of the agenda, which is Ad.13. I must inform you that we have not received any answers to the questions that the Council of Ministers owes us so far. We'll remind them of that, a little more than that. Does anyone want to raise new questions or initiatives? Mr. Ilić, then Mr. Divković and Rodić, Spahić. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u610	Before I ask a new question, I did not see that there is no previous delegate issue in the 4th session minutes, so I would ask, since we have adopted a record that only the chairman has in mind, when you ask the Council of Ministers for an answer, that they owe me the answer to the first question. And now my question for this session would be to have the Council of Ministers or better told by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications answer what does it do to coordinate the activities of the entity health ministries to address the health care of returnees? I think that's the problem. We tried together two funds, namely the Republika Srpska Health Insurance Fund and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Health Insurance Institute, to define the problem. However, as far as I know Canton Sarajevo, Canton Sarajevo's health insurance has not yet accepted the agreement, and I ask that it then intervenes from the level of the Ministry of Civil Affairs so that the agreement will be accepted as soon as possible and allow citizens from both entities to use health care in both entities. And in that agreement, we have defined how we will pay those services to users from one, relationship from another entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u611	Thank you. Mr. Divković
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u612	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions. The first question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and it reads: - How long has it come to the establishment of public corporations at the level of BiH that are part of the Dayton Agreement? First of all, I'm thinking about the electricity, rail transport, etc. So corporations that are very clear are defined in the Dayton Agreement. That's the first question. The second question is my technical question and it's addressed to you to the College. This is a really classic technical question, which is when the College, together with joint services, will book seats in the parking space for the envoys when they come to the Parliament meeting so they can park, since we park in the streets, around because the parking is busy. That's two questions. Thirdly, I would like to stress that my first question has been raised only so far for this speaker from the first session of this House, and this is Parliament's 5th session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u613	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodić. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u614	This is a matter addressed to the Council of Ministers. We adopted the Treaty on Social Security between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia at last session of the People's House. My question concerns, since it is a very complex area of which a good part of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina depends – when the exchange of ratification notes between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will be carried out so that the contract can be applied in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u615	Thank you very much. And Mr. Spahić at the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u616	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope, Mr. Chairman, that my proposals, questions and initiatives will not be amended, ala Nikola Špirić. I hope so, since it's not in the Rules of Procedure. These are just questions. We'll see at the next session. First, I launched an initiative last year at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to formalise the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's request to join Bosnia and Herzegovina in NATO. Please respond from the Kolegijum of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives as long as it has arrived with the process of including the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in NATO. First, they need to examine what's going on with that initiative. The letter left the BiH Parliament. It was signed by Mr Vladimir Šoljić, etc., not Vladimir Šoljić, but Skopljak Pero. I'm sorry. Secondly, as far as the initiative is concerned, it was publicly announced in the face of the most responsible figures of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Sarajevo and who visited us last year. Another question addressed to the European Integration Minister, Mr Mikerović Dragan. In a few days, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be co-chairing the Second Work Table on Economic Policy. I ask Mr. Mikerević to go outside our home and state what kind of programme our countries have in the next six months regarding the project of cooperation on the economic plan of Southeast Europe. I am particularly interested in how he intends to develop this BiH co-operation and what initiatives he has and co-operation with neighbours. Such a programme has never been presented to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the public. I asked the Presidency when he would give the appointment of a Coordinator for the Stability Pact. That's not what we got the answer to either. Since Mr Mikerević, I hope he will be one of those directly responsible for the work of co-chairing this important forum, the working table on economic policy, I would ask that we stick to this initiative in the spirit of yesterday's debate and today's intention to adopt a resolution on economic and social policy in the interests of citizens. It would be good to find out before the start of our mandate, not in the end. So before we take over the co-chairship, we know what kind of program we have. 65 and a third. I said today I'd file an initiative. I just want to make a note of it. So, for the next session, we will prepare a proposal and a law for the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina that corresponds to interests and needs, in this case there is no dispute between modern Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-14-0.u617	Thank you very much. This, according to Mr Mikerević, was also an initiative. Any more questions and initiatives? There isn't. The seat is over. Thank you very much. End of session at 4:10 p.m.
