ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u700	Gentlemen, honourable envoys, dear colleagues, distinguished guests, respected ministers headed by the president, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, dr Lagumdžija, who is today the first time in a session of the House of Peoples. I, apart from welcoming him on our behalf, wish him a successful attitude and this term of office. I particularly welcome a group of students from the Swiss Government's Democratic Alternative Scholarships, who will follow our work and I hope they will have any of that and learn. I hereby open the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm reporting to you that we have a quorum. He's gone, I repeat, so we have a quorum, there's only one delegate gone. Therefore, we can work and make full decisions, and here I remind you that, for today's session, you have received a proposal for the agenda ahead of you. Of course, in business time. Anybody want to talk about the proposed agenda? Make a proposal for a change. We've already got two applications. We've got four applications. The first is Mr. Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u701	Mr. Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests, I suggest we take item 11 off the agenda, because the Commission received a report from the Audit Office, made a plan to consider this report, which should be completed at the 9th month, and only then will it be able to give a good opinion on these reports and I propose that the reports be considered at that time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u702	Thank you. Next is Mr. Tokić and Mr. Ilić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u703	The chairman, gentlemen of the envoys, delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I, having no other option, came forward to express my dissatisfaction, did not finish the defacto 6th session, as the 6th session was launched and suspended at the debate on election laws. I think this topic is very current and I think it is opportunised to avoid this topic at a time when it represents both the interest of this home and of all BiH institutions in the context of BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. At the same time, I would also react to the proposal of the esteemed envoy Ivanković in a way that 2 would disagree that item 11 should be removed from the agenda simply because it is point 11. The report on the audit carried out by the ministry of civil affairs, the foreign ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has already become a topic in public debate in the media. It would be very embarrassing for this home to let that be discussed on television. I watched Mr. Reviser who said he ended it all up giving it to the Parliamentary Assembly, he commented on the report on TV. At the same time, several nations have in a certain way manipulated the fact that it is avoided that it is being discussed for certain political reasons. I see no reason for today's envoys and delegates to discuss it, if they are to discuss it again in September. Dkale, you are strongly opposed to taking down this item of the agenda, because I don't like the practice of discussing these materials outside this home, which is, defacto, the only one in charge of discussing these issues. If necessary, I also appreciate Mr Ivanković's motivation, if we need to discuss it twice, but today I would never be in order to remove this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u704	Thank you, Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u705	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I suggest that the 5th agenda item be removed from today's session, because it is not a respected business deadline of 30 days between the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Foreign and Trade Policy Commission, so it would not be a good idea to violate the Rules of Procedure. We haven't done this before, and I suggest that the second reading be done at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u706	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, I propose that points 7.8 and 9 of the Bill on the Establishment and Registration of the Institutions and Association of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment and Registration of BiH institutions and associations, the Proposal for a Law on Property of BiH and the Law on the Foundations of Real Estates in BiH are not discussed today, or downloaded from the agenda, given that the legislator of these laws is an MP of the House of Representatives, Mr Muhamed Begović, and that it would be logical to discuss these laws firstly the House of Representatives and take up his position as a House of Representatives, and only then to go to the House of Peoples. I resent the College, which put in general these laws in the draft agenda, as well as the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which gave its own court in the first place, before it passed the House of Representatives procedure. Given that there are very often drafts of the law on the agenda, or Council of Ministers or MPs from another home, before they go through the procedure of the House of Representatives, and given that the House of Representatives has made it clear to its Rules of Procedure that they are the first to discuss the laws and then go to the House of Peoples, I propose one conclusion, which is the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will, in the legislative procedure prescribed by its rules of procedure, only take the proposals that have passed the procedure before the House of Representatives, or adopted by the Parliamentary House of BiH. I ask Mr. Chairman to put this conclusion to the vote. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u707	Thank you very much. Whoever comes forward, it's the agenda. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u708	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, representatives of the press, radio and television and representatives of the Democratic Initiative of Students, I am pleased that you have the opportunity to follow one important and delicate address regarding the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Since the debate on the draft agenda is in line with our rules of procedure, I would like to say as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the proposal to remove the draft law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce, where the proposal of the Council of Ministers in the second reading is removed from the agenda and to postpone the fact that it is not time for the second commission to express itself externally and to determine according to this job. Second, for the sake of attitude, to give one interpretation of counterpart Novaković in relation to points 7.8 and 9. Law on the establishment and registration of BiH institutions and organisations, Proposal for a Law on Property, Proposal for the Foundations of Real Estate Traffic in BiH, MP Muhamed Begović, who is, by the way, a real MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Now regarding these two positions we have heard from our colleagues, or representatives of these committees, representatives of this commission as well as, of course, fellow delegates. Firstly, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH, I would like to say that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not regulated to create a space among the commissions that the commission would use for this type of search for a solution, but rather it is a time to which it can be expressed or not express an opinion. Therefore, we have no reason, as the House of Peoples, that I can certainly say, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to remove point 5 of the proposal of the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, which has passed a complete procedure in this Parliament and could not have come into the second reading phase that this procedure is not satisfied, because either the Foreign Trade Commission would have stopped it or would have stopped it from the College or the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission would have said that it was incorrectly treating Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Therefore, Mr. Šimić and the College could not have suggested this unless there was a second reading phase. I understand the motives for further molaring the Commission on Foreign Trade and Foreign Political Relations of Mr Ilić and I understand the need to further develop this process, but in the phase of the second reading, I recall there are all the assumptions of the business that the Commission has both stated and determined, and when the 5th Commission comes is part of the work of the formal parliament can be ambushed if there is something to add to this document, but in the second reading phase, this commission has no reason to ask to be removed from the agenda, because there is no obstacle, since we are in full composition, as far as I can see, that the Commission is sitting before this point of the agenda and to say its opinion if there is anything new to say, which is decisive for us when we are making a statement of the law. 4 I remind you, that a statement in the second reading means the adoption of the law. The key to BiH's interest is a solid partnership with the international community, without an external trade chamber it cannot do so, other of our audit activities, etc. It is not wise, in my opinion, to delay a point that has been led to a decision by all formal legal procedures. As for point 5, I think we should stay on the agenda to keep this point both for business reasons, on the one hand, and on the other hand, and on the real responsibility of ours, resulting from June 2000 to June 2001. So, exactly one year, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not responded to the BiH presidency's conclusion. After the presidency's decision, an external trade chamber is formed and after the proposal to form a law. So we are late as Parliament for a year in relation to the BiH presidency's position. So much for that. As regards points 7.8 and 9, as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I would like to state, as I would say, in the archival documentation, when I assumed the responsibility of the President of the Commission from Mr Sejfudin Tokić, these laws were already as well, approved by two basiss, that the Proposer is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, means he has the right to propose law and secondly, that he has constitutional basis for these laws and that fact has passed, too, the House of Peoples of BiH and the House of People of BiH and the Chairman Mr Šimić, on this basis, referred us to a review of the Commission and we are obliged to each document that the College and the chairman of the Council to determine ourselves. Is this not in line with some ideas, that the Rules of Procedure should be amended, we held a debate yesterday on the Constitutional-First Commission, that it is not in line with some possible interests of political, compromises, etc., that is the second question, but it is certainly in line with the Rules of Procedure and the integrity of the Chairman-in-Office, Mr Šimić, who referred us to the Constitutional-First Commission and the procedure that is satisfied, obliges the Commission to act on what the Rules of Procedure tells it to do. If we were to violate it, we would question the BiH House of Peoples and question the role of the chairman, or the Kolegijum. If the Commission were to reject what it had sent to the chairman, the Commission would have put itself in a position to block the functions of the House of Peoples, the Commission cannot do so. You know very well that the laws proposed during the last term of office cannot be divided into laws in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Every MP, so concluded by the House of People and the House of Representatives, needs to regulate that matter in the way it is said. If there is no MP who gave that initiative in the last term, then the appropriate MP from both homes takes the initiative and he nominates it. It was done by Mr. Tokić with his laws, because he was no longer an MP in the House of Representatives but in the House of Peoples, it was not questionable. Which would have been on any other case. I did it as you know, and you respected it. The integrity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is that there are two equal homes and that it is not able to say by its relations that it will come fully into a position called the legal area or that these things should be clarified in the new proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and home competencies. So, if we take these points off the agenda today, they must, of course, be accepted as laws as proposals, we violate the principles that applied to Mr. Tokić and Mr. Spahić. What the second principle would apply to 5 others, any MP in the BiH Parliament. If the BiH Parliamentary Assembly College says, in the beginning, that everyone should take the obligation, if there is no MP from any home and thus open a political process in the home, then we must respect it in any case. If he changes his practice to one MP, he must change his practice towards everyone and must ask the question of changing his rules of procedure and his way of handling this high house, as well as his relationship with another home. Since Mr Novaković has opened, indeed, serious questions, I think that she can only get rid of the moment when the matter of a business nature is raised, and that is the procedure that we will all, in normal procedure, as it says to the Rules of Procedure, and we will change those attitudes, and also those members and clarify the positions, but we will change the practice of one MP and allow practice to other MPs, simply as an example in legal practice and doing at home one or the other is wrong. Secondly, to apply a statement, criticism to the College or to the Constitutional and Legal Committee because the Rules of Procedure do not respond in the opinion of one MP or delegate on what should be done is impossible. It is only possible to follow the Rules of Procedure, and if we do not like something in the Rules of Procedure, that Rules of Procedure must be amended. That's what I want to say. I know that there will be controversy about this, I would just like to warn you, it is not my place to interpret Mr. Novaković's views and I also told Mr. Špirić yesterday at a meeting, anything that changes in the Rules of Procedure, with the House of Peoples, I accept as a procedure in the Commission in the House of Peoples, but to change him from opportunity to opportunity, it cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u709	Let's do the replica, then we'll go out.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u710	It seems to me that at one of the last sessions I said that when it comes to the debate on the agenda that, then I expect my interpretation, or my question and its interpretation, I expect from the chairman or president of the commission if it concerns the commission. So, indeed, with all due respect to Mr Spahić's attempt to explain to me in one longer track of what I needed and what I didn't do, it's really unnecessary for me at this point. I came out with a very clear proposal for a conclusion and it would be correct to vote on that conclusion. If the vote is reached, then it is understood that these points cannot be on the agenda. If the conclusion fails, then we will vote on these points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u711	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Of course, we're not running away from it, I'm not personally running away from it or the College to make a few small mistakes, not to make a crumb. So maybe it wasn't necessary to open this debate, because the College has a harmonised attitude and I don't see any reason not to be here supported. Our Rules of Procedure, as well as the President of the Constitutional and First Commission, has somehow made an implicit offer in some of his 6 solutions not sufficiently precise. So, I'm looking for a formulation, I'm not gonna say it's not accurate, but somewhere it's not accurate enough, it can even be interpreted a little bit double. We, as you can see, offered the agenda, but in the final preparation of the session, the College stood at the point of view that points 7.8 and 9. prolonged, i.e. We pull out of the agenda until the House of Representatives dissipates them. I thank Mr. Begović for coming to us, but I think that's article 76 where we talk about the promoters etc. I think in this second preparation, we have finally interpreted the session as better to be closer to the rule or if you want to be absolutely precise in the Rules of Procedure to wait for the House of Representatives to discuss Mr. Begović, and then to accept the discussion of the laws. So please, let's not open a discussion about this. As for Mr. Ilić's proposal and 30 days, that's again, we'll have to do something in the Rules of Procedure, if nothing else, to say otherwise. We at the College Mr. Tokić and I have the same interpretation over and over again, Mr. Špirić sometimes joins us, sometimes thinks differently, I don't mean this fellow Špirić anything bad to say, those 30 days are controversial. I wouldn't be burdening you with this right now, so I don't think it's problematic today, and it shouldn't be problematic, and I suggest that, in the context of the debate on the agenda, we don't adopt any conclusions, and I pray that we don't offer a proposal for conclusions within the agenda, but rather we stay at the agenda points, and we can find places for discussion and principle and propose a special agenda point, not to draw conclusions within the agenda. Finally, I want to say something that my colleague Tokić was saying about the 6th session. Mr. Tokić didn't even suggest that we continue the sixth session now, but we talked about it on two occasions at the College. The point is, Mr. Špirić is mine, and I am businessly convinced so that it is not specified that it must continue the 6th and finish the 6th and start the 7th. Our proposal, therefore, is my proposal, which was supported by Mr Špirić, that we end the 6th session when we discuss the electoral law, and he will definitely show up on the agenda very quickly, or when he does, the same Ghanaian will continue the 6th session, and then we will open a session that is in order and then finish the work on the electoral law, because in the 6th session we only have election law and parliamentary questions left, so I ask you to accept it and finally, I propose another item of the agenda. We agreed at the College to make it useful. We will see which, because it will be in order, but it is now the last, before answering the envoy's questions, would be one review of international co-operation with the focus on staying a delegation in Strasbourg. Please accept that, it will be one brief piece of information. If you don't mind, we'll continue our work. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u712	Dear colleagues, respected guests, as is known for the College's Rules of Procedure, are proposing the agenda. The college schedules the sessions, the porch schedules, of course schedules the session extensions. A little over a month ago, we interrupted the session. I was against the interruption, the session was interrupted by majority votes, arguing that it would take about ten days for the issues to be resolved and to continue and agree. We have a member of the College who expunges remarks on the account of himself, some members of the College who explain that the next session can be scheduled before the previous session is completed, which is true. However, it is not enough for MPs to visit the Rules of Procedure, it is simply true and fact. Members need to be explained 7 by the College for which no session is scheduled in a month. That's the question that interests the House of Peoples. When we broke up last session, our delegation just had time to get to Strasbourg. It seems to me that one of the reasons for the session's interruption was that, but when they arrived in Strasbourg and were already in Strasbourg, and what kind of information was published in the media about broad senses and conversations that were accompanied by broad smiles in Strasbourg, I don't think it's enough for this to give additional brief information about such an important event. The event is BiH's admission to the Council of Europe and the issue of electoral law. For the past month, it has been spent in a way that the electoral law in the Parliamentary Assembly has not spoken a word, at least I do not know. As far as I've learned from the means of information, as an MP in the House of Nations, I haven't had any other opportunity to find out, some time has been given until September 1st. Whether or not the next month will be spent in the same way, whether or not the possibility and the chance will be gambled in that way, that is a legitimate question. Therefore, I propose a response from the College, which is not already scheduled to continue the session and the second proposal for a special item of the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe on all issues discussed and what is agreed at the plenary session by representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and our delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u713	Thank you. I apologize to Mr Rodić, he used to ask for a word, I forgot it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u714	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, colleagues from the House of Peoples. My intervention on the agenda refers to item 10th is a requirement to consider the laws under emergency procedure. In principle, I think, and I will always advocate in this house that we do nothing on an emergency procedure, no matter how significant it is, no matter how much it is conditioned by certain deadlines. We all got these materials a month ago and I just don't understand what emergency means in this whole procedure. If it was urgent, it could have been one of the previous presidents and then we're considering it, and this is how I think that because of the quality of the legal projects, most of the laws should be passed by regular procedure. What I particularly think is significant, I want to look back at the electoral law and ask the question here and the chairman, I stopped, I want to wait, because I want to refer the question to the chairman for one simple reason, which, as I recall, when we interrupted the 6th session, we said we were going to get in line. I'm asking the question here, who agrees on the electoral law? For all I know, our five delegates at the Serbian People's Club from five different parties, no one agrees with us. I'd like to know the answer so that we can keep working and get to the electoral law, and finally I want to propose something else, that today at this session we adopt the conclusion that practically our work in August is not interrupted, but simply that we work in those terms that we do so far. So, sessions to be the third week of the month, and Parliament's 4 maintenance, thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u715	Thank you, we'll discuss this at the end of the session about the work ahead of us. Anybody else want to talk about the agenda. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u716	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to look back, it seems to me that the chairman has failed to state the position of the College on the 11th agenda. This is the report on the audit carried out by the Audit Office. The president of the Budget Commission and the Administrative Commission of this House, Mr Ivanković, has suggested that this item be removed from the agenda. I would like to say that, as a member of this Commission, as the second Vice-President of the Commission, I support the proposal, it is, in fact, the Commission's position, the Administrative Commission and the Budget Commission, from the session of the Commission. I don't think Mr. Ivanković said that. These reports are, of course, also available to Parliament, available to the public, there is nothing to hide from the public, nothing to hide from the public, I have not come out for a pay phone because of it at all, but I want to tell you that we, as the committee responsible for this House, have joined, in one way, which has not been practiced in parliamentary work so far. Namely, with the help of our colleague from the Norwegian Parliament, this commission and the House of Representatives committee worked here this month on these reports, then again held meetings of the commission, were referred to the relevant questions to the relevant ministries concerning the report itself, waiting for answers and, of course, the commission will have made its work plan according to these reports and will submit a detailed report to Parliament after it has completed its work. So I don't think it's right for Dom to discuss these materials before this commission shows up on the same materials. That is, therefore, the meaning of what Mr Ivanković said. I, therefore, join myself with this argument. As for the other remarks that relate to the removal of certain points of the agenda, I am a little surprised that the College subsequently decided to point 7.8 and 9. With an explanation as to how you said the chairman today was off the agenda. It is nesporan that the Rules of Procedure of our home are not prescribed which home will rather consider certain laws. It is not at all a condition that, if the motionary is an MP from the House of Representatives, that the law be primarily or before this home considered in the House of Representatives and vice versa. An MP or a delegate when submitting a bill, he has no ambition to pass the law only in his home, because it is not the law if he did not pass in another home. Both homes are equal and anyone who proposes the law has an ambition to be the law one day and the condition to be the law is that they both accept it at home. In doing so now some order which is not based on the acts of this House, in the end or on the Constitution, because both homes are equal with their specific special powers, I don't think it's right. I object to these points being removed from the agenda. That's what I was going to say, regarding this point 11th point 7.8th and 9. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u717	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, distinguished fellow delegates, I would like to say that the College has simply defined this agenda, taking care of the Rules of Procedure. It's not our rules of procedure to that end, it doesn't give us the opportunity to interpret that width, as some people want to say. I think that we in the College have tried our one true way out of this situation, that the debate, concerning points 7.8 and 9 is postponed until the House of Representatives is declared in which Mr. Begović is present. I will now tell you that article 76 says the bill can be presented by any envoy, commission at home, House of Representatives, as well as by the BiH Presidency and by the Council of Ministers of BiH within their work. It doesn't make sense. The Rules of Procedure do not allow an MP from the first home to conduct a procedure for the reputable MPs of the House of Representatives. So we didn't say we wouldn't, we didn't want to discuss it, we wanted to wait for the second reading to wait for the House of Representatives' statement. I ask that this is exactly how it is interpreted, not by running away from the debate, not by demeaning the proposal, not by saying that it is not a constitutional proposal, that there is no constitutional basis, but simply by respecting the procedure of our own rules of procedure. So, I ask you, just in that sense, to realize that we are not running away from the debate but to not give first thing tomorrow to those who can say that we do not respect our own rules of procedure. This is about points 7.8 and 9, and I think that the debate should end in a way that we can get to the bottom of all the proposals and initiatives and get to the agenda that we're going to be working on. As for the permanent election law, the question was addressed to the College. I think it would be good this time, if the consultations were to last, not to politicize, so politicized a legal project. I don't think that's good. If those who voted against the permanent electoral law are aware that they have done damage to the BiH state, we can at the same time declare the Council of Ministers' proposal, because we have not declared ourselves, but I would rather not politicise it. What bothers me is that, a month and a few days since the interruption of our session, the way I might want to. Now, if it takes the Federation's parties a month and ten days to agree or a month and a half, I'm afraid there will be little time to put on extra pressure, not to talk or agree with other parliamentary structures to get to the permanent electoral law. So, I'm afraid, but he wants me to believe that we're going to adopt a permanent electoral law in the follow-up of the 6th session, and I think it would be good, above all, to create conditions for the permanent electoral law to be passed. When we create these conditions, I think the debate will be brief. Whether it will be done today or in two days is less important, but what matters is that every day it should work 18 hours or 20 hours to create conditions for the permanent electoral law to be passed. A permanent electoral law must not be used for storytelling. I think the citizens of BiH are tired of talking about MPs and political structures. They need a permanent electoral law. That's why I'm calling for consultations, arrangements to get to the permanent electoral law. I've had so much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u718	I thank Mr. Špirić. Tokić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u719	When I expressed my disdain for which the 6th session did not continue, I really had no intention of opening debates on the issue, but my discussion of fellow Špirić offered me simply to see a few contradictions. In fact, Mr Špirić, on the one hand, insists that the electoral law is passed as soon as possible, and that we should continue the 6th session, where they are in the procedure of three texts of the electoral law and where, in principle, only in this House and the House of Representatives can there be a consensus on the provisions of the electoral law. Secondly, speaking entirely, I think in principle about the need to keep home authorities out of the loop. You understand the bill, initiated by honourable MP Begović, and immediately after that, say it was voted, as some voted against this election law. I don't know that there was at all a statement in this house about the election law, and what I was looking for at the beginning, and now I'm standing in that position, it's wrong, exactly because of these manipulations don't continue the 6th session, because by continuing the 6th session, I think we'd be in a position to get to the electoral law. Without a continuation of the 6th session, we simply cannot expect other initiatives at this time, except for those three, four initiatives that exist, related to the electoral law. At the same time, I would like here on some requirements to be removed from the agenda of the emergency hearing, indeed, again to the Rules of Procedure, we have to put the Rules of Procedure on the agenda and the House will declare whether it accepts the procedure, so it was actually a respected colleague Rodić who was first on the point to come. I urge us to adopt these agenda points and move on to a statement on the agenda, because I'm afraid we're already on our way to a debate about something, by really asking for the 6th session to be organised immediately after the 7th session, because now we can't just procedurally fall into that trap, and that's my appeal to the chairman of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u720	I thank my colleague Tokić. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u721	Just to react to the false assumption, which I believe Mr Špirić, who, I have the impression, had the ambition to answer some of my questions. Mr. Špirić, if he was answering as an MP, I didn't ask for an answer. I asked for an answer from my colleagues. So, I asked the College for an answer and not to ask whether it should be politicised or not, whether it should be consulted or not, but I asked the College for an answer for which it was not scheduled to proceed with the previous session, when all the conditions exist in business etc. I ask the College for an answer for an unannounced continuation of the session, when all conditions have long been met. To Mr Špirić's answers that I don't need to politicise, and then in the story, in an extremely inappropriate way, to politicize everything together, I don't need you, I don't need those answers, especially not Špirić as MPs, I'm looking for an answer from the College. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u722	Ladies and gentlemen, I really had no intention of plowing, whether someone in my answer is recognized or not, otherwise I was direct enough in all communications and I have no reason to tell a general story to be recognized. So, I had no intention of answering Mr. Genjac as a member of the College or as a delegate. Of course, with the greatest part of Mr. Genjac's discussion, he might agree if someone asked me personally, but what I want to say is that, if there is a question of communication, is there a conversation in the College about the permanent electoral law, I have to say that we haven't discussed the permanent electoral law. You know there's a break in last week's session to find a time for consultations and a deal. Whenever they're looking for a break, they let me know that they've made a deal, they've got me to go on. Not now, if it's not mature time, if there's no such maturity. Here I am for the 6th session to continue immediately, immediately, in the same second. No problem at all, but the College makes a decision by consensus. I'm a man who respects reality. If anyone in the College says, Mr. Spy, I don't think they're mature terms, there's me on that concept in order to get to the law. But what, I suppose now, is going to open today's debate at a time when BiH should be admitted to the Council of Europe, not ready enough to show yet another complete indifference, related to the permanent electoral law. I guess someone's working on, someone's making arrangements, that in August we'll get to the permanent electoral code. So my debate was only in that sense. If you think it's a mature time, there's no problem. I was ready last time to vote for a permanent election law and today I'm ready and tomorrow I'm ready, but let those who have asked for time, extra time to agree, to give them that time. Here's if they say it's in two days-- five days, I'm ready, and it wasn't my intention to answer politics, but to plead. I think every proposal is valid here. Whoever gets most of it, we'll discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u723	I thank my fellow Špirić. I don't think there's any more suggestions on the agenda. We're going to move gradually into the predicate statement, and I think I'm the only one in charge of Mr. Genjac's constant answers. One's easier. If you have set this up, which is why the College has not declared itself on point 11, which is why Mr Ivanković suggested to take off, we simply placed that item on the agenda and now we will confirm it or we will not. We will vote on Mr Ivanković's proposal and we will vote first after he proposed it. As for the electoral law, I let it go, because I had no opportunity for a democratic or a business to break it up. If you're looking for my qualification, and you're not looking for it, I'm going to say it, however, a completely unnecessary debate. I'm sorry that one of these tall, and this important home has been running an unnecessary debate for an hour. I will remind you that with great enthusiasm, the whole of BiH, a month ago, we entered the procedure for the adoption of the electoral law and it ended as it ended. We interrupted the sixth session, all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We'll continue it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Don't ask me as chairor or the College to put on the agenda something I know for sure that this country isn't ready today and you all know it very well and I respect every attitude that goes in the direction of showing 12 of its political and political commitment and my concern for this country, but none of you, of course, as a wise man will say it, and I have to do it as chairman that there are no conditions for us to discuss the electoral law at all. I ask that you no longer call me and remind me. The 6th session will continue when the conditions are met, and the Rules of Procedure are not interrupted by opening the 7th and if we open another one before it. Thank you very much. We're going to make a statement on the proposals made here. The first is Mr Ivanković's proposal to remove the item from the agenda, the Commission's proposal, Mr Džaferović. Which is to remove this point from the agenda. Who's in, the proposal was to get off the agenda? - Ten for who's against it? 3 against the abstentions, there will be one. There should be one abstention. We're one voice short. Ibro out. So that's where we take off the dot and then when we adopt the agenda, we'll just leave it out. I think the next order was Mr. Ilić if I'm not mistaken for item 5 that no business conditions have been achieved, because it hasn't been 30 days between the commission and so on. We are, the College has said its position on this. We have established the point and we think that the business procedure is correct and, of course, we suggest that this point remain, but Mr Ilić has suggested that it be removed and I call on us to vote on it. Who is it to support Mr. Ilić's proposal, that's to remove item 5 from the agenda? - 3 Who's against taking item 5 off the agenda? - 8 against the abstentions - 2 I konstatirati that it is not removed that it remains. The following proposal was made by Mr. Novaković, a proposal from the College, you heard with reasons. We won't repeat them so that points 7.8 and 9 today don't fit into the agenda for the reasons you've heard. Who's to get off the agenda? - 9 for who's against it? – 3 abstentions – Points 7.8 and 9. are removed from the agenda and we have an emergency procedure Mr Rodić. It's okay. That when we come to every point then we plead and we have a further proposal from the College that I have made to, as a last resort point, that is also in line with Mr Genjac's proposal to offer information on international cooperation with a consistent focus on visiting Strasbourg. You agree with that? Who's in? We're only voting on this, and we can formulate your point that way. Who's to put on a new one? - 11 Who's against it? – there are no abstentions – 2 You continue to insist Mr. Genjac enter your point. Be nice and dictate it into a microphone. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u724	Of course I wouldn't have complicated further, I didn't react to the remarks that there was no unnecessary debate about the electoral law and that the conditions had not been met. I still believe the terms of the 6th session have been met, but we'll do it later. So my proposal is to make a special item of the agenda Report of the Council of Europe Delegation with the last plenary session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u725	Thank you very much. Who's to be today, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u726	Mr. Chairman, before I plead, I have the impression that a little confusion is getting into all this. We've now come to terms with something that's the same, just maybe not the same formulation. Basically, we don't say the same thing twice. We can agree that the formulations, I'll do what they say in person so that the formulation of that item of the agenda that we've now declared will be as Mr. Genjac says and that we can finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u727	I understand you very much, Mr. Divković, but I don't have a choice, if the representative is asking, it's mine to give him a chance. Mr. Tokić's clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u728	Having a lot of understanding for, I won't use another term, the tenacity of my fellow Genjac. I would just point out that at this point, it is understood that information, the Commission's work report, or the delegation that was in Strasbourg, is given, by reminding you that this agenda item has not passed the commission phase. So, in principle, this point should be discussed first by the Commission for Foreign Policy, so that the Commission appears in a certain way with its suggestions, but I see no reason, especially on Mr Genjac's anxiety about international co-operation, to discuss, at this point in the agenda, under a) a defacto report on the participation of the Delegation in Strasbourg and under b) on other aspects of international co-operation, because this is the topic, the favorite topic of my fellow Genjac, so I believe that it will have a lot of discussions. So, I don't see, really, the reason to include a special item of the agenda, since we've already defined this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u729	Mr. Tokić doesn't really interest me as a psychoanalyst. He has a terrible need, I guess from his subconscious that he uses psychoanalytic terms, I don't know why. That's not appropriate, among other things, he's a pharmacist. He's not qualified for that. But I am interested in Mr Tokić, exclusively, as a member of the College and 14 as a member of the College, asking him to answer my remarks and to comply with the Rules of Procedure and to fulfil his obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u730	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Let me ask you a question. Do you agree with the formulation Mr. Tokić offered? You disagree. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u731	Mr. Divković asked for clarifications, and now it's really not clear to me what we should vote for anymore. I voted in favour of this report, now voting again for this, whether I am now, whether I will find myself in some position that I voted for two different and I think I'm up for one report. I really don't see any reason. Okay, that's the proposal thing. I don't have it, I'm not getting into it. I'd like to, I came out to say that I suggested and that the House plead one conclusion, since, in the context of the agenda, I wish we couldn't make a statement on the conclusions, then I suggest that the agenda be complemented by this conclusion with the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u732	We have a proposal - initiatives. When there are questions and initiatives, be kind and call me when they are. Mr. Ilić, please, we'll move quickly to work, I remind you. We made a statement. We didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u733	Mr. Chairman, I am really asking, yesterday at the Commission for Free and Trade Policy, we have concluded that all the reports of the parliamentary delegations to the Commission first pass. I've got this report now. I can't say anything about him because I don't have time to read. On the contrary, I'm asking for an hour's break to read this, or for the Commission to meet. I don't think it's a good thing we're doing this. We're asking to create a state of emergency for serious labor. We also have some work programme that this commission has done, and I guess it should respect that work programme, but it's not possible if we don't get co-operation from both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and the College of the House and the delegations. So, I ask that, in future, every report of parliamentary delegations and everything concerning the Commission's competence be passed first through the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u734	Thank you very much. I am obliged to put Mr Genjac's proposal to the vote, which is a report by the Council of Europe delegation. Isn't that right, Mr. Genjac? Who is it that we should put as the last point before questions and initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u735	I fully agree with colleagues who think we have already voted to have information from international delegations, that is correct. My proposal has the intensities to single out a special point of the Council of Europe delegation, because it is a particularly important issue that has been discussed there. So, to be informative of international delegations and to be a special point to the Council of Europe, so I insist and suggest that it be.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u736	Thank you very much. I call on us to vote on who it is so that as a special point, there will be a report from the delegation to the Council of Europe. Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u737	Intervention. I have to do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u738	You must, if I give you my word. But I'll give you as president of the club, but you'd have to quote a member and explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u739	The chairman, please, have we voted already, I would say, on the last item of the agenda a moment ago, or are we voting again on the same point. Yeah, I know what this is about. It's full of...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u740	I can't help you if you don't understand what this is about. Please come to your seat.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u741	The Croatian MPs' club, through the chairmanship, and you are a member of the club as chairman, raises the question, whether the pre-last item of the agenda remains, the item of the agenda that we have voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u742	Comrade Divković, that's where we voted and she stays. I've already put it to the vote, and I've given you my word, on my cheek, which you would say, I apologize for the immediate formulation. I call on you to be serious and then to vote on Dr. Genjac's proposal. Who's that, please? - 3 Who's against putting this as a special point? - Who's restrained? I find that the proposal has not received the necessary majority and that we will discuss it within the last point. Thank you very much. I'll read you the agenda. I'm asking my colleagues from my friends to help me if I make a mistake. 16 So, after all the interventions, let them, allow respected colleagues. Do you need a break? You don't have to. Let us read the agenda because of the stenogram, which we are after all interventions, we will hopefully adopt. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law on the holidays of BiH – Proposer Sejfudin Tokić – Second reading; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading; 4. Proposal for a Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading; 5. Proposal for a Law on the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading; 6. Proposal for a competition law – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – first reading; 7. Requests for an examination of the law by a hasty procedure, Article 99. Rules of Procedure under: a), b), c), d) and e) we will discuss this when each point comes to the agenda; 8. Information on the organisation and staff situation in the DKP network – BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs – applicant of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; 9. Information on the situation in the field of immigration and asylum - the applicant of the Council of Ministers; 10. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2000 – applicant of the Central Bank; 11. Giving consent to ratifications (a) Agreement between BiH and Romania on Unorthodox Investment Protection – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; (b) Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia – the BiH Presidency; (c) Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the way of use and maintenance of the Bihac common railway – Knin and the approval of supervision by state border bodies – the BiH presidency d) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation and protection against natural and civilian disasters – Proposed by the BiH Presidency) Agreement establishing an interstate council for co-operation between BiH and the SRJ – BiH Presidency; f) Treaty establishing border crossings between BiH and Croatia – BiH 12. Information on international cooperation, with a focus on staying our delegation in Strasbourg; 13. Answer the envoy's questions and initiatives. I'm asking you now to vote on the full agenda. Who's to adopt a agenda like this? - Thank you very much. Who's against it? - Not against the abstentions? - We unanimously adopted the agenda. 17 I thank you and we move on to the first point of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of prisoners from the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Any objections to the minutes? There isn't. Who's to adopt the prisoner, what's he offered? Who's against the record? The abstentions – no. Also, the record was unanimously adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The proposal for a law on the holidays of BiH – is proposed by Ambassador Sejfudin Tokić – we have another reading Anyone Want to speak? Proposer. He does.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u743	The chairman, gentlemen of the envoys - delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, is in second reading. It's been in the process for a long time. The law aimed to provide four holidays as a holiday that will be accepted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and in a certain way affirm the value of these holidays on the entire territory of our country. In this context they were selected on November 25th as ZAVNOBIH's day, with such a name, primarily a day to be celebrated as the day of anti-fascism, given the historical significance of that session. Then, on November 21st, as the day of the conclusion of the General Framework Peace Agreement, I also think it represents a value for all peoples and both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities and, of course, January 1st and 2nd as the New Year and May 1st as an international labour holiday. Bosnia and Herzegovina has not regulated the holidays by its law so far. The Council of Ministers has so far failed to come up with its initiative, in coordination with the procedure of this law, one information has appeared, that the Council of Ministers will come out with the whole law, however, the name of the text of the law is the law on holidays and holidays. The colleagues who were in the earlier meetings of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples will remember that the Parliamentary Assembly has operated that the holidays as religious holidays – defined by sacred books, should not be determined by God's messages or given any priority from the House of Representatives. In that sense, I believe that this law, just because there are no religious holidays, listed, defined, represents, has a certain value. In the very procedure of considering this law, in the first reading, this law was adopted in this high house with a single suggestion that came from the delegates Mr Nikola Špirić, who referred to the 25th November ZAVNOBIH Day as a holiday at BiH level and with an explanation that otherwise, the proposed amount of holidays is too large. On occasion, it was suggested that four holidays for BiH level were too many holidays rather than that it should go with three. For known reasons, without the need to elaborate, believing that there is a general mood among citizens and peoples that ZLABIH, it is eventually celebrated as a day, and affirmed as a value on BiH's entire territory. I, as Proposer 18, did not accept this amendment and neither did the Constitutional and Legal Commission, in its consideration, accept this amendment to Mr Špirić, so that today in the second reading, in accordance with the procedure, this high house should be made known about this law in the text that you received, in the original text, since the deadlines for the new amendments, of course, and the amendment of Nikola Špirić before this text itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u744	I thank Mr. Tokić. Mr. Špirić, I report to you he must travel to Banja Luka, go to the funeral, he would not defend his amendments, but you have them all written. If no one wants to talk or if they want to, I won't stop. We are left to declare Mr Špirić's amendments. When it comes to accepting, you want to talk. You can, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u745	Since the law is in the second reading and we have amendments, I would beg for the compromise of fellow delegates, because if we want to get to the law, then I think we should accept the amendment. Indeed, everyone's right to consider this or that historic event in the past a state holiday. As for our immediate past, which was in the Second World War, I could be a peaceful soul to represent, as a Partizan child, that on July 27th, the day of BiH's uprising, for me a state holiday and so could go indefinitely. I think these three holidays that are proposed by Mr Špirić are quite enough, along with those numerous entity holidays, so for God's sakes, if we're going to keep celebrating. Each country has a single national holiday. France July 14th, USA July 4th, etc. So, please accept the compromise, otherwise, immediately to tell you that Serbian MPs, or delegates, will not vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u746	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u747	Well, we've organized several discussions, public debates and consultations and talks with a number of associations. I would point out here that this law is, by its size, some kind of compromise attempt, since the text itself was initiated to introduce a whole series of dates, which are undeniably, very important, which represent crucial dates for this country, such as the date of BiH's international recognition, such as the date of the referendum of the plea, etc. and this law has been created in a certain way as an attempt to create a core of a law, defining the state holidays of BiH. I will repeat that, in fact, I see no reason to dispute this date as the day of anti-fascism and as the day on which, after all, the formula on which BiH survives today, which is the BiH formula, as a country of three equal constituent peoples and all its citizens, is the Zatrobeh formula. She is, in fact, prescribed in the preamble of our constitution, which was passed in Dayton, not adopted. But if we don't discuss it, I don't want to pollomise, I just want to point out that we're as proposing, and 19 of the promoters were more of the envoys and MPs from the previous call with this going as a compromise, trying to find...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u748	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. You have before you the amendments of your colleague Nikola Špirić. Please let us vote. Who is it to accept Amendment No. 1 Nikola Špirić? - 3 Who's against it? – Are there any abstentions – there is no konstatirati that Amendment No. 1 of Mr. Nikola Špirić has not been accepted. You have amendments ahead of you, this is about November 25th. Amendment No 2 – it is the length of the holidays planned. You've got it in front of you. Let us not read. Who's to accept Amendment number two, Mr. Nikola Špirić? - 3 Who's against it? - konstatirati'm sure he wasn't accepted, one is restrained, sorry. One abstention Mr. Spahić, once again I apologize. I also konstatirati that Amendment 2 of Mr Nikola Špirić was not accepted and Amendment 3 was further accepted. Who's to accept Amendment 3 to the holiday law? – 5 Who is against being accepted? – 8 Are there any abstentions? - there is no conclusion that amendment number 3 to the BiH holiday law is not accepted either. Since the amendments have not been accepted, I urge you to vote on the law in full. Proposal for a law on the holidays of BiH -- proposed by Sejfudin Tokić. Who's to adopt the proposed text? – 10 for Who is against – 3 We have a majority here. We don't have an entity majority and I think we're doing business in the field of compliance. You know that procedure stays, so we'll brief you at one of the next sessions. Thank you very much. Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH – the proposal of the Council of Ministers – there was no amendment to the second reading. We'll make a statement about the law. Is my interpretation correct? Is there anyone on behalf of the promoter who wants to speak, another is reading. Manman's gone, I repeat. The promoter doesn't want to talk. He wants Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u749	I made the 12.6th amendment. Since he wasn't accepted at the commission stage, I'm using my business right to present him here at this home today and request a statement of this home. 20 Amendment I Position 2 in Article 3. The Council of Ministers' term of office in the current meeting shall continue until the end of the Council of Ministers' term of office in the current meeting. amandman ii — Item 3 in Article 6 is deleted. Constitutional basis for the proposed amendments contained in Article 4. The Constitution of BiH, under which the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for the adoption of the law in Article 5.4. The BiH Constitution. The reasons for the regular amendments are that the proposed amendments to the law, proposed by the Council of Ministers, are not sufficient to adequately regulate the constitutional powers of the Council of Ministers. The substance of the proposed amendment is that the mandate of the Council of Ministers is equal to the mandate of the Council of Ministers themselves, as provided for in Article 5.4. The BiH Constitution, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, appoints ministers, who take office under the approval of the House of Representatives. In view of this fact, it is necessary, as in any normal state, to ensure that the Council of Ministers has the continuity of working at least in the parliamentary assembly it elects. I consider this very important for the effective functioning of the Council of Ministers, and I would ask the House to, despite the fact that this amendment has been made directly at the session, given the importance of this amendment, make its statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u750	I thank Mr. Tokić. Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u751	I just wanted to say a few words on behalf of the Serbian People's Delegates Club. First of all, these proposed amendments are acceptable to us, because we believe that the work of the Foreign Ministry is more detailed, some responsibilities have been transferred from the Ministry of Economic Relations to the abroad for the benefit of the Ministry of the Treasury of the Joint Institutions of BiH mainly under the powers laid down by law and the Constitution. However, it should be stressed that this situation, to consider this proposal and at the same time prepare the second amendment and addition of the same law, with the aim of forming a BiH government, is more than obvious that work in the Council of Ministers is, however, more improvising in this situation. We think that these situations, and here is an example of this proposal to amend and supplement the law, however, do not serve in honor of the way we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u752	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u753	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, since we have come to the second reading stage and we do not have any amendments to this document in fact, other than what Mr. Tokić has now presented as his proposal, I believe that there are conditions, that, in view of and debate of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, this Council of Ministers proposal, which, in fact, has been broken by the political option of the alliance and the political option of other political parties present in the parliamentary life of 21 BiH, is time for this nation's home to decide rationally and not to compromise. The Council of Ministers is now in the position that the logic of the relationship, related to the Council of Ministers Act adopted last year in 2000, by the way in the second home I was against that law as one number of MPs, but I would now like to say that it is quite logical and correct that the Council of Ministers facing difficulties in the functioning of ministries requires their homes from the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to distinguish jurisdiction. So I don't have any amendments either. I believe that someone in BiH must act rationally, and this proposal by the Council of Ministers accepts and enables the distinction of powers in the Council of Ministers to work more effectively, and all other proposals should be put into normal procedure, as there is, I said this last time, and the Alliance stands behind it, directly and as the president of the GDS as a man in this House of People, I want to see the draft law, it will certainly come on the agenda and in normal procedure, which concerns the BiH government. It doesn't have any illusions about it. Whether it will be called the Council of Ministers or Government, the duty of the Alliance, and it is its programme obligation to go to their homes one and the other as well as other MPs with their own initiative on which it rests. Therefore, it is not disputed about that. With a colleague, I wouldn't want to make any statement, there's no last intention, it's so-called. Front intention. It's a promiscuous intention and it's pure as a tear, and I would now suggest that we try to make a statement about what is useful for working at this point in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u754	Thank you very much. We're here in a little trap. I find the logical amendment that Mr. Tokić has proposed, however, Mr. Tokić is in conflict with the Rules of Procedure and has missed the opportunity to trouble the College and we would now be in a much more favourable situation. In preparation for the session, we had the Constitutional Commission's written position that there were no previouss and at this stage it was impossible, if the commission phase found no amendments, then they were gone. The second is, and that's now, I think it's impossible to propose a business amendment now, let's see how we get out of it. I think we're left with, in fact, to vote on the law as it is. Tokić, of course, is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u755	So Dom doesn't turn out to tie his own hands. I have asked for a statement of this House on this amendment and the House can also declare whether it will plead. Therefore, if we don't ministify purely the problem, it's not against the Rules of Procedure or anything. I'd point out that it wouldn't have turned out if I'd thought of that, apparently, today. When it was the first reading of this law, my debate, not like this, was about ending the rotation, which can be found in a stenogram from the first reading of this law. If this amendment is not accepted, I think it is inconclusive that this house is actually adopting a cosmetic law, which in principle solves nothing but create a false public perception that something is being solved. At the same time, I would say that in the Alliance, a law on the Council of Ministers is being considered and I would pray that this House does not have a potential for government or Council of Ministers' problems, because that is not an essential issue at all. The fundamental question is how the council of ministers will be organised, as the whole series of governments around the world bear the name of the Council of Ministers and function well. So let's not just fall into that trap. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u756	I thank Mr. Tokić. There's a way for the College to get out of this. I'm proposing a ten-minute break, but ten minutes and we'll keep working. We'll keep working. [[PAUZA]] The president of the Hrvat Club was slightly undisciplined. Mr Spahić is away from us and said he would come and of course we trusted him until half-one and of course we trusted him. We have a quorum and we can keep working. The only breaks are not good, because our Council of Ministers is in a small number, but all one thing we have from the Council of Ministers, we know it's with powers, and that's enough. I am pleased to conclude that the continuation of our session is attended by Dr. Sead Avdić, chairman of the House of Representatives. It's a fine practice that we slowly introduce to the chairman of homes at least partially at individual sessions. I thank my colleague for being here. We continue to work on the 3rd item of the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH – it is proposed by the Council of Ministers - a second reading. There were no amendments. The oral amendment was brought here at the very session of Mr. Tokić and since this was a new situation, the College was sitting, with the absence of Mr. Špirić, with the authority, in the College chairing the Serbian People's Club Mr. Novaković. We agreed that, under Article 89, it is possible, the new situation has arisen and we propose to the House that we make a statement on Mr Sejfudin Tokić's proposed amendment in the way it was read here. I suggest that Mr. Tokić does not repeat, because it is a stenogram already completed and I invite you to vote. Mr. Džaferović wants to say something?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u757	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening BiH institutions, economic measures monitored, economic reforms monitored by social measures, the return of exiled and displaced and of course the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision on the constitutionality of the people and a number of other points, I remind you are part of the Alliance's programme, which is now ruling in the BiH state. Today's amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers and BiH ministries is going, therefore, in favour of strengthening the institutions of the BiH state and we MPs of the Party of Democratic Action have always advocated strengthening BiH institutions. So far, that's not possible. However, we expect today a group of political parties gathered around the SDP, called the Alijans, to support the amendments tabled by Mr Tokić. For me, the Alliance, not those political forces in this home, voted for the leadership of this home. We SDA MPs have been abstentioned, but we will support these amendments, because these amendments are in favour of strengthening the institutions of the BiH state. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u758	Thank you. I've already been called to a plea. I urge you again to state who it is to adopt Mr. Tokić's amendment? - Eight for who's against it? 3 There are no abstentions, for we are not in full numbers. Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić's amendment has therefore been adopted. Therefore, we can now join the vote on the law, including Mr. Tokić's amendment, so I invite you to another vote. Who is it that the Council of Ministers Act with the amendment of Mr. Tokić is passed. My colleague, we're voting on the law now. Here you go. - Eight for it. Who's against it? - 3 No abstentions, I repeat, for we are not complete today. Therefore, the Law goes on to agree and his further fate is his business destiny. There's nothing new or unusual about it that we don't know. Thank you again. We're at point 4. Ad.4. The proposal for a law on associations and foundations of BiH – is proposed by the Council of Ministers We have this law in our second reading. We have Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendments that have been discussed in committee, but with this law, here I remind you, I think you've won today, I got a letter from a legal expert yesterday, either he's an assistant or a deputy, I'm just apologizing, High Representative, so from OHR, Mr. Jan Kambel, where he actually explains and pleads on this law. It is my duty to remind you of that. That text you got. It mainly polemises with the proposed amendments, i.e. Disputes them, very clearly disputing them. I don't want to prejudge this, of course, but here's the paper you got, it certainly has to be the subject of our public attention, just so much. Since it is a second reading, I invite you to make a statement on Mr Nikola Špirić's amendments. Here you go, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u759	In view of the letter from the Deputy High Representative, in particular the part relating, which is on the second page, which says that the BiH Association and Foundations Act, the possibility of free association and the establishment of foundations that want it at the state level is given, as prescribed by Article 2(3). The BiH Constitution. Mr Špirić authorised me to withdraw his amendments and propose two other amendments, which practically explain what the Deputy High Representative wrote. 24 Amendment I, of course, is in line with Article 89, which we mentioned earlier, because this is a new moment of OHR's letter. Amendment I – Article 1 of the law regulates the establishment, registration of internal organisations and termination of the work of associations and foundations that choose to register as associations and foundations at BiH level. That is to say, they are required to register under this law. In fact, we believe that this clarification is necessary from the reserve that the amendment promoter had with the first amendments. This opinion of OHR and this view, in fact, removes the dilemmas that were related to the law of the first reading. amandman ii to Article 29. The proposal, in point 1.Reform part of the text in such a way as to read: “the associations or foundations referred to in Article 1 of this Law, I add from Article 1 of this Law which intend to ask the Ministry, etc.”, means the text “and Article 1. This law’. I would only beg that the amendment be divided.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u760	Thank you very much. Are we able to make a statement immediately or do we need the written text? Here comes the written text. If we're going to read the text a minute or two, I suggest we do it, so we don't delay the point of not moving it. I welcome Mr. Piter Nikola, who has joined us in order to assist us in considering reports that will be on the agenda. Here you go, Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u761	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, and if the text of the amendment is quite clear, I think it would be very good for the Council of Ministers to declare this amendment if we could come to a decision at once. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u762	Mr. Džaferović, do you want to tell me? You support Divković. Here's a new proposal. Would anyone like to appear on behalf of the Council of Ministers? He doesn't want to. Okay. Constitutional Commission, there's no president here. We will approach a statement on these amendments. It's our only option right now. So Amendment number I. We will first conclude that Mr. Nikola Špirić has withdrawn, Mr. Rodić, we continue. The first finding is that Mr Nikola Špirić has said to have withdrawn amendments that were in the procedure and offered two new amendments in accordance with Article 89. Who, therefore, have you, read to accept amendment number I of Mr Nikola Špirić to the BiH Associations and Foundations Act? - 3 Who's against it? - 2 Who is abstention? – 5 So Amendment number I did not get the required majority. I ask that we be made aware of Amendment II. 25 Who is it to accept amendment number II of Mr Špirić? - 3 Who's against it? - 3 against Who is abstention? I understand that even Amendment number II, Mr Špirić, did not receive the necessary majority. I now call on you to vote on the proposal for a law on BiH associations and foundations, as a whole. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u763	Given that the proposed amendments do not change the essence of the law and have been extended in accordance with the letter of the Deputy High Representative, and they are not voted here, I would only like to conclude that the amendment in the first part was clearly the administration that the Council of Ministers' intention to regulate this area in the way it is necessary, but that it wants the small door to commit entity institutions, i.e. entity associations, to adapt its registration and its way of being made to this law. Gentlemen, there are entity laws on associations and foundations if you didn't know that and they are in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law. That is why the Serb People's Club of Delegates will be against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u764	Thank you very much. I respect everything you said and continue to call for a vote on the law on the Bill of Associations and Foundations of BiH. Who is it to adopt the law with the title I just read, and how do you have it on the agenda? - Eight for who's against it? - 3 There are no abstentions, for we are not all numbered. So we don't have an entity majority, the law goes to consent. Thank you very much. Ad.5. The proposal for a law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce – is proposed by the Council of Ministers – second reading We still have amendments, we also have on this amendment of Mr Nikola Špirić. Since Mr. Špirić isn't here, I'm asking the secretary to read us these amendments, so we can. You've all got the amendments, if there's any need to read.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u765	It is an amendment and a new Article 2a is added behind Article 2. which reads: "In all its activities, the Chamber will act in co-operation and agreement with the BiH Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Commerce, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, in the text of the Foreign Trade Ministry." Do you need an explanation? 26
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u766	We can go straight to the vote on this amendment. Who is it to adopt the proposed amendment and Mr Špirić? 3 Who is against? - One abstention. Are there any more conceits out there? So amendment number I didn't get the required majority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u767	Amendment number II of Article 3 is also amended as follows: “Members of the Chamber of Commerce are the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH and the Chamber of Commerce of RS, as well as collective members and other chambers of commerce organised by territorial and professional principles, specialised and similar situations may be collective members in a manner and under the conditions laid down in the Statute of the Chamber. Companies, banks, insurance companies and other legal businessmen, registered to perform foreign trade relations with abroad, become members of the foreign trade chamber, via the RS Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of BiH's Chamber of Commerce. Article 3 Members of chambers may be scientific and educational institutions, associations of citizens, who, in their registration, have economic activities, alliances, interest associations, foundations, foundations and other organisations that exercise the activeness of importance for the economy, as individual or collective members, if they express their interests in membership by their decision’.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u768	Thank you very much. You heard the amendment. Who's to accept Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendment? - 3 Who's against it? – 6 WHO is abstention – 1 abstention I konstatirati that Amendment number II is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u769	Amendment III in Article 4(3) shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u770	Who's to accept this amendment? - 3 Who's against it? – 5 Who is abstention – 1 Therefore the amendment did not receive a transitional majority. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u771	amandman IV – Article 6 which regulates the powers of the Chamber to be accepted under the condition that Article 2a) of Amendment I on co-operation and consultation with entities chambers and ministries is added. This amendment is related to Amendment I which has not been accepted. Since he hasn't been accepted, I think that... 27
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u772	There's no need to vote on him either, he's actually tied up, and the amendment's been rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u773	Amendment V — Articles 22 and 23 are deleted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u774	Article 22 and 23. They're getting wiped out. It's Amendment V. Who's to adopt Amendment V?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u775	All right, all right, explanation. Instead of Articles 22 and 23. Add new Article 22.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u776	Ilić's guess is that people have read, we've given little opportunity to read. The text is simple and short. I know you'd better get as deep as you can, but I think we're doing good.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u777	Instead of Articles 22 and 23, a new Article 22 is added. The financing of the chamber shall be provided from the budget of the chamber of entities and from the specific financial resources provided by entity chambers on the basis of a special fee for enterprises carrying out external trade and the basis of which is the value of external trade.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u778	You heard the amendment. Who's to adopt? The amendment – 3 for is read. Who's against it? – 5 Suspension – 2 I find that Amendment number V is not...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u779	Amendment VI – Article 27 – is amended and reads: “The full followers of the BiH Chamber of Commerce are the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH and the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia. Alternative. Legal followers of the BiH Chamber of Commerce are the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH and the Chamber of Commerce of the RS and the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u780	Who is it to adopt Mr Nikola Špirić's amendment without an alternative? Who's to adopt the amendment? - 3 Who's against it? – 6 abstentions – 1 I konstatirati that the amendment did not receive the required majority, an amendment without an alternative. Let's see, it was an alternative. Read another alternative.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u781	Legal followers of the BiH Chamber of Commerce are the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of RS and the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u782	Who's to adopt the amendment to the alternative? - no one who's against? – 6 suzdražni – I konstatirati that there is no alternative either that the amendment number VI has not received the required majority. Therefore, we remain to plead on the draft law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce – the Council of Minsitarian law. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. There's really no reason to discuss it at the time of the plea, but since we're not much, we have opportunities.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u783	I said that I had the authority of Mr Špirić as the amendment promoter that on behalf of him it was not a discussion, but in front of the amendment promoter, after the vote on amendments. I want to ask the public here. To whom does the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH bother? Who minds co-operation within BiH? Who cares if the Foreign Trade Chamber does its job in a quality way, based on the data it can and has from these chambers of commerce? Gentlemen, it's obvious that the laws in the procedure have one very ugly motive? Don't expect us to join you. You took responsibility for this part of the job and you'll have to bear that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u784	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. I don't see the need for drama. You should have, but it's your right to see things like that, I don't see them like that. Envoys should not be questioned for what they vote for and how they vote. Now we're going to vote on the law and we'll make a statement. We thank you again now. 29 We vote on the Proposal for a Law on the Foreign Trade Chamber, the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Who's to adopt the law in the long run? - 7 for who's against? - 3 v. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. We have a quorum, we have a quorum at the border or we have a quorum. That means this law is going to be agreed upon. He didn't get the necessary entity majority. We're at point six. Ad.6. Proposal for a law on – I will, please just qualify what it is, discussion, replica, let it be a replica it would be good, business saves us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u785	To say that someone is against the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation and the RS and related to the statement of this law, I don't think it stands. In a member of the 3rd law, it says that the members of the Kmore are the Chamber of Commerce of the RS, the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH, the Chamber of Commerce of Brcko District, etc. I just want to confirm that by voting for this law, we are voting and confirming the existence and existence of these chambers and confessing those chambers as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u786	Here you go. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u787	One brief intervention over this law, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me that we have not been far from adopting the text of this important law. The laws of this type that establish an institution at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that should contribute to better quality economic relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and abroad are important laws for this country and I think it is not good to treat these laws in this way. First, this is second reading, that's first thing. In the first reading of this thing we heard today, we didn't get a chance to hear it. The law was adopted in the text in the first reading as it arrived at the Council of Ministers. If we want to deal with serious parliamentary work, then we should immediately classify our remarks as soon as we get the text of the bill. Secondly, to accuse someone here of being against the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the constitution of entities formed institutions, I don't think it's correct, I don't think it really stands. I could also ask here now, if we were to go with that logic – who has something against the strong and at the start of the ready-to-be Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fulfil its responsibilities. The principle cannot be accepted that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Chamber of Commerce legal follower, acting under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the principle of the continuity of institutions, are the economic chambers of entities. The law stipulates that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Chamber of Commerce legal follower should be the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina and so should be. Only so will the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina begin to be an institution that will be able to meet its obligations. 30 and a third thing. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, I think that one MP, I don't know exactly who, over one other law, made one remark, that in the future, when we are discussing amendments, we must first and foremost have a person present, it is inconclusive of the persons who are investing in the amendments, regardless of the justified or unwarranted reasons that they are not there when they are going through their amendments. So to be present and others, we have representatives of the motionors here who will give answers or tell us that they are unable to give an answer until the Council of Ministers meets so that we can have MPs' orientation. I think we're one very important law today, as this Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce has put it in a position to go to the harmonisation of the College and go to another procedure here in front of this home. I would ask that these creatures be kept in mind when it comes to future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u788	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. I must save you from business now. I have to qualify this as a replica, because the post-festum debates do not come into consideration either in business or in the logic of any democracy and culture, if you will, I do not respect you very much. Of course, I gave you my word, so please don't discuss post-festum. As for Mr Špirić, I announced, he went to Banja Luka for a funeral and it is not, at all, far from being qualified for irresponsibility. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ad. Six. Proposed competition law Proposer of the Council of Ministers. We have the law in first reading. I'm just reminding you, you know very well that we're discussing the principles of the law and in that sense I'm calling on you whether anyone wants to speak. So on behalf of the promoter, no one wants to. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u789	Since this is the first reading, I'll take some out, I'd say the principles. Clearly, by the second reading, we have time for any amendment to act, etc. Here, I would say in the dynamics of law-making there is a certain lack of synchronization and that is the problem when it comes to concretely this law. In this law it is you have a situation that this competitive council is this body that has extremely significant powers and strong powers etc. in the case of competition law and in the case of otherwise non-yellow competition. In a certain way, it is defined here as a first-degree body, and the second-degree body is the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now there is a clear problem here, because we have not passed the Law on the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. In total there, the prosecution, you remember that we had it all together in the procedure so that it could be a problem, I would say in the implementation of this law as long as it was passed. It's my principled remark.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u790	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Ilić 31.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u791	I'd like to support the adoption of a law like this, but we'd like to suggest to the Proposer that he agrees with the competent entity authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u792	Thank you very much. Have you heard from Mr. Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u793	I guess we are. I'll try not to say it again. In fact, it is in the context of the proposal that there is one correct constitutional basis, and it is therefore not a question as far as we are concerned that this can go in the process, or that it can go to another reading. What it stands for is that, on the constitutional basis, the explanation that entity consent must be achieved, so I only ask here to be in the process, meaning until the second reading, the consent of the competent entity authorities is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u794	Thank you very much. As far as I can see, there's no more, and here's Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u795	Mr. Chairman, just short for a stenogram. So we have the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it has been declared by the High Representative. It is true that they were not adopted by Parliament, but the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has these laws and therefore what is written in this law, which refers to the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it was possible to install it in this text. This is just for the sake of a stenogram, and I hope that this Parliament will soon pass those laws that were passed by the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u796	Thank you very much. We've got that in mind. The thing that's in itself, but it's not bad to remember. I thank you, if there is no further discussion, I invite you to vote on who it is to pass the law. Who is it to continue the discussion of articles, that is, to adopt the law in the first reading? Ten's in. Is anyone against and abstentioned? - No. This law goes into another reading. Thank you very much. Ad. Seven. Request for an examination of the law under the hasty procedure of Article 99 of our Rules of Procedure. Now we have, I'll read it to you, so we have a proposal for a set of laws that we need to put into procedure according to emergency procedure 32 1. A proposal for a consumer protection law in Bosnia and Herzegovina I am opening a debate on who it is so that we can accept this law as a matter of urgency. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. If he doesn't want to know who he is so we can discuss this law in a hurry? - Six to counter, please. - 3 against the abstentions – 1 Here is an entity majority. So we're going to agree and then we're going to know if this law is being debated by haste or normal procedure. 2. The proposal for a law on industrial property in Bosnia and Herzegovina does not want anyone to speak. I guess. Who's to treat this law in a hurry procedure? - Six against what? - Three abstentions? - 1 Same vote, same conclusion. 3. Proposal for a law on copyright and other related rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina Who is it to discuss in a hasty procedure? - 5 Who's against please? - 4 Who is abstention? - 1 We do not have an entity majority and this law is going to agree, i.e. to agree to its urgency, its treatment. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina Who is it to treat this law in a hasty procedure? - 7 Who's against please? - Three abstentions? – there is no same conclusion, compliance with the procedure and 5. The proposal for a customs tariff for Bosnia and Herzegovina does not want to be discussed. Let's decide who it is so that we can discuss this Council of Ministers' proposal in a hasty procedure? - Seven for who's against it? - 3 No abstentions and this law goes to consent. 33 Ad. 8. Information on organisation and personnel, please, and we will decide on the Rules of Procedure whether we will treat them in haste, the Council of Ministers has an intervention, I respect this intervention. We will therefore agree within 3 days to decide whether to accept them in haste or regular procedure, and then they will go into procedure, whether it is urgent or regular. One moment. Here you go, Mr. Prlić, but let me tell you first of all the honourable ministers that we are going to ask and each time we ask the Council of Ministers if they want to show themselves about anything and you are always open to this pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u797	Thank you very much. I think the plea was and it's probably hard to get things back to the very beginning. Part of these laws are obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina per...(Rodmeu). We actually have, if we're prolonging it now in a month, two, some of us have already broken deadlines, we're actually bringing ourselves back to an extremely difficult situation that objectively by the end of next year we can't reach an agreement on extension and stabilisation with the European Union. It's a comment when it comes to these first 3-4 laws that have passed all the procedures. The groups prepared them, which were made up of people from entity ministries within the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of European Integration, were also agreed, so that the prolonging of the statements on these laws puts us in a rather awkward situation. Especially a bad situation when it comes to customs tariffs. Customs tariff was prepared at the Council of Ministers six to seven months ago, which is spinning by, I don't even know where it's going so far. We cannot adopt the Memorandum of Negotiations with the World Trade Organisation without the adoption of the tariff. Without that memo, we cannot enter into negotiations. Which means we can lose this prolonging for almost six months, when it comes to our entry into the World Trade Organization. All things are prepared. There is no change in this tariff compared to the existing system. So that's last year's situation. The old customs tariff plus... that were, uh, there was a complex customs tariff. So there is no change in the existing system, and therefore I would ask that there be a way to get this alignment done as soon as possible and that in this month we have these laws back on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u798	Thank you very much. We will, of course, have your argument which is very clear and clear. Weimaći keep it in mind when we agree. She is, that argument is already embedded in most of the votes here and in advance, I hope that in the alignment she will overcome. Thank you very much. 34 Ad. 8. Information on the organisation and staff situation in diplomatic consular offices of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ministry of Foreign Affairs network is submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Does the representative want to talk maybe? No, because we got the text. We have a written position on our commission. Does Mr. Ilić, as president of the Commission, want to speak? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u799	The Commission supported, as it writes here, that is to say, it accepted the information as it is, but note that when the Council of Ministers plans to provide the budget with sufficient resources and regular service of the commitments made in the DKP, and to use the allocations rationally. You know there's been a lot, and unfortunately there's nothing in the Information, but it's written in the press, about these abuses in certain diplomatic representations like Vienna and Washington, so in that sense, it's my intervention. So we accepted information on the Commission as Information, but with this supplement proposed by Mr Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u800	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to discuss the Information Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u801	I'd like to put it in a few words in a way that disagrees with the way this information is presented. In fact, we have received one piece of information that essentially comes down to the fact that the Foreign Ministry does not have as much money as it needs and that in the future it is necessary to provide certain money. We do not have any information on when certain issues, i.e. the lack of clarity of the public, such as the ambiguities regarding the revision of the Auditor's report on the control of the Foreign Ministry, where large amounts of money are simply lost, where they are not known where they are and where there are no reports of their spending. We have no information as to what our diplomatic consular service has done, or representations, so we do not have a report on their work that would be very important for the entire situation in this ministry. We don't even have a report on the structure of the staff in relation to the expert training. Whether it pleases or not. About the knowledge of world languages, about ultimately the normative regulation in this ministry. Here is also mentioned the regulation of visa regimes by the Ministry, although it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Council of Ministers. So there are a number of issues that are missing from this information so that it will be fully quality information. Therefore, I suggest that the information be returned to the applicant and complemented by these remarks that I made. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u802	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Anyone else want to talk, gentlemen? He wants, the ministry's representative, Deputy Minister, Mr. Mišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u803	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Parliament. This information is likely, that MP Novaković found incomplete, but it seems to me that it reflected what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked for. Of course, we will meet any request of any representative and any Council of the Assembly when the request and direction to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is established. We make the work report half-yearly and yearly. That report, therefore, could not have been because this request for information was filed somewhere on occasion when we were appointed you know. We reacted pretty quickly to it, see this wearing date 8.5. There hasn't been a review report yet. Therefore, the data on the audit carried out could not be there. I am convinced that you will, here you have already had it written in the agenda today, when it is agreed with the House of Representatives that you will have on the agenda, and we will make sure to give, as I would say, our views and opinions on the findings of the audit. I would probably be obliged to apologize for not having that information on the qualification structure and on the language of the foreign ministry and diplomats in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Diplomatic and Consular Network. I can, if you will please provide information that only 14 out of the 505 employees at this time do not meet the requirements of school equipment, i.e. they have 1 degree lower school equipment. As far as foreign language knowledge is concerned, we have 99% at least a formal cover for foreign language knowledge based on the beliefs of institutions, institutions, universities, etc. on the satisfactory level so far sought by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. One very small, minimal number of workers did not submit this, or there is no data on their personnel files on this. But we have no information that this is some worrying problem, and if we know about 1-2 cases where the level of foreign language, given the diplomatic level of workers, is not adequate. Therefore, we will certainly supplement this information and if you decide again, in what period you are considering this same information you will get what Mr. Novaković is and what the other MPs may be looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u804	I thank Mr. Mišić. I think we've received good and quality information and willingness to cooperate, and soon a half-yearly report where the Ministry will surely include what is now qualified as a permanent grudge. I think we can be completely satisfied with Mr. Secretary's response. Does anyone else want to talk about this information? I will not discuss it, of course, but I must conclude that the encouraging information Mr. Mišić gave in both the qualification structure and the willingness and the rule of language and the desire to further improve it. We, please, vote on it. After all, the information was accepted by our discussion and the Ministry's willingness to cooperate on this basis. I thank you. 36 We're moving on. Ad. Nine. Information in the field of immigration and asylum, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The information was discussed by our constitutional and legal commission. Mr Spahić hasn't shown up yet. He promised he'd show up. Whether the proposing representative might want to talk about information in the field of immigration and asylum. Mr. Zubak, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u805	Thank you, I'll just have a few notes regarding this information. Namely, this information on the situation in the field of immigration and asylum is the first information of such a character to be considered in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament and was previously discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. It has been tried on the basis of the data that we have to give a picture of the situation in this area, but I would like to point out immediately that this ministry does not have all relevant data needed to provide one complete information, i.e. an analysis of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to immigration and asylum. So, we are disabled that we have all the necessary data, and the reason is that no full co-operation and coordination of the work of all the interior ministries at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has yet to be established. In fact, the information shows that some cantonal ministries have not shown the necessary level of co-operation and have not shown their willingness to cooperate in this area in order to combat these phenomena that are indicated here. The other problem is that we did the information on the 23rd of this year, and today it's here, it's been a few months now, so it's kind of not fully current. But it's because of this long procedure that we have in parliaments and in the Council of Ministers, but I would like to point out that the basic assessments that are given then and based on these data are now standing. And now there are these grades, we have available the development data from 1.8 last to 31.3.2001, and those estimates we gave in relation to this data, so they continue to stand. What I would also like to say is that after the information was adopted by the Council of Ministers, we have taken on a whole series of activities that are provided here in the information. Among other things, we have begun working together a working group composed of representatives of international organisations and representatives of the Ministry of Human Rights and have completed draft rules on the conditions and manner of entry of the site, issuing visas and other travel documents to foreigners, issuing authorisation for the stay of foreigners in Bosnia and Herzegovina and preparing procedures for its adoption. Furthermore, the ministry adopted a draft readmission agreement with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the document was released in the process. It therefore took the necessary action to adopt the conditions for the start of negotiations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Furthermore, we have also started discussions with the Republic of Croatia on the review of the agreement that we signed with them on readmission. We've already held our first meeting of experts. In progress, fourthly, the choice of localities is under way, i.e. we got here to say so and the promise from the international community that we will get one location in which the reception centre for immigrants and asylum seekers will be located. We've put out the project documentation. We expect final decisions in that suckle to be made these days. And fifthly, work is under way to prepare a comprehensive visa regime for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, it is clear that one of the problems facing Bosnia and Herzegovina 37, when it comes to the situation in this area, is a non-compliant visa regime with neighbouring countries and a non-compliant visa regime with the countries of the European Union. So we have already taken up a whole series of activities, and in this sense we expect to be able to resolve these, these most important issues, or solve the most important problems by the end of the year. In the last 31st 3rd to these days we had a legal way, a 7,601 stranger entered, and the country legally left 2,475 persons. So legal entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina continues to be used as a way to go from Bosnia and Herzegovina in an illegal manner to Western European countries. The structure is less the same. So, by introducing a visa regime with Iran, we no longer have such an inflow of foreigners legally at Sarajevo airport, but the trend continues when it comes to entering legal from Turkey. We hope that in the course of the year we will be able to sign a readmission agreement with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that we will coordinate visa regimes with neighbouring countries, and that in this way we will at least prevent legal arrival in Bosnia and Herzegovina or neighbouring countries so that they can exit from Bosnia and Herzegovina illegally to the countries of Western Europe. What does it matter? You Videte, they mention it here in Kinez information. They have recently entered Bosnia and Herzegovina in a completely legal way, such as Turkey's citizens and are now legally entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they entered Belgrade in a legal manner, at a Belgrade airport, or in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and then entered Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders illegally in Bosnia and Herzegovina from Bosnia and Herzegovina further west. So, a whole set of measures we and the activities predicted were taken. We've taken part of it, and we're hoping that somewhere by the end of the year we'll solve these main problems, and when we do, we'll go with new information to see what we've managed to do and this, and in the name of the information, so let's inform you. It would be good if through the debate, the debate was on, with your colleagues at the House of Representatives, if you would give some suggestions and recommendations in this regard. Everything we hear from you in that direction we will accept and engage even more strongly to deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u806	We thank Mr. Minister. The debate was on our constitutional committee, and it can help, as such, and I'm opening a debate here. Does anyone want to talk about this report? Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u807	First of all, it is one quality information with a truly series of data that fully illustrates what the situation currently is in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to this problem. Here we have several really difficult qualifications that warn that an urgent approach must be made to the implementation of the proposal for measures that the ministry is responsible for, or the Council of Ministers has proposed, and I would not talk about this. I came out just to make another proposal to supplement this proposal for measures, which is to revise the refugee status of all refugees, since we have here a finding that in preparation for the revision of the refugee status for persons from Croatia, so those from Croatia, I am actually proposing that the audit be carried out for Croatian persons, but also from Serbia, means for all persons to be audited. It is obvious that we have some problems here and that we have the retention of a number of 38 people who are realistic, so there is no need for this status in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u808	Thank you very much. Mr Spahić, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u809	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as you received in writing, has discussed your information and has recommended to our home in further procedure, so that the debate be conducted and that information be accepted with suggestions and remarks from the delegates. What I want to say now as a delegate and as a participant of this high House, I would like to say that the situation, when it comes to immigration and asylum not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in Eastern Europe, is a central issue that should be taken into account in your role as Minister and Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state bodies, and concerns the possibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina having a much more active and direct engagement in the framework of the South East European Stability Pact, is under number one, within the third working table and the first desk and second desk. I'd like to say about what. First, if your analysis is carefully looked at and if you look at movements and asylum, the issue of asylum and immigration is in Southeast Europe in the countries of Southeast Europe and their movement towards Europe, across ocean countries, then there are clearly two fundamental problems in this part of Europe and the world. The first is an undeniable question of human rights and freedom. It's a fundamental problem. The problem of communities that are minority in their countries that are looking for a way out across other countries that still have such unregulated borders, unregulated relationships and that create assumptions about them, and some can have solved their problem that cannot be solved in their own country. It's a very serious problem and the first problem. The other problem is the economic problem. It belongs to another so-called. corners, second group. Bosnia and Herzegovina is located as co-chair of the Stability Pact for the next 6 months. I asked for an operational programme of the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of European Integration and our Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, as well as the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so key ministries for the implementation of these programmes at the country level, so that Bosnia and Herzegovina plays an active role in economic development and regional co-operation. Bosnia and Herzegovina must answer in the right way what role it can play on the issue of immigration and asylum when it comes to economic immigration and when it comes to seeking exits from existing misery and poverty in the countries of Southeast Europe and those surrounding it, that I do not list a single country, that region, the region around it at 2-3 levels, was logical for me that Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is facing this problem, would ask some questions in co-operation with the relevant ministries of neighbouring countries and states in the region in front of the European Commission and in front of the European Community, in front of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank that will put problems in the right way. In no way can this space be calmed, there is no solution to the problem of immigration and asylum unless it meets what is key, and these are human 39 rights and these are the economic problems and the poverty we face. Bosnia and Herzegovina can play a much more active and different role and I support you in your consideration of the problems related to numbers, relationships, relations, etc. but would like to highlight the mandatory role of all ministries, not only in building a different policy in addressing the problem of immigration and asylum in the region. I would also like to personally support your report as a delegate to express confidence that you, as minister in that system of inter-minitary and inter-resorial work and action, will offer us the following information by the end of the year which will, of course, have answers to some of the questions that I have raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u810	Thank you, Mr. Spahić. Anyone else want to talk about this information? If she doesn't want us to be able to come forward about accepting this information even though it's in the discussion, we can also formalize it by voting. Here, I'm an example. That is why I call upon you to accept it. No one should count the votes, no one is against it. Here we are, we have the quorum for, we have accepted this information with the gratitude of Minister Zupk that he has given us further information and likely willingness to give what he heard in the debate and what was in us at the commission stage to respect it for the following information and reports. Thank you very much. Ad. Ten. The report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2000 reported to us by the Council of Ministers. The central banks, of course, but we got it through the Council of Ministers and here is the governor of the Central Bank, I'm giving him a chance if he wants to speak to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u811	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to attend this session of Parliament. Bosnia and Herzegovina's central bank is the state institution responsible for the implementation of monetary policy and this operates through the Karinsibord principle. I hope you're all aware of the importance and principles of the functioning of this Karinsibord principle. For the success of the Karinsibord system, the great political support we have had so far is very important. I have to say that during the year 2000, all the demands of the Carinsiboard arrangement, so a lot of coverage of the conversion marks are fully met. As a result of the successful functioning of the Carinsiboard, the widespread prevalence of the use of the conversion mark and its presence in the bank deposits is increasing. So, the result of all of this is the fact that foreign exchange reserves grew to over one billion last year. So from the very beginning of the Central Bank's operation, which was in 1997, there was an increase of 750%. Of course, we manage these foreign reserves according to the very strict guidelines given by our board of directors. You know, last year we had new coins of 1 and 2 KM and I think these coins were well received among our population and are widely used. This meant pulling 50 fening coins and paper 1 KM bills whose quality is not quite satisfactory. One of our main achievements last year is the introduction of a new payment system. And although the new payment system officially started operating on January 5th this year, I must say most of the work was done last year. The central bank has formed two RTG clearing houses, a clearing house for a large 40-value transaction and a Giro clearing house. But, of course, the new payment system couldn't have started to work if our commercial banks, or the commercial sector, weren't ready for that kind of thing. 40 commercial banks were ready to join the new payment system. In the first six months, we've had over a million transactions worth about six billion and we haven't actually had any technical problems. Last year we opened our fifth office, an office in Brcko. The number of core central banks is constantly growing, so we now have 235 workers and we are generally very satisfied with the results and progress of the Central Bank. And we're also satisfied with the use of the converting brand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u812	Thank you, Mr. Governor Nikol, and I invite you gentlemen to speak. Mr. Ivanković, then Mr. Jusufović, Mr. Rodić under three.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u813	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests, I would like to highlight the quality of the work of the Central Bank that is recognised from the report, and I would like to thank Mr Peter Nikola for his successful management of the Central Bank. I would also like to ask him to continue to sign a contract with commercial banks in the world as quickly as possible so that all residents of our country can change the conversion marks into other currencies in the countries they travel. This is essentially the opinion of the Commission on Finance and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u814	Thank you, Mr. Ivanković. Mr. Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u815	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the truth in a small number, I would do something in a similar tone to Mr. Ivanković. I'm not going to talk about the report because, with great care, I heard the report yesterday on the Commission and here. I have not been involved in the Commission, but I feel the need to show a great satisfaction and respect at the same time and to give both recognition and compliments to this institution and to Mr Nikola as governor, his deputies and associates and I can say, so without a courtoise that this is one of the rare institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that has achieved these results. They are visible and where happiness lies, realizing and knowing the situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located that in many ways both political and economic and any other sense is unstable, where luck is to be a guideline as the stability of the Bosnian Herzegovina currency and all that is done from the cover of this institution. Something has occurred to me and this is going in the same direction as Mr Ivanković said, and it is also the Commission's view that we have the opportunity to have Mr nikol as governor and Central Bank, it seems that before with our currency he will bring us into the Council of Europe, but what we will achieve by political means, because this is already done to a significant extent, not only in the Council of Europe, but also in the wider integration outside of the Council of Evopa. I once again thank you for all that has been done, for it seems to me that Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least in that sense, gives it some kind of seal and stability.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u816	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Mr. Rodić asked for it, so Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u817	Dear gentlemen, I would also like to express my satisfaction that today we have had the opportunity to hear from the esteemed Mr. Nikola's report annually. However, what I particularly want to stress is the fact that, apart from the quality of this report, I would sincerely like to have more of these reports to be discussed in this high House. However, what I am extremely concerned about and what I think is further within the competence of this House and the Parliamentary Assembly and all the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if you have read carefully, and I think we all are, then you will come up with chapters that talk about economic developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as tax-based and gross domestic product, industrial production, exports and imports of goods, and we will also come up with the fact that prices are low in inflation and cost of life, so look and if you have followed closely, these are for me extremely warning data and stability of the Central Bank is exclusively maintained by the knowledge of people who work in it. There is a major imbalance between imports and exports, there are warning data on the number of employees and there is stagnation. I think it will be much bigger when we consider the privatisation that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think this report as a report is fully acceptable to me. However, the fact is that we imagine what I said and that through other legal projects we try to respond practically to these reports and come up with quality legal solutions that will contribute to this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u818	Mr. Ilić, then Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u819	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, yesterday it was on the Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs that we had the opportunity to discuss, following a report with the governor and his associates and to get answers to some questions that I would not be asking right now. I think it is indeed a pleasure for us delegates to see the report so transparently shown by such a significant institution as the Central Bank and I also express my satisfaction and thank Mr. Piter Nikol, the Governor, the Council and other co-workers in the bank that they have made such a transparent report and comprehensive. Of course, what I asked yesterday as answers to some questions and what my colleague and predecessor, Mr Rodić, said in this report by the responsible institution and authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities can find a lot to worry about, make them much more operational and much more responsible, and that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have a more certain future. So, in this report, there is indeed alarming data on the economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course it produces then and an unsatisfactory social situation. It is therefore an opportunity that, on the basis of this report and the report of the auditors, the competent authorities are much more serious and with much more responsibility to approach these problems. Thank you very much. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u820	Thank you very much, Mr. Ilić. Come on, Mr. Tokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u821	The honourable chairman, gentlemen of the envoys, delegates, so that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the public could look at this whole picture, I would respond to the presentation of the two last delegates who are so concerned about the country's economic situation, the weak transition processes and the overall events, and are very concerned after a dozen Council of Ministers' laws voted against and brought them down. E, in order for the citizens to learn and see and see the law that the Council of Ministers agreed on in the composition of both entities and working groups, both from one entity and from another. Well, to make the citizens see everything transparent, I'm going to call it really one double policy here. Do not express concern, but make sure that you vote as much for the laws as possible and contribute to the rule of law. The economic situation cannot be improved in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular the Central Bank cannot provide any other data except for those practical ones that are if Bosnia and Herzegovina lives as a single modern economic system. This cannot be done if we have this effectiveness, the adoption of electoral laws in a way that one group sits not critically, not seeing even enough how much the entity government participated, how much the Council of Ministers has been involved, and such processes as including this country in a European, or trade association. I had to react to this about the public, because I don't think it's right at all, and I really don't think you're that worried and I'd like you to express your concerns as much as you do when you say the laws that this country needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u822	Replica Mr. Ilić. Thank you, Tokić. Replic times 3 Novaković and
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u823	I think everyone could see through this as much as I do at the House of Peoples that I'm a very reasonable, rational and tolerated man. But this degree of negative energy that Mr. Tokić shines here among us is the reason why we voted as we voted. I asked you nicely to be a lot more tolerance when something was proposed. Amendments have not been accepted, even those of cosmetic nature. Gentlemen, we're going to vote again. I asked you nicely and warned you that we are not prepared to, in this way, have a profitable relationship with us. And for that reason, the product of our vote, what was formerly Mr. Tokić, and I think that we have also shown about all the laws on which the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are really shown that we have been highly constructive and that we have voted for such laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u824	Thank you, Mr. Ilić. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. He's not Rodić. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u825	I don't normally like to use replicas in this house, or false allegations, or politicalize relationships, or to engage in any kind of controversy with anyone. However, if Mr Tokić said that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina must know that I am now saying that the two of us in the order of the Serb people's delegates have performed hypocritically, then I must answer Mr Tokić in the following way. My presence in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the House of Peoples is in this term, I think there will be time to show and prove who works. However, it is not and should not be unilateral just what can be heard here for this speaker. Is the work of this high house also made up of work in committees. Mr. Tokić, I would ask you not to make any connotations, and you have not reacted as to what we should generally all react here that when it comes to the Rules of Procedure and when it comes to voting certain laws that we are going in order. It's happening to us here today that a representative from the Council of Ministers speaks when we all spoke. We haven't heard reports or commissions today even though we get them on the table and we can read them. So I think a lot of things we all have to do together, not qualify each other and say how through these laws. After all, we will also see the alignment of what will happen, so we will see who will show good will and who will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u826	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u827	I don't think we needed this debate now that we've entered, but of course it's every right to challenge some debate the way he thinks he should. I must say that the will of the Serbian people's club to discuss all one law and that all one law is passed, but in a way that this club and its opinion are respected. Gentlemen, that's not what it was, I have to say it's a 60. The Rules of Procedure make it clear – if most votes do not contain 1/3 votes from the territory of each entity, or if it turns out that the quorum is missing, the chairman may set a break of up to 60 minutes, which the chairman did not do and did not allow any harmonisation or negotiation of gentlemen. Of course, I don't take it as an evil chairman, it's his right to use it or not, and he didn't want to take advantage of it, considering that we probably wouldn't have any effect or that we would have done something else in that period. Here I am, and now, after Mr. Deputy Minister steps forward in relation to tariffs, I suggest that the alignment be carried out. To take a break and get the gentlemen to agree. So it's not true that I don't want to, here's the possibility of doing business for up to 3 days, which doesn't mean we can't and now we can take a break and show that what's important and depends on whether the ministry can do it tomorrow, we can do it. But, gentlemen, I'm asking you to do it, not what I just said, but to do it in a way that we respect each other here. Therefore, let this be my initiative whether now, at the last point when initiatives are to bring the customs tariffs into line immediately during this week so let's see what we do on it, because that's very important, we said Malta not yesterday. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u828	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. I know about your initiative to make an immediate adjustment. We'll do it in the next three days. I have reasons, I don't want to burden this session because we won't be doing it right now, but I'm sure you can be sure my reasons are constructive. Mr. Spahić answered. Please bring this point to a quick end.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u829	Mr. Chairman, since last time I had the opportunity to talk about the work of the Central Bank and about the work of its director of the institution, I would just like to confirm as a delegate that it is on the agenda, so the information and report on the work of the Central Bank and to support it as a delegate and to ask that we give our agreement on the project and the explanation given by Mr. Piter nikol, and the debate on the points that have passed the agenda we will have when to return to them at the next session. I would like to thank you for the trust and for the attention this institution has towards this high house and which regularly, precisely, heads up with the director every year comes here and makes an account for what he does. This is much more transparent than many other institutions, states, when one person increases the work of one institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u830	Thank you very much. We've all supported the discussion report and I think I'll make a good interpretation if I say that without raising a chart, we're all in favour and we thank the governor and congratulate you on the results of so far being unanimously rated as excellent. Thank you, Mr. Governor, and we gentlemen are moving on. Ad. 11. Now we have the approval of ratifications. This is point 11. We have five agreements and one contract. We have a business opportunity to do it in a package. We ask ourselves to decide whether, therefore, for all 5 agreements and 1 contract, we suddenly approve ratification, because I have read them in the adoption of the agenda and you have before you under that title. So do you agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u831	...no microphone involved, you have reports of commissions confirming...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u832	I thank Mr. Ilić, of course we have reports of committees that confirm, as Mr. Ilić literally said. So do you agree that because of the rationality of all 5 agreements and 1 contract, we will vote with one vote to approve ratification or we will go one by one. All together. Who is to approve the ratification of 5 agreements and 1 contract as I read them when adopting the agenda. 45 Unanimously. There's no need for any further findings. Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ad. 12. We are now at the adopted agenda point which we have called a review of international co-operation with the focus on our delegation's stay in Strasbourg. That's our 12th point. Final point. Mr. Tokić wanted to talk about it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u833	Speakers, gentlemen, delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have initiated this item of the agenda at the College with the motivation to introduce the practice that the reports of all delegations, i.e. the information of all delegations staying abroad, present to the House of Peoples, i.e. the House of Representatives as information. Therefore, it does not have to be all debated, given that such a thing is not mentioned in any of the Rules of Procedure, I would immediately propose a defacto conclusion that today the House of Peoples concludes in this direction that all delegations and all international representations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are obliged, therefore, to submit information to the Commissions and then to the House on these residences abroad. In line with this initiative, I, i.e. the secretary of the delegation, in co-operation with members of the delegation and with me as chairman of the delegation, submitted a long time ago a report on the visit of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Kuwait from 16-18 2001 and a report from the Political Affairs Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights and the 3 plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe held in Strasbourg from 23-29 June. Given the importance of this topic, and my motivation to discuss these issues primarily in this House, I will only orally highlight the most important conclusions arising from the involvement of the parliamentary delegation in the composition, I will repeat that this delegation has been elected by two homes in the composition – Mediha Filipović, Ivo Lozančić, Sejfudin Tokić, Momir Tošić and Goran Turjačanin, at sessions, separate sessions of two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This report was agreed between all the members of the delegation you received in writing. I'd just point out three key findings here that are related to Bosnia and Herzegovina. 1. The procedure for Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission into full membership of the Council of Europe continues as planned to complete the whole procedure by the end of this year. This suggests that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina must continue its active work throughout the summer to adopt a final report by Mr Šurjan at the next meeting of the Committee held in Georgia on 2 September with additional changes stemming from the discussion on the political committee. 2. Full support is being given to democratic, multiethnic forces to seek optimal solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law towards strengthening democracy, political pluralism of human rights and freedoms, which is to be adopted by September and 46 3. An urgent implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina's entire territory is being made through the alignment of the entity's constitution with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it was a three-bit conclusion for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also draws the conclusion that the chairman will likely initiate under current issues and initiatives of agreement on our work in the coming period. With the agreement of all members of the parliamentary delegation, the consensus agreed that formal talks, bilaterally, so all delegations would be held with Yugoslavia, Croatia, Turkey, and there were separate bilateral and individual meetings with dozens of other delegations. I think the climate for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the Council of Europe is very favourable to point out that Bosnia and Herzegovina has carried out a large part of its commitments, particularly the positive involvement of central institutions, i.e. the institution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past 6 months, through the work of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the Parliamentary Assembly. This was short information, with the possibility that I, as a member of a Strasbourg delegation, who was in the Parliamentary delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg, and for staying in Kuwait, might answer your questions, and we can take this into account, and by my logic, it would be good to input, i.e. to step up the procedure through the competent committees, so possibly again, if there is a need in the House to discuss this information and the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u834	I thank Mr. Tokić. Let me say how I understand what we've heard. I think it's perfectly logical to take this, Mr. Tokić's observations and accept it as logical and self-evident, but to accept it now and to conclude that delegations are required to report to the committees, and the Commission and the College will decide which of them, whether all or any of them will go towards Dom. If you agree that this is how we implement it, I'm not going to deny the debate a very important topic, but it was also inconclusive and informative. I don't think there's much need to open the debate. Do you agree? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u835	We voted to refer this point to international activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think with this material this point can handle that name. We received a report on a delegation that was in Kuwait and travelled there 5 days before the deadline for the adoption of the electoral law and received a report from a delegation to the Council of Europe. The point could therefore be called a report on the delegation's stay in Kuwait and a report from the Council of Europe. So as not to get the wrong impression, and it is possible that our Parliament had only these activities. I remind you there was this activity, there were trips to Havana to Iran, Hungary, Zagreb, etc. one large number of activities for a very short period. We, if we want to consider Parliament's international activities, should really have a full play and that when we consider it, we call it a point, and this can be a review of the Kuwait and Council of Europe reports. With this in mind, I am initiating an initiative for the College, together with professional services, to prepare a report for the next session of the entire international activities of parliamentary delegations and delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course 47 to follow this up with information on how much this has cost all these 4-5 months and what has been achieved. I, of course, express my regret that I received a report from our delegation in the Council of Europe during the session. So, it's been almost a month since it happened, even here it says Sarajevo, June 5th that it's written, although it's not signed, but I got it today only during the session. Because of the seriousness of the subject, because of the seriousness of some of the thesis given in this report, I am abstaining from discussion and will present my opinion at the next session. But I can't help but ask how immaterial it is to discuss the electoral law today, if this report says a re-establishment was made until September 1st to pass the electoral law. How immeasurable it is to meet delegates in the House of Peoples what's going on around the election law, who's running these activities and some mystery that someone's doing something, and we need to wait and everything will come. At a time when the public talks about Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' partnership with international institutions, I think that, among other things, the partnership between the institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the partnership within the institutions should also be discussed. We are a few laws today, I would say, and I would like to compromise first of all because there is not enough work on the commissions, which is not insisting enough on compromises, which is not going through the solutions, and in the end we only have a finding of one of the members of the College that not a dozen laws have been passed, or other words for the public to be clear there is a majority that has chosen the College and there is not a majority that votes on the laws, there is not a majority behind one programme on legal projects. Therefore, the public should, therefore, make it very clear to the public that there is no majority here in this parliamentary assembly who is willing to support the necessary laws. There was a majority who only chose the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly. In that situation, I think it is inadmissible to receive the report during the session, a report that deals with such important issues that we do not have at the end of the answer to the question why it is not scheduled to continue the session at which the election law has been discussed and ultimately plan what we will do by 1 September. What activities we're going to take. Because this inertity can ultimately result only with two results or not to adopt an electoral law or to adopt a bad electoral law. I don't think any of that would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u836	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac from your discussion, my two obligations are simple. One cannot change the title of the agenda item we adopted when adopting the agenda, and the other is your initiative, of course, and I suggest that you do not have to repeat it, that I qualify at the last point which will now come as an initiative to prepare a full report on international co-operation at one of the next sessions. Do you agree that this is your initiative and you don't have to go out again? By the way, I don't abuse the chair seats, but we're also all calling for the public. I must say, I do not share your opinion on the functioning of the work and the results of this home. Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić and Spahić signed up. I ask you not to open unnecessary and return electoral law, etc. Make sure we all know what this is about. There's no need. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u837	I just wanted to say that the report was done in a way that the picture of what happened there and no special political assessment was given by any delegation. Why these two reports? These are the two reports of groups that I led in a certain way, or parliamentary groups, and I felt the need to do so. I am not in the position that any aggregate information should be prepared by the College, I think it should be done by the Commission for Foreign Policy. That's why we have a commission, and I'd ask Mr. Genjac, and last time I said the same thing to stick to the subject. Whatever topic he's up against is something important to this college. I guess it's the frustrations from last term. I would really ask that these frustrations be reduced and that Mr. Genjac stick to the agenda. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u838	I thank Tokić. I don't see it as a member of the College. I have to say it's at the College. But here's Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u839	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, regarding these two reports we've received, I'd like to say that, logically, when I get something about it, I'm spinning around and I'm criticizing it. That's a shame, because when we have something, then we need to determine ourselves according to what we have. According to what we didn't get, it's hard to determine. So if we're formulating a point of ambition to hear and read all that now, and we don't have that, there's no way to talk about that other part. So a declassified complete discussion about something that is not there, about what we have to talk about. He had two reports, we accepted them as part of the point. We can only talk about this and I am really like someone who has worked in the past term of this job and who wrote together with all MPs of one and the other home a resolution on foreign policy and co-ordination in foreign policy in 1999-2001. So for two years, he followed the work of the Commission for Foreign Policy and initially worked on this foreign policy committee and when Mr Ilić had the first 2-3 sessions, we adopted a work programme. In the Rules of Tokić, if I have now supported the principle of working with reports, which is normally one democratic thing, I would like to correct so much that in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission, then in that section, to explain to the Commission what jurisdiction is, and that is the working body of Parliament, it is the responsibility to adopt platforms and adopt reports. We therefore have this business matter satisfied with the work of the Foreign Trade and Foreign Affairs Commission. The question is whether it is correct that all the acts that make up the delegation are related to the business. And in this case, Mr Tokić's request was fully justified, as was justly justified for the Commission to adopt these reports previously. And there's the whole problem. The trap is that the Commission has not benefited from its own rules of procedure on work and on the programme of work and authorisation. The Commission must benefit because it is its programme, I am involved, as you well know. It's her business matter, it's the subject of her work, and she has to deal with the subject of her work, because what she's going to do to others. And this should not be burdened with the House of Peoples, but with reports of routine character should be shared as they are sent in informatively, and where we evaluate the Political College as necessary along with the President of the Commission must be made available and time for debate. At any moment 49 all delegates, all 15 delegates should have a report on what Ivanković was doing in Kuwait or what Avdić was doing in Brussels and why he went to Split or Zagreb, etc. So that's what matters. I asked to introduce the so-called so-called institution in this institution. the work protocol between the committees and the House and the College. It's very simple to do, if there's any will in this secretariat. So when the information comes in, it's notational, and when it comes out, it's notable, so everyone has a transparent flow of information. This is what I think, and I want to criticise the secretary of this home public because I have noticed that there are problems in this communication, and I have no other authority than the secretary of this house, and since we have the organisational structure of the secretariats of this home and I have noticed that there are things that I believe are not good for the work of the Commission, at least the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we talked about it yesterday, and I also see in the commission that I've been from whose work I've been getting different experiences in the past, that these things don't work. If the delegation submits a report to Parliament in the procedure, the president and the members of the commission must receive the information immediately by automated means. Another can't happen that the brilliant dactylographers I've known well here for years, decades, from the previous 74th to 78th, the same person does it write that it was a report on June 5th, and it's actually about the Assembly held at the end of June 23rd. Since I've been with these colleagues on the Council of Europe, I must say that's probably July 5th. As for the principle of work, therefore, I would ask the College to make sure that the secretary and services of the professional and secretaries of the commission organise to work very precisely in this work called the House of Peoples. It is also quite clear that this report is submitted by a delegation composed of representatives of two homes, but it is a unique delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe. It would be natural to ensure that, when we have joint sessions and some other form of work, such reports are adopted at this joint session. It was an ideal opportunity when, with Mr. Lord Rasel Džonston's stay in Sarajevo last week, we could invite him to a session of the joint Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in which, apart from the House of Representatives, he would host the House of Peoples. Because, literally, as far as I know, Mr. Lord Rasel Džonston's protocol activities hosted Mr. Šimić from the beginning to the end, as did Mr. Avdić. It makes no sense that no 15 delegates from the House of People were invited to attend the meeting at which Mr. Lord Rasel Džonston, the chairman of the European Parliamentary Assembly. That doesn't make any sense. I don't think it was a minimum so-called. the obligatory behaviour of one and the other at home to invite us to listen to the presentation of the Presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which we are talking about here and the home in which we want to join the Council of Europe. I must say that the report is very exhaustive, correct and in that context when it comes to this report I would like to say just one assessment. At the time of this delegation's stay and in the past 7-8 days and more in talks with Mr Rasel Džonston and other representatives of delegations in the Council of Europe, I must say that what is written here is essentially appropriate to what is the role and task of the delegation to do and has nothing to do but to create bilateral contacts to inform its home in due time, that means the House of Nations and the House of Representatives. So that's one positive side of this report. The negative side of the report is simply that our public, but also Bosnia and Herzegovina does not contribute to the work of such delegations and missions or representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. If you look closely, from the beginning to the end of our term of office to this moment there are no two information in the media that is too much about our representatives, there were 50 words about the House of Speakers, Mr Šimić or Mr Avdić or any other member of the House. Parliamentary diplomacy has been underestimated in the political sense of the word, and the first step to any cooperation in the world is parliamentary diplomacy. That is why I would strongly affirm the role of the commission and would strongly affirm the work of every delegate and MP in international co-operation, because I believe that this is of crucial importance for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the predsjedništvo and Parliament and here and the Commission, and therefore I think that this next item of the agenda, which will continue at the next session, I hope, this second part that is not prepared, when it is carefully prepared by all, I would like to ask once again the public ministry of foreign affairs to provide insight into information that is relevant and relevant for the countries in which we have gone for both the bilateral part and the multilateral part of our cooperation. This is how when you visit the Suss Reti delegation no longer acts fully enough and gives us the right picture of the cooperation and work of our state institutions and bodies with other countries in the world and the team supports these two information I would like to invite you to act practically and pragmaticly in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course. This means that we are pushing parliamentary diplomacy into the place it belongs to, and this is a very high treatment in other countries and Bosnia and Herzegovina should respect it in its own ranks. It's the only recommendation you'd like to make on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u840	Thank you, Mr. Spahić. We here had a point relatively modestly formulated, it is a reference to international co-operation with a focus on Strasbourg, that is what Mr. Tokić told us. I think we can take this desire to be further informed about the fact that Mr. Genjac's initiative is still going to be serious, although this has been serious. So do you agree that we're going to the last 13 points of the agenda? Ad. 13. The initiatives and questions of the envoys received one answer. Mr. Divković was directed to you. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u841	I'll just remind you it was a matter of technical nature, and it's about parking. I am pleased with the answer, I only hope that what is written there will be quickly realised and that the agreement will be reached that the envoys and MPs have a place to park cars when they come to the meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u842	And the answer is something. So the initiatives are at stake. You have an initiative, Mr Spahić. Here you go, short and clear, if you can pray.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u843	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that I have asked the Council of Ministers twice for the Minister of European Integration, 51 Mr. Mikerević Dragan to address Parliament's House of Peoples and the House of Representatives with information that clearly states what the preparations are and what the plans and projects of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the country of the Co-chair of the Second Working Table of Economic Cooperation and Development are. I think that's it. So, I want to draw your attention to the fact, so just that I called on that on time, asking that we get to that document, so some brief information, and at all, about the preparations before the process begins, in order to say the work organised by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I underline today that July is almost the end of July, that we are almost one month out of these six months of co-chairship, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives and the public has no information on what plans and projects the Council of Ministers has in the area of economic cooperation in Southeast Europe and development. I did it with a full sense of responsibility, of course, because we adopted a resolution on economic and social policy and strategy as information about BiH's economic development over the next 4 years. So, I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, this House of People to urge the Council of Ministers, to prepare and forward this information before the short or long vacations to this Parliament. Under 1. And under 2. I would like to inform you that on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we have concluded that my proposal for constitutional amendments to the Constitution, which passed on to the Commission by an authorised proposing and in line with constitutional solutions that say it is in accordance with the Constitution, therefore with the constitutional basis, is currently blocked because the answer to Mr. Ilija Šimić's question did not arrive from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I would like to say that yesterday the Commission decided to request Mr. Šimić as chairman at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and to give his opinion on the launch of the public hearing on the amendments to the BiH Constitution. The Commission will therefore wait until that answer and then open the assumptions that you will be given a conclusion that we will continue to hold a debate in line with the harmonised positions of all three clubs that make up this home. Again, please, Mr Šimić, make another effort for the BiH presidency, as Mr Mihajlović and the Council of Ministers have responded to your request to answer and to what you have sent them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u844	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u845	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will not launch an initiative to change the Rules of Procedure regarding the duration of the debate. She's limited in replicas, in the case of objections she's not, in the first reporting she shouldn't do it, but I'm asking all my colleagues to take care of the length of the discussion. What I want to do as an initiative is to specify what Dr. Genjac was talking about. I'm looking for information - how many delegations have travelled abroad by name and last name and where, on what basis, who has made a decision on this, what are the results and how much has it cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u846	Thank you. Mr. Novaković answered. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u847	Since I initially submitted an initiative on a statement on one conclusion, I would like first this initiative to be directed by the College to the House of Peoples, not to the House of People, that is to say, to alter the division towards the College and the second one in the memo above is the head of the Republic of Serbia's Club of Delegates, the head of the Club of Serbian Delegates, or delegates of the Serb people. Correction and addressed to the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u848	Thank you very much. Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u849	I will not launch new initiatives or ask delegate questions until I get an answer to the one I have already referred to. I would only ask my colleagues, since it is everyone's personal right to refer what I have written in writing as a proposal to give up one month's fee, especially for the month of June, because they were then floods in Bosnia and Herzegovina and regardless of whether there is no institution that has a jury account or where I would like to be helped by the floods in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And since it is most often done in refugee and poorest families, I believe that my colleagues, led by responsibility to the people who chose them and all that they advocate in their work and guided by a single human line, will honor it and will listen to this appeal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-24-0.u850	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question, start an initiative? He doesn't want to. At the end of the day, gentlemen, allow me to invite you to cooperate for the summer. Leave the addresses if you're going to travel, please be in disposition every day in some way. I know it's not very comfortable, but we'll be busy this summer, and I'm guessing we'll be sitting in the next 10 to 15 days. The college and I will personally use the business of any deadline that is the shortest in case of need, so I ask you nicely to be constantly available to us. Thank you for your constructive work session is over. The session was completed at 1400 hours.
