ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4781	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 13th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. ...the chairmanship of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency has been invited. I welcome them and see them here, chaired by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina also, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, representatives of the EU Monitoring Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina and representatives of other international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Representatives of public information were also invited to monitor the session in a media way. I warmly welcome everyone and wish for successful work. I agree that there are 39 MPs attending the House today, with the absence of the session announced by MPs Mijatović Mirko, Branislav Lolić and Ramiz Vilić. For today's session, gentlemen, you have received a draft agenda in the opening call that came to you ten days ago. However, in the meantime, he is aware of the deep fact that efforts are being made and simple talks are being held on reaching a political consensus on the Council of Ministers' Election Law at yesterday's session decided to refer the Electoral Law to the House of Representatives under Article 105. The proposal for an election law and in this context are certain that the election agenda of the session, which today is scheduled for the 13th session of the House of Representatives, has been radically changed. The Council of Ministers did so and we also have before us a draft electoral law. Today at 10 o'clock we had a session of the Užeg College at which we tried to agree on the holding of this session as well as the inclusion in the agenda of the Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the Election Law. He is no longer disputed because a member of 105 undertakes the dom of Speakers to present directly at the House's meeting a request from the Council of Ministers to vote on him and to hold a debate and hold a vote on the document and text we call the Proposal for an electoral law. In this context of the agenda we have established in such a way that it is in shape and form as it is before you. Today, we also held a session of the Expansive College, trying to reach a political consensus in general about the proposed agenda and how we work today's session. Unfortunately, as usual, we did not have a full political consensus, most of the votes, we simply defined the draft agenda that was recently divided and which is in front of you. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Representatives, 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law (a) discussion and adoption of the Council of Ministers' request for the Proposal for an Election Law to be considered in one reading pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, b) debate on a statement on the Proposal for an Election Law pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, 3. Information on the rotation of the chair of the House of Representatives as referred to in Article 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution and Articles 4 and 24. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives and 4. MPs' questions and answers. Viewing that this agenda has been set up rationally and that it allows for the functioning of the House of Representatives and the reply, above all, to the request of the Council of Ministers. I also have to state the fact that it was put under a questionnaire and maintaining this session, the way it was scheduled. In the invitation you received that by Article 25 and Article 47 point (1) and (3). Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives that this session is scheduled. The three laws on the agenda were approved by the House of Representatives' College in parliamentary procedure. The orientation day of the House of Representatives meeting was agreed between August 20th and August 25th. In this context, I felt it was necessary to act in continuity and to schedule this session using the powers of members 25 and 47, and in this context I believe and I am convinced that this session also has full legitimacy and legality in order to maintain and implement such agenda. It is not a burning point to note that, for the right to this view, Article 139 also gives us. A Rules of Procedure where the Council of Ministers may seek and request an emergency session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means absolutely no way of simple implementation of the agenda. So, I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda that I've read and which is before you. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Ambassador Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4782	Gentlemen, members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honourable MPs. The SDA MPs' club at yesterday's session discussed the agenda for this assembly, which has been changed absolutely today. Discussing this agenda until yesterday 3, which was funded by the SDA Club, was the view that such a agenda should be complemented by a special point and the first point of violation of the High Representative's decision to limit the allocation of land in social property. It seemed to us that this item of the agenda was more important than all of these points that here today, the College, in the narrow motion, derogated. So let us since today, after preparing for this session, the Club held another meeting and remained in the view that this issue is being treated today that only a brief explanation of the need for discussion on this agenda point. The High Representative for BiH, by means of his decision, has banned, or restricted, land in social property with the aim of preventing discrimination against citizens, especially refugees and settlements on their property. It is important to know that this decision, that this decision works retroactively from 6.4.992. The OHR forwarded instructions to all the presidents of the municipalities in Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, which detailed the procedure required by the competent authorities to carry out the land's assignment in social property. We're not talking about private property land because it can't be assigned, but it's a massive phenomenon that such cases happen. The procedure provides that the municipal authorities intending to allocate this land must submit requests in written form to the nearest OHR office and provide clear and convincing evidence that the proposed award is legitimate, transparent and procedurally correct, and that it does not contain discriminatory actions and that it is in the best interests of the public. As an example of opposite behavior, I quote the following. On 30.4.2000, the RS government then shared 2,048 parcels exclusively to citizens of Serbian nationality. According to some estimates, that number has been doubled to this day. Based on our data only in the municipality of Podrinje about 5,450 parcels, Zvornik 2,600, Bratunac 600, Vlasenica 450, Osmaki 150, Koraj 150, Bijeljina 1,500. In Kotorsko near Doboj, whose pre-war residents and damaged land owners protested several times in front of OHR buildings in Sarajevo, about 300 plots were illegally awarded. Despite a ban on the High Representative, it has been proven that the construction of Serbian houses in Kotorsko continues and even speeded up after the ban. All this points to the elaborate ethnically-owned demographic engineering that would legalise the results of ethnic cleansing carried out during the aggression on BiH, i.e. favour the policy of staying at the expense of return. That is why we express disappointment that the College did not foresee as a special point, the current point at this session, and we ask that we fix this correction by putting this item on the agenda as I said the first item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4783	I thank Ambassador Borić. Is there anyone else on the agenda for the intervention? poslanik Titan, Miro Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4784	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I'm here to begin speaking at all, or to ask, what I'm interested in is how this session has been called. If, under Article 25, point (b) is replaced by the following: and Article 47. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. How was she called so I could speak at all? I'm waiting for the President's answer, or the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4785	You asked the question. Here you go. You'll just get an answer. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4786	I would only blame Mr. Borić, I mean, as far as kotorsko was concerned when he mentioned it. In Kotorsko, houses were built down by the Bosna River on the land of the State Association of Agricultural Bosnakop, with the consent of all authorities etc. And it is not true that they are building refugees from Bosnak in the populated town of Kotorsko Gora where the houses of Bošnjak are, but are building on the clean land of the Bosnakop Association from Doboj. Now whether or not there are certain problems, but these are already the foundations, these are houses next to the Bosnia River on land that was cooperative and state-owned. Now whose time was 50 years ago, 300 whose story was about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4787	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4788	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, esteemed guests, gentlemen of the presidency. From the session to the session, we face such preferences that it becomes questionable whether more a man who appreciates his own dignity and who can participate in the work at all. And that's true, I document it the following way. We've been sent a call like this. This call for a session on my question at the Enlarged College did not approve 2 of the 3 members, although it is up to the Rules of Procedure to obtain consent. Furthermore, the legal basis for calling this session is all the points, it's like if you write a letter, you start with a big letter, and you end up putting the points, the questionnaires, the screamers, and to whom it's appropriate to schedule it where it needs it. That's what this session is called for as far as legal grounds are concerned. And beyond that, we're getting this kind of paper today that has nothing and that's different significantly from the original paper. No signature, no nothing, literally nothing. And then finally, as officially comes this paper now on a bench that has no legal basis, no signatures, no stamps, no single point from the convened session. There's not a single one except for the record. Here. This is what gentlemen from international institutions in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament are doing. And this is called the progress that has been made. This is called something else, gentlemen. This is the creation of a chaotic state by the recipe of someone, and I'd like to know whose. Who needs this chaotic state? Furthermore, here, gentlemen are presented with inaccuracies by the chairperson who is being called, strangely speaking to article 139 that the Council of Ministers has the right to request, in accordance with Article 5 39, the emergency sowing of the session, which is not true. In Article 139, it says that only the Council of Ministers can propose points and that no one has ever disputed, and I read that article to see how we are here today, and the stenogram will show deception. The article states that within the framework of its rights and duties set out in the Constitution and in the law of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers may submit proposals to the House and deliver an opinion on draft laws which have not been submitted by the Council of Ministers. Second, he may request the call to the House to discuss the issue he wants to make and to give Dom his position. There's no urgent word anywhere, and no one has challenged this. But, please, here in the stenogram you can clearly see that this is about deception. Furthermore, here is also forgotten about the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been broken and I don't know for what time and I don't know how long it will be like that and I don't know who supports it, and why does it support it, what are the objectives of such support? Therefore, a session is called in which a call is given and that the material for the session can be delivered must be delivered at least 10 days before maintenance. We're talking about today's agenda, which I don't know who he sent it for, and I don't know if it's even a flyer, or if it's the agenda, because there's nothing on it. This is how we got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4789	I beg your intervention, 3 minutes, I beg you, Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4790	Please on this paper, a piece of paper has no dots, no material has come for this point. Please, gentlemen, article 105 is being abused, because it's not written anywhere in the legal procedure to skip the commission phase, it's deliberately skipped. It doesn't say anything, if it says read it and we can read it one more time. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has not received this material which is in charge of this law. She didn't say anything about him. It's on the agenda. Who has the right to violate the Poslonik of Procedure by which this law has no justification also prescribed by the Rules of Procedure which must contain a certain number of answers to questions. There's no such thing as this law. And at the end of the day, gentlemen, I think this, this part of the agenda is quite accurate when they're filed with the House. Council of Ministers under Article 105. He's making a request to the House. And now he's filed it with the House right now, and then it's said at the next session to discuss it. This is today being included in the agenda. Such an important thing, by which gentlemen have changed exactly what we need to agree on. I don't think there's any basis to argue like this. Please follow the Rules of Procedure. If this is not to be done, the public must be informed that this is a deliberate obstruction of the work of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that the Club of MPs will, on behalf of the Club, want to ask why it is not put on the agenda but several sessions of our request – a vote of mistrust to the Kolegijum that works in this way. You can't work like this anymore. Gentlemen, this is one intention. We don't think there's any need to discuss the Electoral Law. But please, earlier election law has been proposed by the Council of Ministers and the Alliance, so they turned it down. Now they're supposed to be doing something new the way I brought it out. I think six have to answer the questions - why is it against the Rules of Procedure and from the session to the session? I demand an explicit responsibility which has already been sought in advance in front of the SDS MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4791	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Is anyone else answering for the agenda intervention? Ambassador Emina Začiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4792	I welcome all present. A colleague of Banjac read only one part of the 139th article you noticed. According to Article 139, the Council of Ministers may request that it put one item in the agenda of the House. In such a case, the requested item will be placed on the agenda of the House. So there's no choice but to be imperative. You didn't read the whole article to keep me from misinformation, I'm just finishing it. You know. The Council of Ministers can therefore ask the House for one item of the agenda to be included and the House has no choice but to put it on the agenda. How she'll move on now. Whether it's an emergency procedure or not, I don't know, but this is a misinformation by Mr. Banjac for the whole public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4793	Replica. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4794	Please. First of all, it seems to me that the distinguished lady is a lawyer and I find that profession really strange. There's a nice standing, it can, and it doesn't have to be such questions and there's another thing not to mention the word urgently and she's read it. I don't see any reason. Please, she calls it misinformation and allows herself not to be heard. I think it would be good for you to listen to what you said, because it's nice to say, once again, there's nowhere urgent and there's no way. I do not dispute, I once again said that the Council of Ministers may request, but there is a procedure for calling the session, there is a procedure for putting it on the agenda. It is only a sign that the point proposed by the Council of Ministers cannot be removed, not to skip all possible procedures under the Rules of Procedure. Please again point b. regularizes it and says – It can ask for a session call, please see where it is, if it has written. Please be informed here, let's see if this should be put on the agenda to consider the question and the other one, may ask to place one item on the agenda of the House in such a case the requested item should be classified. Please see the paperwork and see if it went according to procedure. There's nowhere urgent and nowhere to be found. Please see where the paperwork for what it says here is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4795	Thank you. I owe you a few answers. Article 25 c. says – on the powers of the chairman of the House, he participates in the preparations of the call and chair the meetings of the Colleges. Two o'clock. – in the exercise of the abovementioned powers, chairing a consultation with the Vice-President. He's consulting. Article 47 says the following - in urgent cases and at the request of at least 10 MPs, a point, a vice-president or by his own decision, the chair may convene a meeting within 10 days. In that case, the session agenda may be proposed during its maintenance. Article 47(3) Article 105 is very clear and does not predict the regular procedure of the commission phase and everything else that MP Banjac is talking about. Article 105 under 1. – when it presents a proposal for a high-level emergency law on which the Council of Ministers sent and explained to us yesterday, or a bill which is not so complex that it can only be adopted or rejected in full by the Council of Ministers by written request of the House to consider it in a single reading. The requested one. Under 2. – the request from the previous point is submitted directly to the Chairman of the House at his first next session. The House will decide on the request after the debate. And below 3. – when an appropriate debate is carried out on this request, it will be put to the vote. If the House is adopted, it will proceed directly with the debate and vote on the bill. Amendments to the law are not subject to. So there is no regular commission phase and procedures to consider emergency legal projects under Article 105 or projects that are so simple that they do not seek simply and can be adopted in one reading. So everything is clear and legal and legitimate. Here's Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4796	Mr. Chairman, it is not controversial, hears the public and hears the MPs what you say. That's not controversial. I'm looking for a stenogram of what you've told me so far, and I want it published in the media as it's done here, and I want you, sir, as an MP, to draw attention to continued abuses and intentional ones. First, it does not say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure to skip the commission phase, as it is said that all the laws of the Constitutional and Legal Commission must give an opinion on the constitutional basis. The fact that there are no amendments, it says in Article 105 that MPs will declare it, but it has not been skipped. The second thing about calling a session is that you deliberately skip all decisions to the Kolegijum, so everything makes a consensus, and you take it as a right to cheat again here, you won't read that part, even though you used it to call the point of Article 37, and you won't read it, you don't read the emergency procedure, and we know that this session isn't called for by an emergency procedure. And why do you do it all eight, once again I ask for the responsibility that has already been put forward and I demand that the vote be put on that trust and put it on the agenda, because we have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure, the procedure has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4797	The SDS MP sought the responsibility of the College at the Enlarged College at one of the previous sessions. I raised that question and asked for the president of the SDS Club to be declared on the agenda. poslanik Banjac, the president of the SDS Club, withdrew his proposal, or put it on hold. I'm not sure. He put him on hold. So I asked to put the dots on the agenda, and MP Banjac just pulled it out of that meeting. I'm sorry. It's all clear. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4798	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I want first of all to look back at the way this house works, and I think that this kind of break that was so unnecessary in the previous period, and let's see again offers us conflict situations on the occasion of coming to the law that this country needs. For this country at this point, the more important laws we have today removed from this session, which is the Transport Act, i.e. to regulate the entry into Bosnia and Herzegovina where we lose and how much resources. Then I ask, or I underline the position of the SDA Club again, that we want to discuss today the violation of the High Representative's Decision on the use, or allocation of land for individual housing. Namely, for both housing and business facilities. We'll offer you the information we've created, so we're asking it to be placed on the agenda. Then on the subject of today's agenda, who will explain to me, who here today will explain to us what changes are made in the Electoral Law, because we haven't had a chance to read. Surely, or probably no one can explain it so quickly. Then, on the basis of Article 105, the law is also how complex it is. If it involves urgency, then this complexity excludes it from the emergency procedure. A member of 105 cannot be applied at this time. And the second question is whether a member, whether the law proposed today involves itself, or whether it seeks to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people. Seems to me, I didn't get a chance to read it, 'cause I got the law 20 minutes ago. Once again, I underline, seek the agenda point – violation of the High Representative's Decision on the availability of social land.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4799	Chairman Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4800	Dear President, honourable MPs, I believe that the Electoral Law is one of the very important laws for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that will fatally determine the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its internal arrangement and position of constitutional peoples, and I do not see the need at this time to simply renegotiate the election law by introducing the procedure of Article 105. I think we're enough and a full member of 104 if we trust each other, if we believe we're doing something good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we're doing something to cloud, just make it so we have the Election Law, and what it's going to produce, I think we're wrong. I'm not ready to simply get election law at 12 o'clock at 12 and a half and in 1 to plead on it. It takes me half a day to read, to compare what the text is. Is this the text that I voted on in my own time, and those who propose today did not vote? I think it's very important every point, every word. We were told there was a change in our extended college. Just by reviewing one article that it's not just a change, there are some other changes. I just don't know why we don't trust each other. Those who say there is no need to discuss the law, no amendments should be submitted, they are in the majority. Don't let them take it. But for those of whom this law is fatal to whom it is important, which determines the position, it determines the direction of further action, in the end it determines the political moves of the next period. Whether to draw moves that in one direction or in another, in the direction you'll say better. So don't make us just say take it or leave it. It is also a matter of the Constitutional Commission whether these members are in accordance with the Constitution. Can we predict for the future some things and ignore the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all swear on the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, swearing to the Dayton Agreement. We take it down on the first step, but I'll discuss it depending on how we discuss it. I believe that we should stick to existing constitutional solutions, with which I am not happy and satisfied at all, but I will defend all possible political means the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the equality of three constituent peoples, including institutional equality. I think you know what that means. This means the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina must be foreseen in any law in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for the future, if there is a change, I hope it will be, it will be incorporated into the laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4801	I would like to thank President Ljubić. No one's answering for a word anymore. Here we go again. I'm asking you this is just about the agenda, this is just the agenda. I've given you an answer already, enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4802	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, since your answer has not been reasoned, or is not based on the call for this session, since 2 members of the College say they have not given consent, or have not consulted on the call for 13th, or in connection with the call for this 13th session, and you are calling for Article 25. 1.b. and Article 47(1) and (3) where, in 47, you need to have the consent of this college to call this session on the agenda that we have received. So, given that it has also been amended, I propose that the College agree on the old agenda that we have received, and since we also had an amendment and addition to this new agenda, and the election law, which is one of the important documents immediately after the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was put in place half an hour ago, and there is no basis for Article 39 to which the Council of Ministers is called. He can go after the emergency procedure, but again at the next session. It is now voted to propose that the electoral law be removed from the agenda and that enough space, at least 24 hours for MPs, to study such an important law that will further determine the direction of Bosnia and Herzegovina and allow for discussion if possible to go according to Article 104, and not according to Article 105 of the same urgent procedure, in order to allow for the real amendment, the amendment to this electoral law, at least for those who do not make up the Alijansa, or for the majority in this House, because it is important for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially for representatives of the Croatian people, or representatives of the HDZ. I propose, that the College agrees with the agenda that has already been sent to us, and that everything that has been amended, i.e. we have found that the article also makes me 11.10 where 3% had to be given a representative, i.e. the party. It seemed to me an amendment then SDA which was also deleted, and we were not told that it had been deleted. And we are not sure that there are yet some articles that have been amended and we cannot vote for this law if it goes this way, and I believe that not only is it to postpone this part, but this electoral law that was very important was to be given for public debate, and we have had enough time and we could do it at the expense of rest, and bring the electoral law within what we needed. We have no excuse to go to ad hoc, break things over our knees, and pass the Electoral Law, and the MPs are unable to even read what it is in the Electoral Law, that they must vote for it or against it if it really does. My proposal is to remove the Electoral Law and bring the agenda into line with the Kolegija and the agenda that we received before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4803	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4804	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am really wondering if we are well-intentioned, whether we wish well for our peoples we represent here and for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Two and a half months we wait for the session and then we come, we all know exactly what kind of teat and we're trying to make a made-up variant to look for an emergency procedure today. I got here on the bench, so when I got in at 12 o'clock first election law that absolutely none of us read. I am now asking here, and perhaps someone, perhaps you from the Alliance have had 20 days in front of you, we from the opposition do not and I wonder is it possible that in this way we are discussing the Electoral Law? For these reasons, I consider and support those who have said that if we go to present Article 139, which my colleague Banjac explicitly explained here. If we want a member of 105, what did fellow Titan say, you would have to step down from the College, take one break, and take the same route as the Rules of Procedure says. I don't know if there are any people ready to come forward about this law that they haven't even read here today and don't God bring it. I call once again on the College to declare itself on this matter and determine by which member of the Rules of Procedure we will discuss the Election Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4805	Is anyone else answering for word? He's not answering thank you. We're finishing the debate on the day-greeds. We don't have an additional statement or a change in the Council's position. The Council of Ministers sent a clear memo where it says -- the Council of Ministers set up a proposal for an election law in Bosnia and Herzegovina at a session of 20.8. As regards the proposal for a high-level emergency law, the Council of Ministers proposes that it be considered as an emergency procedure under the provisions of Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, chaired by Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. So we are obliged to make known about this request by the Council of Ministers and the agenda in question. So I'm putting it on the agenda. Who is it to adopt the proposed agenda? Who's for please? Please have your first agenda. I'll put it on. The agenda of what I read. Who's for please? Thank you. Who is against the agenda proposed for today's session, readjusted and corrected? Thank you. Anybody got any abstentions? No abstentions. 12 It's necessary, right, an entity vote. Can we move on to an entity statement? Who is from Republika Srpska to adopt the proposed agenda corrected and completed? Who's in favour of the Republika Srpska area? Thank you. Who is from the Federation to adopt the agenda? We have the results of the vote. Of the 38 MPs present, 22 against 16. According to entities in the Federation's voting area, 17 in Republika Srpska 5. I apologize for six Mirjanić you didn't count. I find that the proposed agenda for the 13th session has been adopted. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Representatives, 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law (a) the debate and adoption of the Council of Ministers' request for the Proposal for an Election Law to be considered in one reading pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, b) Discussion on the declaration of the draft electoral law pursuant to Article 105. House of Representatives, 3. Information on the rotation of the chair of the House of Representatives as referred to in Article 4. The BiH Constitution and Articles 4 and 24. Rules of Procedure on the work of House of Representatives 4. MPs' questions and answers. I am obliged to present a proposal to the president of the SDA's MPs' club to supplement the agenda. So the College, meanwhile, has informally agreed and suggested to the SDA MPs' Club for the next ten days, will be a meeting of the House of Representatives. With the preparation of material on such an important item of the agenda, we suggest that it be included in the next session of the House of Representatives, if possible. Here's Ambassador Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4806	The SDA MPs' club is on the stand that this is an important issue and we are asking to vote on this proposed agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4807	So once again the proposal of the SDA Parliament Club to consider and put an end to the agenda, i.e. Analysis, i.e. the problem of breach of the decision of the High Representative and of the OHR on the allocation of land in social property for individual and residential construction. This is the item of the agenda that has been specified and formulated by the SDA. 13 Please, can we say who is for this point to be put on the agenda? I'm sorry, who's in? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What's that? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. An entity majority check is necessary. Who is from the Federation area to put the item in the agenda? Suggestion. Thank you. Who is from Republika Srpska to put the item in the agenda? Unfortunately, we can find out that we don't have an entity majority for this proposal. It remains that, as a committee, the College should review and simply agree on the next session of the House of Representatives in order to prepare a proposal in writing with an explanation, etc. Thank you. ... From the site – we can assign the Council of Ministers to prepare... We can do that, there's no dilemma at all. We'll leave it to the College to review the form of the preparation of the material, etc. We can move on to the realization of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the House of Representatives. You've got your books in front of you with your 12th session. Any objections or suggestions? Here you go. Damir Mašić, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4809	I have only one objection to the minutes from the 12th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly held on 12th, 18th July, pardon. And my remarks refer to the final point. I asked a parliamentary question even in writing and verbally. You can check, but it wasn't included in the record my question, so, I would ask if you could include that question I asked at a regular session and adopt this report in such a form. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4810	I thank Ambassador Mašić. Anyone else answer for a word on the record? There isn't. Can we go with this one? I apologize, Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4811	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable members of the Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I just have one question about the record-making technique. Who, and on the basis of what criteria, determines whose discussions make the record complete, and whose names only indicate that they were saying something? Either everything has to be written, or nothing has to be written. But I can't, I like this one going like this, this one I don't like going like. Please, here are the documentation of pages 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4812	I thank Ambassador Đedović. We'll review the protocol procedure. How could you not? Is anyone else answering for word? Thank you. Can we, with the suggestion of Mr Mašić and the suggestion of MP Đedović, review the methodology and how to reach the minutes. Who's to adopt this record? A record from the 12th session of the House of Representatives. Who's for please? Thank you. Do you mind? No one's against it. Who's restrained? I don't think you need an entity vote, do you? Of the 37 in attendance, 27 voted against, there was no one with abstentions. I konstatuj that the minutes from the 12-session House of Representatives were adopted by the House of Representatives. Ad.2. Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law (a) the debate and adoption of the Council of Ministers' request for the Proposal for an Election Law to be considered in one reading pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, If the debate and the statement are positive, we will be able to move to point b) of the debate on the statement of the draft electoral law in accordance with Article 105. House of Representatives, 15 I call on the representative of the Council of Ministers to submit an introductory presentation and simply make the basic corrections to the initial proposal for an election law that was in parliamentary procedure. Here you go. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4813	Dear chairman, honourable MPs, esteemed presidency, fellow ministers, esteemed guests. At his session yesterday, the Council of Ministers discussed again the Election Law and after certain political consultations that were conducted between political parties in the meantime, unanimously decided to re-election the electoral law into a procedure with certain amendments and as an integral text of the new laws today was shared to you, referred to in the debate. Why today and why in article 105? First, why today, because this law is necessary to organise the 2002 elections and show the world that we are democratic countries and that citizens can democratically through elections to choose power. Any prolonging would be questioned by what all political parties are less sworn to, that is, the 2002 elections, if we do not have the basic law of the Electoral Law on the basis of which we can conduct democratic elections. It is known that the international community has handed this job over to us and that we must take responsibility in our own hands and pass the Election Law and organise democratic elections under our own law, not according to the OSC rules that the elections have been made from Dejton to this day. Because we have to bring at least 35 sublegal acts so that the elections can be held in 2002. It's a big deal, and that job needs to be done by the authorities at all levels. From the municipality to here the authorities, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities, etc. So that's one big job we have to do if we're going to do it, and we have an obligation to hold elections in 2002 at the end of 2002. Any prolonging, therefore, would be questioned by the adoption of these very significant sublegal acts following us and which, if we adopt the law today or these days and at the House of Peoples, we must immediately approach the adoption of these sublegal acts that take time, in order that, according to some prognosis, we have already come into teat, or we are late with these activities, if we intend to, once again, and we have an obligation to hold elections in 2002. Because we want to build one image of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a normal country, and this also has to do with foreign investments that we have talked about several times in this House, to show the world we have these fundamental laws, which every country should have, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we all agreed that after the Constitution, the electoral law is one of the most significant documents of each country, and I hope Bosnia and Herzegovina too. Because we have a chance to be seen in the Council of Europe. We have been given a correctional exam to pass such a law in August to take advantage of this opportunity in September for Bosnia and Herzegovina to become a member of the Council of Europe, and there have been a lot of debates in this House and I think that all the political parties and you who are sitting here are behind us and we appreciate that it is one of our best interests to become a member of the Council of Europe for many other reasons that I would not want to take up time for you on this occasion too. Because we have a chance in this case to discuss 16 other things with diplomats, with those who want to come to Bosnia and Herzegovina to invest their resources, to talk about the visa regime in the end line, on which our citizens have a lot of objections and demands. And it's one chance for us to do some jobs that make Bosnia and Herzegovina a democratic state. Why, by Article 105. This law has been debated in this House and it is almost in the same text as a small amendment that I am about to tell you about, which you are familiar with. You have entered this law so far into the essence of this law that now that the lists see that it is in fact 99% of the same text that we had when we postponed the debate at the last Parliament. But because of certain political differences that we couldn't agree on then, we have now come to a political compromise and we have come to a solution that I hope you here today can make acceptable and that this one law can be passed. So there's no need for a new study of the law that you've already served and with which you're well-acquainted, well-acquainted. The changes on the basis of, between what was, what you had and what you discussed, and the one we're offering today are contained in all three items. Chapter 11 of Sub-chapter 11.1, this is a novelty. And I'd like to ask if you don't have the Electoral Law as it is here that I'm showing you, that the Professional Service will share this material so you can keep track of it. Now, this is a corrected text, readjusted by some errors that have been subdued in the material that has been shared to you. So he would ask the Professional Service to share this immediately. Did you share this?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4814	I beg you, I beg you. Just to finish Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4815	The next correction, which was Article 20 paragraph 8(3), was a correction. That's what you have in the materials. So Article 20, point 8. Here, I'll read that attitude. So Article 20, point 8. point 3. - Nationals of Bosnia and Herzegovina who use a house or apartment over which there is no right to ownership or residential law, and an executive document has been issued by the competent judicial or administrative authority and attestation of that house or apartment or decision of the Commission for property claims of displaced persons, has no right to vote in the place of residence until it leaves the foreign property and can register for elections only in the municipality in which it has the last residence according to the latest census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That position is included in this Article 20th point 8 and that is what is different from the previous law. And point, i.e. Article 20 point 15a. The election will be held in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the final regulation of the process of election of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are the only changes compared to the text that you adopted well in the past, i.e. at one of the previous sessions when you discussed the course of Proposal 17 of the Bosnia and Herzegovina election law. Please. It's on if you have this material. What you made an observation was included, it was accepted, and we had no reason to change that. If you have this material. No, no, it hasn't changed. Nothing else has changed except what I told you. So it's just these changes. I expect today's Parliament to have in mind what I was talking about and I expect a high degree of agreement, understanding and that the long-standing work on the Election Law today will be crowned by its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4816	I thank Minister Mihajlović. poslanik Banjac on behalf of the SDS MPs' club wants a break. So we're giving up the break here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4817	Dear gentlemen, there is no need for this to be a farce that is completely clear and completely visible. And here's an official confession that the MPs have been deposed and shared on the benches. Now it's not that anymore, but this second we've got a text, which he wants to vote on today. You gentlemen, of course, have a majority. I've been thinking about a break to discuss what to do next, but there's no need. I don't blame those who have a clear goal, let them have it. If they found the subjects, and they found the subjects to do it, go ahead. But, gentlemen, here's an explanation that says that the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be elected in this way and questioning the House of Peoples as regulated by the Constitution, nowhere in the world the Constitution of entities can change the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the way it's supposed to work. You work gentlemen, first a few tens of thousands of people are in a dispute and the MP one is in a dispute that sold the property and now he repents and now the value of the money rises and today he asks for that law to be adopted in such a way. Nowhere in the world is it known that the electoral right to vote is punishable. So, electoral law is punished in an extremely bold way. Tens of thousands of people put in. I ask you once again, gentlemen, where will you vote, which is the place of residence of over 7 or 8, 6-7 villages that have been kidnapped property for airports. They're not here. They're at the airport. Where the ones who sold the property legally will vote, or replaced it. And now they're supposed to repent and they're taking away their money. These are the gentlemen's goals that want to be achieved in this way by passing the law. I can only tell you and this will be recorded in history and this will be recorded as one period that has brought destabilisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I say gentlemen that this work of Parliament brings destabilisation. I don't know who's heating her up, but I have a right to ask who's doing her and other people's children. I have a right, because this country is as mine as many others, as all those who live in it. But this is destabilizing. Do the gentlemen as you know. Of course, I don't want to say any more than that you've made it impossible for me to, you know, stop me from illegally pleading on the law, looking for the best solutions. Last time you guys were the same people who were looking for what you were looking for today. You asked as wide the base to pass the Electoral Law, and that wider base was you, so you rejected it last time, then went on vacations and knew you'd get us into this position, instead of making those 20 days. On many occasions, I have told the media that I am ready to work 18 on Election Law and that it is ready for the SDS, we are not allowed. Now you've brought us here. You brought some embarrassing people I'll call when I'm out of these spaces.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4818	I beg you, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4819	But about that one. You work, sir. You have most of it. Vote as soon as possible for this farce to end.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4820	I'm asking you to adapt the terminology to this House of Representatives. There are no subjects in this home or any other weather signs, which means I'm asking you to respect the dignity of this high house. Who's next to the word? Is anyone else answering for word? I apologize to Ambassador Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4821	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished guests, I truly felt it was illusory that there was no need for me to speak here today, when this was the way the agenda was determined. But I must express my personal position and the club's position in this regard that we are truly sorry that dom has come into this position to bring such an important thing in this way. Namely, they have two reasons to define me not to support the election law this way. The first thing is to disrespect the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have a huge grudge against the international community and Mr. Petrić for not respecting both the decision and the deadlines he has made to agree on the constitution of the entity with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it had been done, we wouldn't have had problems like this today, and this way, through the knee of passing the Electoral Law. It's one thing and another thing that's going to make me choose not to vote for such an election law. It's actually that member of the 28th and not the adoption of our amendment that made it very clear that last time there was no passed law. And yet the thing that has been done, which is the last time, that the Alliance might have agreed to vote a little bit, but it's so devastating, it's so devastating for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been damaged and this is how genocide and ethnic cleansing are actually verified in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's the two reasons why I'm going to be determined to raise my hand against this law today. I believe that there must really be more arrangements and that the MPs of this House are not being put into a situation that we come here at 1 o'clock today for the session, at 11 o'clock to be told that I hear from the press that 19 will be here today, the Electoral Law. That sooner, the journalists know more than MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly that this law here will be proposed and that this is how the adoption of the law will be forced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4822	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. Is anyone else answering for word? Thank you. (a) The debate and adoption of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft electoral law in a single reading in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. It means who is to respect the Council of Ministers' request to consider the draft electoral law in a reading consistent with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Who's for please? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against this proposal? Thank you. Anybody got any abstentions? No abstentions. To an entity vote. Who is from the Republika Srpska area for this request from the Council of Ministers? Who's for please? Please. Who is from the Republika Srpska area for the Council of Ministers' request? - 6 Who is from the Federation for this request from the Council of Ministers? Thank you. I find that, under point 2(a) of point 2 for the Council of Ministers' request that the proposal for an electoral law be considered in one reading in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of 38 MPs voted 22 against 15, there were no abstentions. By entities, from Federation 18, from Republika Srpska 6.. I konstatuj that the Council of Ministers has adopted a request for the draft electoral law to be considered by an emergency procedure, meaning Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in one reading. We move to sub-point b) Discussion and declaration Proposal for an electoral law in accordance with Article 105. House of Representatives I am opening a debate under the bill of electoral law. Who's answering for a word? Is anyone answering for a word for discussion? Chairman Ljubić. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4823	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I would ask the Proposer to respond to me on the constitutionality of the provision, which makes something very precise and clearly defined in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina Article 4. 1.a. who says – nominated Croatian and Bosniak delegates from the Federation elect Croatian, or Bosniak delegates of the Federation's House. Representatives from Republika Srpska elect the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. You should be warned and do not try to change the Constitution's violent Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As a member of one of the constituent people in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I want my rights to protect the House of Peoples, because it gives me the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I don't know how it just tries to transfer to transitional and final provisions until the final arrangement is reached. I agree and propose that it be that the election of envoys or delegates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's similar, but it's not the same. I don't think the rest of me is disputed, that duck, I've supported a different definition of the article of voting for the refugees and the displaced. Each, I agree with both the text and the way members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency are elected and with the election or solutions to elect representatives to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Peoples because they are adjudicating the rules and regulations of 2000 that have caused instability. Think carefully about whether this is in accordance with the Constitution. I'd like to ask if the Constitutional Commission can give its opinion on whether this is good. I don't think it's well defined.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4824	I would like to thank President Ljubić. This is an inquiry to the Council of Ministers' proposal. Is anyone else picking up the word? Can the Council of Ministers answer this question? No more discussion. poslanik Grabovac. Here you go. I'm asking. What do we do?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4825	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, it is obvious that this Parliament is doing well when it comes to agreeing with the Alliance. But it doesn't matter if the constitution is being violated and whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is actually going to the Council of Europe with the law, which violates human rights, that is, the rights are at least questionable by one of the holders of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty, which is the Croatian people. I argue this by excluding the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Electoral Law in Article 11.1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 11.1 said that the way to elect representatives in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was regulated in Article 20.16, and Article 20.16 said - until the final regulation of the process of electing delegates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, their choice is made in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm getting a little caught up in this, too, until final regulation. Which means that this election law, proposed by the Council of Ministers, has put Malta not above the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, saying that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is temporary, 21 which is nowhere and which is inadmissible. If something is regulated by the Constitution, then the laws are required to comply with the Constitution. We didn't get an explanation, even though we had an explanation from the Council of Ministers in the College. Which is why it is. The HDZ Representatives Club is not satisfied with this explanation, because the House of Peoples as well as the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the House of Representatives, is clearly regulated by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and neither law can derivate the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, either to put itself above it, or to prejudge solutions that will be made by changing the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we have no objection to amending the Constitution, but to really get that necessary majority needed to change the Constitution. And what is very important is it says until the final regulation of the procedure and it has been placed on the House of Peoples to choose according to the Constitution in the transitional and final provisions. For me as a representative and as a Club of HDZ Representatives, and I believe that most of the Croatian people, since we represent as representatives of most Croatian people, this is inadmissible, and this is something that we believe is wrong and does not contribute to freedom and protect human rights and does not contribute to the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we think that this is indeed an attempt or violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, Annex VII, which will certainly open up opportunities and give the right for everyone to violate it in a way that we see that we will protect the interests of our constituents, or our constituents, or in this case, when it comes to it. Representatives of the HDZ Club believe that by excluding the House of Peoples and putting into transitional and final provisions the vital interest of the Croatian people is at stake as one of the holders of sovereignty and asking the OHR to intervene on this, because this is indeed a violation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the law puts the opposite of what was regulated by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially that it is important for the protection of the vital interests of the Croatian people, it is the House of Peoples. In addition, last time we talked about the law, we all told the Alliance parties that they wanted homes of the people in entities and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here it now turns out that they are completely in contradiction that it is not the part, but they want something else, or they want to deceive the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina by abolishing the House of Peoples or by putting it into transitional and final provisions, which is unconstitutional, because it is already regulated by the Constitution. We find it inadmissible and ask that before the vote takes place, the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which was also an obligation for the Constitutional and Legal Commission to consider this law before and to say whether it is in conformity with the Constitution or not. When it comes to Article 20.16. I don't even know what the articles are anymore, because I haven't even been able to read it, which is mostly about refugees. I don't mind, I'm 28. I'm sorry, 20.16 is this around the People's House, I don't mind, but I'm not going to complement colleagues who used to say what you're going to do with those people that friends have received and have no place to go back or don't want to go. Because Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement allowed these people to determine, to say by choice, to determine where they live, so they're temporarily alive and unable to vote in that place and they don't want to, because they may have experienced a tragedy somewhere, a whole family. So you took away their basic human rights, that is, after the tragedy they experienced in this war, you beat them even more, because you didn't allow them to vote without talking about what my colleague Banjac was saying before, about those who replaced them, sold the property, and why they didn't want to live there anymore, because they decided to do so, which is consistent with aneks vii.. 22 Therefore, before and starting to vote, I ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission to take a stand on whether this law is constitutional and whether it is in accordance with the Constitution which we believe is not, and if possible, I suggest that the Council of Ministers withdraw this law, which I have also said that it is possible for at least 24 hours to really examine this law and see where the problems are, or what it might be to disrupt when it comes to the vital interests of the people, given that they have excluded the House of Peoples, and the House of Peoples is the place where the vital interests of one of the holders of sovereignty are protected. Therefore, we believe that there are no reasons, since the Constitution regulates the exclusion of the House of Peoples from the basic provisions and the putting into transitional provisions, especially in Article 20.16, until final regulation. So does that mean that we are, that this Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is temporary until it is finally regulated. I mean, this is embarrassing that it even came out with a proposal like this. However, this should have been done and there was plenty of time to cut off summer holidays and try to put the law into practice under another procedure under Article 104 and allow for public debate. I therefore ask that the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission before the vote, or the possibility of the Council of Ministers withdrawing and supplementing this section as I have said and Article 28, have not protected those who have experienced a tragedy and have received them from friends or relatives, but do not wish to return in accordance with aneks vi, and cannot vote in the place where they now live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4826	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Replica. Two replicas. No, it's first. Replica good. Mr Bjelobrk Bjelobrc SDP MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4827	I may object to how much I am able to endure, the factor of patience, but a whole series of words like farce, shame, etc. I'm afraid it doesn't suit serious people. So I'm going to ask all of the following debaters, first of all, to get things back to the category of rational. My colleague Titan and I tried to talk last time about two possible world views. I listen to you with patience every time. I'm afraid I don't deserve that kind of attention from you, which I'm terribly sorry. Because first of all, I appreciate the people who chose you, no matter what I think of you. I'd be glad if you were already talking here from the public perspective that in the last change we're offered, there's only a problem with the procedure, not the structure declared by the Constitution. And another very short. It's very clear that I use the dictionary of the people I respect. Because you've had a very dark trip since your vacation, and I still haven't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4828	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Ambassador Banjac Mirko. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4829	Dear gentlemen, I will use my parliamentary right to say a few words, not for those who work past the Constitution, contrary to the Dayton Peace Agreement, contrary to the Rules of Procedure in this House, it is a practice. You gentlemen can bring it in and I can't argue, because it just doesn't matter who's making any arguments here anymore, it's important who raises his hand. What I'm trying to say is that what I'm saying today is that we're having a little bit of a little bit of a paper in Article 20. 15th wrote that this is what the gentlemen conveyed to all the media that this is the beginning of the revision of the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement. This is the start of the revision with the help of the voting machine, not with the help of the arguments. I'd like to, too, if we can do better, if we can. Who wouldn't want that? It's not a problem if something needs to be changed. Everything that life overcomes and everything that people agree on needs to change. But I think it's getting really more questionable. I think this will open the process of very fast sessions. Don't torture us here anymore. You're not interested in arguments. The Rules of Procedure have been destroyed here today. That document no longer exists here and doesn't need it at all. Mr Titan is requesting the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Why, sir? Well, nobody needs that either. It says right there that there is a constitutionally prescribed procedure. It says that the law must provide an explanation and a tax-listed list of what should be in the explanation, what should be answered, what questions. No one here has provided an explanation. No one even touched the law. This law was passed a few minutes before the vote, and the argument that I'm not speaking. Did the Constitutional and Legal Commission need to be determined according to reason? Well, of course it is. But who cares more about it here. Gentlemen, you've opened the process of derogating Dejton, by derogating entities, by derrogating everything that has led to an unfortunate war here. You gentlemen who have done so have done so with the help of a number of people who come from Republika Srpska. They will have to respond 65% of Republika Srpska's electoral body. Why they do that, and I'd like to hear their explanation. Of course, they did. I don't want to comment on their motives, but I'd like to hear them. Until I hear them, I can comment on them. It would be very interesting to hear that. As an MP, sir, whether you like what I say to Republika Srpska or not, but it exists, it will exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4830	poslanik Banjac, no, I'm not glad you say Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4831	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4832	I beg you, there is no conversation in this House of Representatives and the calling of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4833	Please, I didn't mention anyone's name. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4834	You don't have that right. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4835	I didn't mention anyone's name. Don't make a fuss, sir. I didn't mention anyone's name.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4836	I'm not making any noise. This is the House of Representatives, and in that context...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4837	But you talk a little harder, it echoes a lot. Please, I'd like to say that you gentlemen have denied one of the fundamental human rights, it's a choice of place of residence. You've denied people a choice. You have denied this in relation to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dayton Peace Agreement, Annex VII. I want to tell you gentlemen, you'll have to take responsibility, don't call the opposition parties for anything anymore. If this is how you passed the Rules of Procedure, past the Constitution, past the Dayton Peace Agreement. Bring the gentlemen all and answer. I'll be grateful if Bosnia and Herzegovina does this. Only gentlemen take other sanctions against yourself, because someone will have to impose it on you if it goes downhill. I wish he wouldn't go. As far as I'm concerned, you won't have a man in me looking back. But unfortunately, gentlemen, this is the day you turned your back on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4838	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4839	Mr. Chairman, here I am before, just a few words. I ask the Ministerial Council for a response which put the House of Peoples in transitional and final provisions and said to a provisional, as if it were a temporary solution, to a final solution, i.e. a lapus. To give me an answer to that part and then, in accordance with Article 62(1), I request a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4840	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Minister Mihajlović also asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4841	Some lies have been made here. Probably because the fact this new text of the law came just before the session, so people didn't have the opportunity to get to know these changes until the end even though the changes were very symbolic, so there's no need for much time to work this out, because you had all this. The truth is that 25 human rights have been denied to people who have replaced property, people who have decided to stay where they currently reside, who are with friends, relatives, tenants under tents, etc. etc. So that's their right and they'll vote and have the right to vote where they live. This is not disputed, and these amendments do not violate their right, i.e. these amendments of this law allow them to practically vote where they live, if they do not want to return, or if for any reason they do not want to return or vote in the place where they used to live. So the fact is that their rights are not disabled or usurped by this change. Once again, only this amendment to this law gives those who are in other people's property, who will be in other people's property on the day of the vote, is only given the right to vote in the place of residence of the last census, that is, in 1991. So they're not deprived of their right, they have the right to vote, only because they're in other people's property, property law, etc. It's said where I can vote. So they can vote, no one's right has been taken away, everyone has the right to vote, only those who are in other people's property, and for whom there are documents. Those who have broken property, too, are not threatened by their right, they vote where they are, where they have legal papers that have exchanged property there can also vote. Therefore, here we need to be clear and precise so that there is no confusion over the public, because of these people who, to whom everyone is called, are called etc. that, above all, it is clear to them, to avoid these speculations, not to abuse these people, because many times so far they have been abused and have been made false promises to them, and therefore these people are mostly great tragedists. Because of those false promises that have been brought into this situation all this time. Chapter – Home of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. sub-chapter. Here is why it is – the Constitution is not broken. So the House of Peoples is elected by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have deliberately, in order to avoid these traps that we expected to remain in the text of the law, we have called this, a sub-chapter, as the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been told here. So that's the sub-chapter left to keep someone from speculating, if someone wanted to abolish the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why we deliberately left this chapter in the law. Why has this sub-chapter been abandoned? That could be the real question. Why the development of this sub-chapter has been abandoned. Because it was left out earlier, you accepted the entire sub-chapter of the selection of the House of Peoples in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since this sub-chapter has been left out, and in the Constitution we are calling for this sub-chapter to elect the House of the People of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, how those 10 delegates 5+5 will be elected. For these technical reasons alone, the development of this sub-chapter of the Bosnia and Herzegovina House has been abandoned. Let me say it one more time for the public. No one usurped or had any intention of abolishing the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please. The home of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina is undeniable, with the constitution guaranteed and Article 20th point 15th. Exactly said to be chosen under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the work was left out until all the gaps in this electoral law were completed, which I hope will be re-emerged very quickly to this Parliament and then debated and we have one complete law without blanks, in which all of what you have said today will be included. And there's no need to worry about anyone wanting to, it's just impossible. This is possible only through 26 changes to the Constitution, and that changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina are known procedures that cannot be changed without 2/3, i.e. without you here no one can change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4842	I thank the Minister. Mihajlović, we have one more question for President Ljubić, and then we'll take a break. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4843	I'm just now surprised by Mr. Mihajlović's explanation. It is said not to be disputed by these five, the 10 of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina are disputed. And for him, it's a technical question. Gentlemen, for me it is not a technical question of the House of Peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is a question of my fundamental equality, equality of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who thinks it's a technical question, I think it's a big mistake. Only now do I see a clear background and a clear message. So in one part it's all clear, and the other part I still have to solve, and I'm going to ask my colleagues, my countrymen, and all the others who will be voted, who will be told whether they're ready to take all the conjectures from what's going to happen in one of these ways, if this issue is treated as a technical question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4844	I thank the chairman. We also have a replica of the Parliament of the Grabovac. And Ambassador Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4845	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like a minister on Article 28, because I mentioned when it comes to those who are with friends or family. So where he's talking, this one where he's been changed, I'm just going to do the last sentence -- and it can only be registered for elections in the municipality that had the last residence according to the last census of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You read it and you find the answer here where those who aren't in other people's property don't want to go back there, live somewhere else, and they voted there. He can't. You read the paragraph, you explain it. I don't want us to take that time. When it comes to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4846	Replica, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4847	Exactly, this is a replica of the answer given. It's not true that it's enabled. I don't know how he interprets it. When it comes to the House of Peoples, you have not answered me, which is why it is excluded from the House of Peoples from the basic provisions of the Electoral Law, which is regulated by the Constitution. And the obligation of every law is to comply with the Constitution. If the Constitution changes, then 27 is a obligation to change all laws, including this electoral law. And what's the problem, regardless of what's already been regulated by the Constitution? What is the problem with this standing in the basic provisions until the change of the Constitution? When the Constitution is changed, basic provisions will be changed. So you don't have enough arguments, unless there are dirty intentions to be at Federation level, when it comes to the Federation and Republika Srpska, to introduce constitutional committees that..... the two-home parliament and through which will try to elect the House of Peoples, or through these constitutional committees, or will try through parliamentary homes where fully, indeed, there will be a majorization of the Croatian people. And this is for HDZ and our club inadmissible, and I'm looking for an explanation, because this is for us a violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, because the Constitution is derivated. Because you should not have left out of the basic provisions of the law what exists to you in the Constitution, and you did it. Secondly, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have no justification for abandonment, since there is no decision of the Constitutional Court that has occurred for the level of the entity. Therefore, logic exists and the basis exists for the level of entities, but for the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not. So, you've done something that's against the constitution, and for us, this is a violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and we're asking the OHR to intervene on these cracks and, of course, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, otherwise we consider this parliament's illegal work if there is a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4848	I thank Ambassador Grabovac and MP Baković. Please. Replica. Then before that, MP Zaćiragić, I apologize to Ambassador Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4849	A fellow Titan, Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan tried to make transitional and final provisions a rule. Please, in the introductory provisions of Article 1.5, stand – all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have the right to vote and to vote personally in the municipality where they have their residence. It's a rule that stays. So whoever settles somewhere and has a place of residence and proves it, but in their property they will have the right to vote, there is no dilemma. In the transitional and final provisions, this exception shall be located, until Annex VII has been applied. I see a lot of debaters don't even mention Annex VII. I don't think it's definitive yet that we're not going to apply it. When applying Annex VII of this transitional and final provision falls and comes to order this introductory part where everyone has the right to vote on the place where he transferred, reported residence. So, there's no limit to the freedom of citizens, except for those who live in other people's property, which I think is absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4850	I thank Ambassador Zaćiragić. And also Ambassador Baković. Here you go. I'm begging you the replica on the replica is that. poslanik Grabovac has no reason to. We've exhausted enough of this plementation around here already. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4851	Dear Mr. Chairman, MPs, I'd just like to say a few words. In fact, I was a little irritated by the procedure around this agenda, because we got one agenda that was established, defined, and in a relative sense we were prepared to work on it, material some etc. What has been done today, a total change, seems to me that something has been done on a raid, so maybe you'd say it's a little bit of identity, an unserious job, and I don't think it's supposed to be the practice of this home. However, what MPs adopt should be appreciated, determined even though preparations for the discussion, etc. It's getting less transparent like this. But what's main is that a little bit about the Electoral Law. The election law, gentlemen, is being broken dearly, and I think it's one of the fateful issues of the inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it's also a matter of not knowing if it's a sharp term, some of the occult stuff. It's just some of the things that were carried out on a raid again. Namely, if it is destroyed, or if the construction of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is derivated, and I especially speak for the smallest people of the Croatian people, I think it will disrupt those most important and moral and legal and political things in our country and that it is not good. But it seems to me that it's systematically working on it and being made public and triumphing over the phenomenon of majorization. So this should not have been ignored by the definition and role of the House of Peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's strange to me, and I would like legal professional, measuring politicians, our officials, senior political officials to say why this was done and what is the tendency? What's the point of that? Why was the question of the fate of the House of Nations transferred to those final and transitional provisions? This means that this is, that it is a lean question, and it just needs a little more, a little bit more, and it has to collapse completely, that the House of Nations disappears, and then the constitutionality is not guaranteed. We'd have to talk about some things out of the open once. I'm not going to imply anything or by implying something or by some kind of occipital games and games. It's open. What does that mean? Is that what it's about to do and why it's done? And what does that mean? Because if the House of People is abolished, then it's just that the constitutionality is lifted and there's nothing to talk about. Then there's an open door for any deformities that can happen here. I don't think that's good. It's not even good for refugees. It's not defined. No matter which person he lives in. Whether he lives on someone else's, even on someone else's, if he can't return to his own, or if he won't return to his own in a temporary sense, and in an essential legal sense, he must be allowed to vote where his place is so that he doesn't go where he was in 91st year, etc. Because maybe he can't just take all the planes and helicopters to the place where he was 91st, he can't come, maybe all that was burned down, etc. I think there should be some kind of insight. I think all these questions are of such a nature that a bit of goodwill and a bit of perhaps good emotional and moral well-being can be solved and I'm surprised why it always puts itself as a problem and why it won't solve these things. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4852	I thank Ambassador Baković. And the replica more, Ambassador Grabovac. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4853	I don't know what it is or the lady can't understand or won't, she doesn't want to understand. I'll do it again when it comes to this part, and I'll set an example. I'm in somebody else's property. I need to get back. I left that other person's property. But I can't vote, only in a place I had on my 91st list when he was 90. So I can't vote in that place. You can't. Look what I'm saying. He's leaving the property. Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who use a house or an apartment that has no right to ownership or a tenancy, and an executive document has been issued by the competent or administrative authority on the return of that house or apartment, or the decision of the Commission on the property requirements of displaced persons and refugees does not have the right to vote in the place of residence, means in that place. So in the place where she had it temporarily, where she took up other people's property until she left and can register for elections only in the municipality that had her last residence according to the last census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So let's let her leave that place. She can't. She's gone to see someone. He doesn't have his own house, he doesn't have an apartment. He's been taken in by his friends. Look, I'm telling you it's again, when it comes to this, we're going to make a greater injustice than it is right now. That this should be well considered when it comes to this part, because people will not be able to vote under this law if it is adopted like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4854	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. 30 minutes off. ... The House of Representatives. We are at point b) of discussion and declaration of the draft electoral law according to Article 105. The 35-minute House of Representatives, which has already extended to 55 minutes, has been sought by the HDZ Club, Mr. MP Mirko Grabovac, I apologize to Miro Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4855	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I asked for half an hour in front of the Representatives' Club, but the problem was you were waiting for the Council of Ministers to chair, and you weren't us. As far as the HDZ Representatives' Club is concerned, we have considered this election law once more. Since it is also a questionable call to the session, since it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure on how to call it, and I have not received an answer by which this article is called, given that the Electoral Law is one of the very important documents, or the other, of importance after the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and unfortunately that it in its contents or tries or derogates the Constitution, if nothing else tries to do, since the House of Peoples, which is regulated by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is placed in transitional and final provisions, rather than in the basic provisions that create doubts about how and in what way the House of 30 Peoples will be regulated, or is trying to influence the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people in the whole area, and for us it is very important when it comes to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. Since I asked for an answer why this went into transitional and final provisions, and I did not get it, or I got it in a way that is not justified when it is said that this is because the Constitution of the entities is not in conformity, it does not mean that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be touched in this way, or that it should be omitted what has already been regulated by it, because the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been called into question by the Constitutional Court, which we do not consider that this House of People should not have been dropped at all. We also asked that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which does not have whether this law is constitutional or not and a series of shortcomings that existed in this matter, and given that before the meeting we only received half an hour and could not study it in quality, and that it is very important for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the guidelines for further action of this Parliament, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina both internally and within the European family. I don't think there was enough time and we couldn't study it. We also asked for a postponement, at least 24 hours to study this law and try to make our contribution, because we are not sure that something has not been changed but what we were talking about. With this, the HDZ Representatives' Club will be present at the session and will not vote at all, because it believes that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being violated in the way I spoke in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4856	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Is anyone else answering for word? Me, here's the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here's Dr. Lagumdžija. I'm asking you a little patience. You can see that some devices work and work. In the name of whom and for whom you seek a snail. I apologize, before that, to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, dr Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4857	I suppose you can hear it. Ladies and gentlemen, the light's coming, a bit of a smurf, it'll come sometime. First of all, I would like to thank the MPs, indeed on behalf of the Council of Ministers, for allowing us with your votes for this point under a) to include at all this important law and to be in accordance with Article 105 of the procedure. Without that vote, we wouldn't be able to do this. I just want to say a few words about a few questions that have been raised here and a few claims that I owe on behalf of the Council of Ministers to repeat them, although they have been said several times behind this speaker and I do not want to add anything to what my colleague Mihajlović said in his opening statement, as well as in answering questions. This speaker was told that this law was a revision of Dejton, that this election law was trying to derivate the Constitution. Even if this electoral law were to energise the Constitution. I want very clearly, loudly, from this pay phone in Parliament as the 31st chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell all those who speak so, regardless of what initiative and what reasons it is not true. This council of ministers has neither a mandate nor a wish nor a political will behind it to make any of it seem. This Council of Ministers will do nothing but what we have said in addressing our public in the constitution of this council of ministers while Professor Matić led the Council of Ministers as well as now, while temporarily, as everything in this world is temporarily run by me. So we are in no way questioning the House of Peoples. Not now, not in future, not in any period that I can see for my life. The home of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is something perfectly clear that an institution that needs to exist to protect the vital interests of each of the constituent people in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter how large their size is. Thank Bog we all know that the size of a nation isn't the number of preparedness of that people, and this isn't about mathematics, this is about content in essence. This council of ministers, this parliamentary majority is made up of political parties in which no one, absolutely no party, comes to mind that any way in small, or on a large door, abolishs equality, equality to protect itself through the House of People's institutions. We can do it in Article 20.16 or 20.15. ask the question why is it standing here until the final, until the provisional? Should I or shouldn't I? I am responsibly telling you that you should not ask for any of the members, the traps or any excuse to vote or not to vote, because this council of ministers has proposed exactly this kind of amendment and this kind of approach to the House of Peoples because we knew that in this country, in this time, not only in this time, sensitive any touching in any institution that means guarantee equality in the people. I can tell you, I am obliged to say that, as chairman of the Council of Ministers at that time, the truth of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the leader of the party having circumstances, I have received a letter from the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, which is clearly suggested, said, that, for the Council of Europe, their view that the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to be filled with voids. So we had to say some memo to someone who would tell us it could be a parole hole. However, it did not occur to us to do so precisely in order to warn any objection, any suggestion that at a small or any door trying to break or derrogate an institution like the House of Peoples. We are precisely for these reasons, and therefore I would like to clarify once again to all those who are precisely why we have left it with the title of the name, the chapter, and the article, which is saying that this law will be resolved in accordance with the Constitution. We could have made another maybe formulation. Transfer here or there. But let's not get too clear here. We know perfectly clearly. Whether there was something in the transitional or final provisions, in the opening or final, middle or half-medium, it's part of the law, so it's not different in the law. He's got the exact same legal force. This isn't about legal power. This is about political will. And the political will behind this council of ministers is, I repeat, the equality of the people in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the Constitution of guaranteed mechanisms. That is why it is also not true that those who have said that this law does not respect the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality. On the contrary, it is respected, it is also encouraged. And why it has not been implemented, this parliament is not the place 32 should be talked about, because it is a good appeal for those who are supposed to be implementing it not in this council of ministers, but it is in entity parliaments and I think it is a good appeal for them from this pay phone to do so. So I repeat once again, there is not a single provision that derogates or violates the Constitution, and what is most important is neither a hidden nor a hidden point or a point to which such a thing is done. To claim that this is unconstitutional, that it is unconstitutional exactly the place that says that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only one (mertinome)...we in the Council of Ministers consider it in no way can stand. I also want to say, since it is said here to mention changes to the Constitution. They don't mention each other anywhere. And I'm also obliged here to say that the House of the Peoples, from this pay phone, has heard that the House of the People has leaned. The House of Nations has not leaned, nor can the House of Nations lean verbally or figuratively or stylishly, neither contentally nor real. The home of the people in this house exists, and here we have the leader of the House of Peoples, and regardless of whether he sits or doesn't sit at this session, the House of Peoples will exist here with this electoral law, and we think that he's empowering and promoting himself, and I think he's even making it better than it was in the previous version. We have normally consulted OSCE representatives, we have consulted on all of this and OHR representatives, but I want to say from this pay phone, we have consulted them to the extent to which this is kept only by the dignity of our institutions and our institutions. We got atest that this is right, legally, that it's constitutional, that this is valid from the point of view of the Dayton Agreement and everything. We didn't go there to get a member or one, but we did it ourselves, and we came to this compromise, and I really expect and I invite you all to join us who managed to find some kind of common denominator. I am convinced that if all of us, all MPs and MPs and members of the Bureau and members of the Council of Ministers, had had the opportunity to make any kind of intervention on this, I am sure that each of us would have some kind of improvement, work and so on. This parliament will have the opportunity to work on it, as we are waiting for 35 sublegal, legal and other acts that follow from this, 35. 25 minimum forms to be created, not to mention that registration that needs to be done at lower levels. We'll all have a chance to talk about it. We don't go into the Council of Europe with this today, so that someone doesn't have these illusions. We don't go into the Council of Europe with this. With this, we still have a chance of this happening to us. We today, if we don't do this, we're definitely staying off the train that's going there. If we do today, we're on that train as a engineer. If we get there depends on the fulfillment of the breed of meep for the beginning, it depends on us all showing together the political will and maturity and stability to get out of the situation we're in, about whether something is in the transitional and final or this or those provisions. I invite you all together to join the parliamentary majority, to be one parliamentary majority in which we will accept getting on a train that gives us a chance, only gives us a chance to get to the Council of Europe in the time ahead. And I underline once again the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina is an institution that neither this parliamentary majority nor the party from which I come, nor I personally, nor any of us sitting here intend to derrogate in any way. I am obliged to say it, not because it says it here, but because we need to look ourselves in the eye and know that it is so, and another thing is 33 that every possible political outwitting, rhetorical finesses are quite natural in every parliament. But whoever's saying that this House of Nations is being derrogated, possibly abolished or something like that, I suggest one thing, if you're saying it, please don't believe it. I thank you all once again, if nothing for what you've done under point (a) has given us the support to try to get to that Council of Europe. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4858	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Ambassador Malkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4859	Dear gentlemen, since neither the president of the club, his deputy, is in session, we have agreed to request a break for 30 minutes on behalf of the SDA's Club of Representatives, to conduct any consultations on behalf of the new situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4860	I thank Ambassador Malkić. So we have a break as much as the SDA Parliament Club asked for. Meeting of the 3rd session of the House of Representatives, MP Begović. That's after the session. So we are at point 2.b) of the debate and the statement of the draft electoral law in accordance with Article 105. The House of Representatives. The SDA party club asked for a break. Here's Ambassador Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4861	Dear gentlemen, given the new situation, I would first of all like to clarify the reasons for the break and the course of today's session. We were against including this proposed emergency procedure proposal because we were not sufficiently familiar with the amendments, i.e. the provisions of the proposed law. We are for the law, a law that will protect human rights, and the proposed text is not an optimal solution. With this, we will have in mind when voting, i.e. in view of the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina above all, we will say our own way of voting when we vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4862	I thank Ambassador Malkić. Who's next to the word? Is there a discussion? I ask you, if no one is answering for a word anymore, thank you for this debate with all the controversy, a political debate that is simple and objective and expected in terms of 34 considering such an important legislative project that stands before the adoption by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives, with more than one member of 105, and in this context, it is certain that everything that has happened in the past hours at the House of Representatives. In that sense, point 2.b. I'm asking you... Here you go, Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4863	Dear gentlemen, on behalf of the Club, I would like to inform you that we will not take part in the vote, because it means we will not be abstentioned either for or against, but we will not participate in the vote, because the application of the Rules of Procedure has been disabled, the Constitution has been violated, and please, for the sake of the inaccuracy of the allegations, there is no debate here, this has not been a debate of the law, this has been a preparation for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4864	Everyone has the right to understand what has happened in the past hours in a unique way. I repeat again, yet this was a debate of contentual character and in this context I remain at my own time. That is why I am asking you to adopt the proposal for an election law which has come to us as a proposal from the Council of Ministers under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Who's for please? Thank you. Who's against the bill of electoral law? We don't have anyone. Who's restrained? One. An entity vote is necessary. Yeah, right. Not all MPs voted. That's an announcement. Who is it that's from the Federation's area of adoption of the draft electoral law? Thank you. Who is from Republika Srpska to adopt the draft electoral law? It is my special honor and pleasure to announce that of the 37 MPs present for the draft electoral law in the first round of voting voted 26, there was a abstention of one MP. 21 per entity in the Federation's field of electoral bill's proposal. Seven MPs voted in the Republika Srpska area, and I find that the proposal for an election law under article 105 was introduced into the procedure by the Council of Ministers at today's House of Representatives session. 35 Thank you and I congratulate you on the adoption of the Electoral Law. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 3. Information on the rotation of the chair of the House of Representatives as referred to in Article 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution and Articles 4 and 24. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives I am taking the opportunity to thank you all for your cooperation. This is the last session under the chairmanship of my personality and in that sense, regardless of all the controversy that has been in the past seven and a half months. With all the difficulties this home has faced I want to thank you and in this context express my thought that this parliament will continue to work with its full moral and political ingenuity under the chairmanship of Dr Željko Mirjanić. In that sense, just a few words. We have so far had a modest effect in terms of efficiency and simple adoption of legal projects. We've adopted 15 legal projects. Of which, 10 laws came as laws that were provisionally declared by OHR. In doing so, they also considered and agreed to ratify 22 agreements or contracts, not to read to you and also to consider 10 information and reports. In this sense, it is safe and remains in parliamentary procedure, there are 15 other laws that are introduced in parliamentary procedure on the first or second reading. So there's a lot of work left for the House of Representatives who didn't just take a special summer break or interrupt their functioning and operation. In the next few days, we will hand over Dr Željko Mirjanić and I and on 29 August, Dr Željko Mirjanić is the chairman of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you again and congratulations to Dr Željko Mirjanić for the presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ad. 4. MPs' questions and answers I beg you. MPs' questions and answers. The MPs received answers to parliamentary questions. Co-chairing the House of Representatives, Mariofil Ljubić, then MP Ibrahim Đedović, MP Miloš Jovanović, MP Osman Brka, MP Sead Šarganović and MP Boro Bjelobrk. Boro Bjelobrk also has a word again. I'm sorry, Boro Bjelobrk MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4865	I don't know which one of your lists gave me the answer. At least I didn't get a chance to see him. I'm glad you finally started working with me. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4866	I'm asking you a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4867	Dear colleagues, you will allow me to still recognize the boundaries of decency and address our three distinguished colleagues sitting in the presidency. This is my four interventions concerning information about Banja Luka and Trebinj. I didn't get an answer until today. First of all, I want to publicly announce that, while I do not have any information, I consider our presidency responsible, not knowing at all about the position of the Council of Ministers and the Government of Republika Srpska. But you haven't informed me of anything. That's what I'm asking publicly for you to give me an insight into all the correspondence on this issue tomorrow. Secondly, I call on the Law on Access to Information and the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted by this Parliament and the Law on Access to Information of the Republika Srpska Assembly, unless within 7 days or you, or the authorities of Republika Srpska provide me with that information, I will be forced to resort to measures of sanctions of material nature against all authorities and individuals in charge of this procedure. And this time I publicly tell you that I will no longer have any kind of dignified relationship when it comes to my internal relationship in the institution. I'll continue my fight after seven days in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4868	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4869	I'll do it for a while. Is there any means to address environmental problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina? If there is such a means as to deploy them and does it seem to help the egg solve the issue of air pollution? Electroboss works without a filter, before the war they were filters. It's a terrible pollution. I think it's the largest in the Federation, if not Bosnia and Herzegovina. They don't have the opportunity to solve for themselves. If there's any means, is there any way to help, to solve this ecological situation there? According to some indicators, the largest number of tuberculosis patients is in the egg area right now, not to say that all citizens have been escaped from the egg, have returned to severe conditions, have been polluted by smoke, and that there will certainly be major health problems. Here's the letter. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4870	I thank Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić. Ambassador Ibrahim Đedović came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4871	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, my question is to the College, believing that it is to consult all those who need to help us get an answer. I am interested in what are the vital, national interests of Croatia, which Bosniak and what Serb people? I want a written answer because I didn't want anyone's interest to threaten me here, and so far I haven't had a chance to read it. Thank you very much. I don't think there's any need for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4872	I thank Ambassador Đedović. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4873	Dear President, when we visited the Commission on Human Rights, Asylum and Refugees in the field of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when we were in Gradišca, we saw a problem there and here when we were reporting to Parliament we have not yet received an answer. Namely, what our government has done, the Council of Ministers means in solving the problems of the exiles or whatever you want to call from the Republic of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's a big problem, and that's not the answer. It is a matter of meaning to our Council of Ministers, and probably the Council of Ministers will forward it to the High Representative and to the international community to get the right answer. I think we need to get an answer here, and I'm asking one question. Second question. I know that there's a lot of things in the press and that you don't always have to take seriously what's in the press. But sometimes a man has to take it seriously. This morning, there were two very interesting information in the paper, very indicative of me, and I'm going to ask a question here because of that one. There's one piece of information that certain sports teams perform abroad under the flag of another state, and they're out of space here. What, in this respect, can our Council of Ministers, or this state, do such things not happen? They do, I think, only happen in the world in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a matter of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4874	I thank Ambassador Brki, MP Zdenko Vukić. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4875	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, my question is simple – How to ensure the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's representatives in sports and, at the very least, the chess team? I must say that it is very difficult for us to come up with organisational forms to satisfy everything in the matter of Bosnia and Herzegovina's representation. Where we do so, then we come up with an insurmountable obstacle to ensure a minimum of money that, for example, in this case, the chess representation, which is the holder of the Olympic Medal defends the colors of Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely that Bosnia and Herzegovina has its own representatives. When I talk about chess, we're talking about a sporting discipline that is most representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I have to say, when you're looking for money for it, it's very hard to solve that problem. If you're looking for money for any club, it's a lot easier to get that money. Last year, I personally as Prime Minister of the County, central Bosnia, one decision was made by the government at my address, and I have to say that today I can strike, I'm not going to say just the media, because the County, which is in serious material condition, has secured the money that the team goes to the Olympics. And this year, as things stand, they will wipe us out of membership, because indeed no one feels obliged to provide minimum money for the needs in this case of the chess team. I guess it's not much better in other teams either, but as I would say in clubs, much bigger money is spinning, so it's easy to secure that minimum that's very difficult to secure in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4876	I thank Ambassador Vukić and Ambassador Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4877	Ladies and gentlemen, this may be the third time I've asked the same question I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers to Mr Matić. I asked Mr. Lagumdžija during the election, but I do not see whether my question or discussion is written down, as MP Đedović mentioned, but only the mentions there, the name. And I'm asking the question again now, and now I'm really going to ask for an answer to say this ministerial advice, what did he do before, and what does he think he's doing to improve the living standards of working people and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? To say how much will the number of employees increase? How much will the average pension increase, by how many percent? How much will personal income increase? At least for those three questions. Or say it won't increase at all. Mr. Mladen Ivanić promised us in Republika Srpska that he would hire 40,000 workers in the coming period. And as far as I can tell, the number of workers has dropped. The fall is coming. Winter house. The school needs to go. It's a warm-up. Bosnia and Herzegovina will likely be affected by strikes and a wave of dissatisfaction between workers and citizens. I'm asking those questions again. And this is the last 39 times. I will also post it through the press, newspapers, write professional articles about telling us not only to tell us that here the choice in the Council of Ministers, or in some of these bodies serves to raise says the party rating. I won't say, since there's no Professor Lagumdžija. And he told me, I've accepted this increase I'm going to be rating me and the foreigners by one 20%. He won't grow up to let anyone know who's wrong if nothing is done for the citizens of our Bosnia and Herzegovina that we're here for. I think that's why we're in the first place, and we should leave politics at home. Politics was formerly in the Alliance of Communists, I was 30 in the KP, there was a policy in the afternoon, and the job is, we should work here in Bosnia and Herzegovina to create a self-sustainable economy. It's... in the middle of a conference self-sustainable economy, and in our branch, although there was some juice in it we've drained now breaking everything you understand, from the economy nowhere and nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4878	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. We've been waiting a long time for the answer to that question. poslanik Malkić. Let's hear more from Ambassador Malkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4879	I wanted to ask you, to us and to the Council of Ministers, or to the Resort Ministry. What will the Council of Ministers, or we, do to shed light on, or reveal, the perpetrators of terrorist attacks against returnees in Podrinje and other places? I am on behalf of the victims to receive a specification of 24 such attacks and I will add them to the Council of Ministers, through coordination with the resolution ministries, to see what they want to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4880	I thank Ambassador Malkić. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Salih Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4881	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I'm not going to ask any questions right now. And it would be good to think about these parliamentary issues being at the beginning of the session, because here and the world is breaking up, there's a lot of fatigue. However, I am taking this opportunity to translate the answer to Mr. Begović's parliamentary question into one proposal. Namely, there, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons has decidently responded to the MP Begović as well as how they provide funds for the return, and it is said which are approximately sources of funding. It occurred to me, and for a reason I am saying so, and I propose to the rest ministry that it is high time, and since it is there and said that, unfortunately this ministry has a co-ordinated role for now to make one guide, or one informer with its memo to present all the necessary information how and how to get back to its 40th home. I assure you, and I believe that you know people like that, there are refugees and displaced persons who unfortunately don't cope with the situation they are today, and she's familiar to us. Practically neither I nor any of us could manage in time or in space. Practically, they simply don't know who to turn to and where they're the headquarters of all these humanitarian organizations and what kind of humanitarian organization can at some point help in that direction. This concludes, please, and I suggest that the Ministry be as comprehensive as possible, since they have a co-ordinated role to make up one such, one such informer, or one such guide that would be distributed throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding this key problem. I thank Ambassador Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-21-0.u4882	I thank Ambassador Kulenović. Is anyone else answering for word? I thank you for your cooperation at today's session and we are finishing the 13th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The session was completed at 17.05 p.m.
