ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4883	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 14th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear gentlemen, since this is the first working session of this house under my chairmanship. Last session was a joint session of both homes, and I would like to thank the current chairman of the House of Representatives Dr. Sead Avdić is working together correctly and efforts to improve the work and efficiency of this home as much as possible. Dr. Crescent. I thank Sead Avdić for yours and for my own sake. Of course, the members of the College and the MPs in the House of Representatives remain co-operation and engagement in this responsible business, which is entrusted to us with the will of the voters. Before we move to the agenda, I suggest we settle one of our previous issues. Since the chairman of the Interim Election Commission, Ambassador Robert Bikroft has received notice that a member of the House of Representatives has been appointed Mr Franjo Majdandžić, the next qualified candidate from the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina's list. I call on Mr Majdandžić to make a solemn statement before the House in which he will fully assume his parliamentary duty. Also, the formal statement after the appointment was not given by Dr. Ante Domazet, Minister for Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions. I call on Minister Domazet to also join in giving a solemn statement. Here you go, gentlemen. Please repeat after me. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4884	I pledge to be conscious of my duties, I obvezivati to be conscious of my duties, 2
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4885	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4886	Respecting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respecting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4887	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4888	In full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4889	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, protect the interests of equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4890	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4891	I congratulate you on taking office, and I wish you successful work. Let's get down to business now. In addition to members of the House's meeting, members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, representatives of the European Union's Observer mission to Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of other international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, were invited. As a result of the agenda for which the materials were submitted to the House at this session, representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, the State Border Service and the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina were also invited. Representatives of public forming funds for media monitoring of the work of the House of Representatives have also been invited. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for your participation in the work of this house. 3 According to the service report, I find that 39 MPs attend the House's session. 27 MPs from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 12 MPs from Republika Srpska. The absence from the session was justified by MPs Branislav Lolić, Bahrija Osmanović. Mr. Bjelobrk Bjelovrk has justified himself, but he will come later, so he's late. The sitting therefore has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Gentlemen, for today's session, you've received a draft agenda. For the purpose of consulting on the call for the 14th session, we held another 4 September session of the Colleges in an extended composition. That's when we reached a consensus about this session, as well as with the draft agenda. However, circumstances have two times led to a delay in the session, as the circumstances we have informed you of so require that the session be held in the time when most MPs will be able to attend the session. You are also familiar with the reasons why this session was not held on 2 October, when we held the Plenary Session of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. As you have noticed, there have been changes in some common order of agenda points. Namely, MPs' questions and answers, so a point that has always been put at the end of the agenda now on the agenda as two points. The initiative to move political issues to the beginning of the session has been before, and we have taken the stand at the General College's session to determine future parliamentary issues as the second item of the agenda. It is my duty to inform you that the Extended College has taken a position that we are considering parliamentary questions and answers for up to 1 hour, so up to 60 minutes, which is commercially regulated by Article 126(3). Rules of Procedure. It is also a busy position that every MP has the right and obligation to present parliamentary questions and arguments with them within 5 minutes. I expect these rules will be respected in order to be rational and efficient. I also want to introduce you that in the meantime at the Extended College it is agreed to include another point in the agenda, which is to fill the seats in the House's commissions. Within this point, members and 2 permanent committees of the House and members of this House in the Interim Joint Commission should be selected to reach an agreement on the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act, instead of the late MP Nedžad Šašivarević. Also, we are at a session of the Extended College held just prior to the beginning of this session of the Council of Ministers we have received a request to remove the Free Zones Act from today's session and to participate in the next 15th session of the House of Representatives. The extended college has respected the request of the Council of Ministers. These were introductory notes along with the draft agenda. I don't think I should read the agenda. You received it, gentlemen of the Parliament, and therefore it would open a debate on the proposed agenda. Please, who's answering for the word? Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4892	Dear Presidency, I welcome you all, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, guests and the seventh power. I came out here because of a fact that happened recently and that is very important to me, and I believe for all of us sitting here, who have sworn to safeguard the Constitution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and since something so important has happened, where it is proposed by an individual who has taken an irresponsible role in the House of Peoples to end Bosnia and Herzegovina's Statehood Day and to declare that day an anti-fascism day. This was done by Mr. Sejfudin Tokić on his own without the agreement of Bosniak delegates in the House of Peoples, and I have come out here to suggest that this house discuss it and also explain and ask the Alijansa questions – are these the changes she announced in her election campaign? I want to say here very clearly and very openly, we have failed to forget Mr Božidar Matić's statement when he called the Army of Bosnia and Herzegovina a falange, we have not forgotten that in the opening statement of Mrs Hadžiahmetović, in the first sentence, there was a sentence – on the difficult internal conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is that continuity? And now it goes on to abolish the statehood of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In particular, it led me to the fact that this could be calculated if we know that SDP Secretary General Miro Lazović and the Vice-President of the General Committee Mr Sejfudin Tokić were in Belgrade 20 days ago. Whether they agreed to abolish Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood or not, I do not say so, but I have the right to doubt it. The Bosniak representatives in the House of Nations have already filed a written request for a vote of no confidence to Mr. Tokić, and I suggest that this House declares whether it is the Alliance's position, if we know. If the individual's position is to know what the Alliance's reaction is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4893	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Let's move on. The agenda of today's session. Mr. Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4894	I have no intention of, of course, giving a complete answer to Mr. Brk. I'd just say this is a House of Representatives, and it's not the House of Peoples, and the House of Commons will be discussed by the House of Representatives when it comes to the agenda. However, here are called two men, the Secretary-General of the Social Democratic Party and the Vice-President of the Social Democratic Party's General Committee, who, in a function of achieving co-operation with the Social Democrats of Europe and the Council as a full member of the Socialist International, were in the post, including in Belgrade at the Social Democratic Party. Therefore, our co-operation will continue in the future, and this is the state parliament and I have no objection to discussing and getting answers to the question. In the House of Peoples there, which is for the House of Peoples, and here in the House of Representatives, when the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national holidays is on the agenda, we will certainly come forward. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4895	Thank you very much. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Zdenko Vukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4896	I'm sorry. I'm under advocacy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4897	All right, all right. Is there, uh, anyone else answering for a word on the agenda? I'd like to try to look back on the proposal Mr. Brka made, I guess, in front of the SDA Club or something. Okay, you asked for it. The College managed to, we consulted while Mr Bogić had the presentation and the position of the College was next – you, if we understood correctly, asked the House to declare the request of Bosniak delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is our view that this house cannot be declared members of the House of Nations for the reason that we members of the House of Nations did not even choose. Then, next, members of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina were elected by the House of Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the issue can be raised there. So it's our opinion that we can't discuss it today, but it remains an open question, and that's when it's on the agenda of this holiday house. We have received a proposal, a holiday law adopted by the House of Peoples, and this law will enter into a regular parliamentary procedure in this House. When he is in a regular parliamentary procedure, then every MP will have the right to speak his mind and ask questions. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4898	This is such an important question for me and for the SDA party, for our club, that we can't go over this so easily. The procedure is a procedure, and the issue of vital interest for the state is a matter of vital interest. We believe that this home has both the right and the obligation to tell the public what it is behind, especially since we will not allow this issue to be relativeized as many things that are relatively related. Here, today we got, today we got a proposal here not to adopt the Refugees Act. Gentlemen, we're for that law. The law will not be passed because the Alliance cannot agree. I want you to know that. Let the people know. And gentlemen, the most responsible people from the Alliance are sitting here today in this House. Why don't they tell the people what it is? We're asking to be told what the Alliance's position is? I know what Tokić's position is, he said his position. I want to know the Alliance's position. You have no right to remain silent. The people must know the truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4899	Thank you, Mr. brkati. The word came from Vice-President Sead Avdić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4900	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues have not yet started a pre-election campaign and political parties' relationship on the political stage in Bosnia and Herzegovina is absolutely necessary through dialogue and simply correct political and fair struggles leading to a political scene. Which means the People's House has the legitimate right to think what it wants and it's legitimately the right of the Bosniak Club to launch responsibility. It is legitimate for the Brk MPs to simply discuss this way, but this is the House of Representatives and, in this context, when the Law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the House of Peoples, this House will simply declare itself, and the political party of the SDP will simply, through its press releases and all other means, give you a simple political communication on what is called the Law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Good luck and cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4901	Mr. Banjac. Are you answering your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4902	Dear gentlemen, the agenda and the agenda of the Bosnia and Herzegovina holiday law are being discussed. To say the same thing, I'm not happy with how this problem is done, nor am I satisfied with why it's done the way it's done. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives states that the law is first adopted in the House of Representatives. Stand, stand, read it well, if I can't do it for you, there's no problem. But I think the gentlemen are making a mess of this on purpose. On purpose, that no longer knows where the initiatives begin or where they end. It is perfectly natural and logical that the House of Nations as a protector of national interests, and above all, its task plays that role in the end. It's perfectly natural. But he's moving first and there's no telling what's going on. That's why this issue has to be resolved through the work of two colleges. Can't you gentlemen sit down and settle this issue? That's not clear to me. You're close, you're famous, you're close to the cabinet, and you can't get together and get rid of this mess. What do we need that for? I'm not saying "Brk," I'm saying "muffled."
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4903	Thank you very much. Mr. Borić Adem, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4904	Dear MPs, therefore, the Party of Democratic Action MPs' club was startled by the act of derogating the day of BiH's statehood. It also led him to act as a special item of the agenda, not prejudged by the law, this important issue for the public. So our proposal is to include this item of the agenda to be problemed, not to be given a final solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4905	Mr. Borić, you're just saying that your proposal would vote, since we have to put it in place, if you stay on the proposal as a club, we have to put it to the vote, but I ask you to formulate the proposal correctly. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4906	I think Mr. Parliamentarian Brka has been formulating a proposal for this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4907	He talked about the law, and the law isn't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4908	So, the question is to, like this -- the Party of Democratic Action MPs' club puts the celebration of BiH's statehood day as a part of the agenda. Marking Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood day.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4909	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? There isn't. According to the Rules of Procedure, we must make a statement on the proposal relating to the revision of the agenda. We have a proposal from the SDA Club to mark Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood day. I ask members of the House of Representatives to plead. Who is to put the mark of Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood day on the agenda for the SDA's proposal today's session. Who's in? Please, did the service count? Please, who's against it? Please, who's being held back? Thank you very much. Please give me the information. For – 8 of the 38 present, so 38 voted for 8 against – 9 abstention – 18 I konstatuj the proposal not accepted. There's no need for an entity vote. Gentlemen, I understand that for the 14th session of the House of Representatives, the following agenda is adopted. The adoption of the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. 4. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport, 5. Proposal for a law on industrial ownership in BiH (first reading), 6. Imposed Law on Foreign Trade (Second Reading), 8 / 8 Report on annual accounts for 2000 for (a) Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, (b) Ministry of Foreign Affairs, (c) Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, (8) Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Border Service in the period from 1 January to 30 June 2001, 9. Central Bank of BiH's 2000 report, 10. Information on the organisation and staff situation in the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign ministry, 11. Filling the vacant seats in the House and 12 commissions. Giving consent to ratification a)The Second Amendment to the Grant Agreement for the US-BiH Programme for the Reintegration and Stabilisation Programme, b)The Seventh Amendment to the Agreement on Grants between BiH and the United States on a programme for the financing of reconstruction under the titled 'The Business Development Programme'. Gentlemen, we're moving on to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. You've received a record from the 13th session. Please, is there any objections to the record? There's no voting on the agenda. If there are no objections to the record, I would put a vote on the agenda for the minutes. Who's in favor of accepting the minutes of the 13th session? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? - Niko. I'm sorry, Mr. Brk. I didn't notice. I'm asking the service to deliver the report. Thirty-eight present. For – 37 suzdržan – 1 MP I konstatovati that the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Representatives have been accepted. Gentlemen, we're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers From last session to this day, the following MPs received answers; Senad Šarganović, Željko Bilbija, Damir Mašić and Ibrahim Đedović. Can I help you with a word? We have until 60 minutes for this agenda point. Here you go. Ambassador Begović. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4910	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, on May 17th of this year, I have raised five parliamentary questions, and I have received one answer. I got a really exhausted answer to my great pleasure. I thank the Council of Ministers, thank the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees and thank the Administrative Service for this exhaustive response and conscious work. These 5 questions referred to the following questions: The addition of Annex VII to which I had already received the answer and I said; the second question of changing the name of cities and settlements; the third question of curricula and programmes in primary and secondary education; the fourth question of protecting historical monuments and preventing the rise of monuments that had no historical value; and the fifth question referred to regulation of the legal status of pensioners' homes as social property. The second question I didn't get an answer for being surprised really from May 17th to the day I was supposed to get it. It really refers to a change in the name of cities and settlements. I asked that question -- do entities, do cantons have the right to change the historical names of cities and displaced places? If they have any regulations that are regulated, or if that jurisdiction belongs to the state? Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to that question. Second, the application of curricula and programmes in primary and secondary education. Therefore, the appropriate Ministry of Education, Science and Culture was obliged to respond to this, and I was managed by the problems in Odzak that occurred. You know what it's all about. It refers to the application of the curriculum and programmes in this area exclusively to which the Republic of Croatia does not really have a Republic of Croatia to break through its programmes, curricula and programmes, unless an agreement between the two countries has been reached. I have not received an answer to this question, and I do regret it, or I regret why I did not get the answer, because you will pardon the unnecessarily creating a gap of impatience, misunderstanding, and even if you want political harmfulities to occur. The fourth question - the protection of historical monuments. You know, and it happens on its own in our fields, the monuments are being defiled, no one is taking appropriate measures to protect and others that are happening to us to raise criminals monuments, despite all of them watching, victims. Indeed, it creates a gap of misunderstanding again, and we are fighting for co-existence and we are fighting for the state to be quite reasonable to the extent of man and to the extent of all common nations. The fifth question - it was the duty of someone to answer my question when we will and who is in charge of resolving the legal status of pensioners' homes so that they do not continue to turn away from these homes and that they know in the end who will take care of it. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4911	Thank you, Mr. Begović. If I understand correctly, you have repeated your questions and are asking to receive a written answer to them. Thank you very much. Who's answering for a word? I'd like to ask you a reply to the MP's questions. No. There are parliamentary questions here and by nature things shouldn't be replicas, but you can correct the quote if it's wrong. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4912	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Honorable chairman of a comment by Mr. Begović, I would like to say that there is no in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the areas where the Croatian people live in the schools of the Croatian programme. At least there is no programme of the Republic of Croatia. So they're insinuations. This information and such comments are incorrect and are not justified. Under the Federation's law, or county laws in areas where the majority of Croatian people can bring in original programmes, they must not be prescribed by the central authorities, but by county programs and, of course, according to culture, the mentality of the living people's psyches are adopted by appropriate programmes. Therefore, these are not programmes prescribed by the Republic of Croatia, but programmes are composed to meet the demands and needs of the Croatian people living in those areas. So it's no delinquency, it's no incrimination, and it's a perfectly legal and moral thing, and I don't think it's a place to ask it as a parliamentary question and treat it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4913	Thank you very much. Just to remind the MPs, only please ask questions and ask oral or written answers. If you are asking for an oral response from the present members of the Council of Ministers, then there can only be one question and you must emphasize whether you are looking for an oral response. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bogović. Is that a replica or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4914	The answer to the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4915	The answer to the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4916	I'd like to report to my colleagues that I'm not at all guided by insinuations, you'll forgive my colleague, there was a public press conference, and the workers were publicly pleading on such a program. I have asked a fully responsible parliamentary question in accordance with my oath here as an MP and satisfying the interests of the voters who chose me. I didn't insinuate the matter, or ask the question, the fiction of anything, but I asked 11 questions to examine the case and see what was what. About that, I just wanted to answer that. I have no tendency to insinuate anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4917	Thank you very much. Mr. Đedović Ibrahim answered the words. Here's the wrong quote. Mr. Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4918	I wouldn't want, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs to open the debate and controversy on these issues now. However, I would suggest a colleague who is older than me and more experienced than I respect, and I am reporting as the president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this house to give our problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, even if that is the case with our internal instruments and resources. You did mention the Republic of Croatia as a state, whether in the context of someone who imposes curricula and programs or textbooks etc. And that's the wrong quote. If we need to open an interstate discussion on these issues, that is another question, then please contact the Foreign Ministry, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If this is a question that you disagree with, then leave it as an internal issue and do not enter into a discussion concerning the relationship between the two countries instead of a debate which is the domain of this canton, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4919	Thank you. Wrong quote, Mrs Violeta Kamberović. Excuse me, fellow Members, I'd like to ask the MPs and others present to turn off the tone on their cell phones, as it interferes with the session's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4920	I would just like to say to Mr Baković that in Posavski Canton it is exclusively on the plan and programme of the Republic of Croatia and, if necessary, I will bring proof of this, and my daughter is learning according to the educational plan and programme of the Republic of Croatia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4921	Thank you very much. Wrong quote. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4922	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I think we've been devoid of parliamentary issues here. I would then, if questions were asked like this and answers were sent like this, suggest that we, under the authority of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, say that this is the issue of education. So when the issue of education is the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I say, I would agree, if that's the way it goes, then we open the issue. I now have before me the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to quote you the 12 powers of the canton. In exclusive jurisdiction, the creation of an educational policy including the adoption of rules on education and the provision of education. Please, nice. I return to Article 6 says - official languages in the Federation are Bosnian and Croatian. I believe that after these constitutional changes, the Serbian language will be official in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then we will. Don't open the canton issue here, the cantonal structures of government. I don't know, I'd like to see a document of the Posavina canton or county where it says it's in use to use the Croatian curriculum and programme of the Republic of Croatia. But I think it should be used in the canton or county of Posavina and Hercegbosan and Sarajevo and the Croatian plan and the programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think the Croatian plan and programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Hrvat are a constitutive people towards other peoples as well. You've been following the controversy these days that one distinguished representative says he doesn't get materials in his own language. And that's what made some people smile. My lords don't need to make that smile. I think it should be a very common rule, the usual constitutional rule and the right of every man to use his own language, and that he can also study the curriculum and the programme as he wants it to be, which means complete and stop Bosnia and Herzegovina, by the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I'm saying, let's open the question of whether that jurisdiction should be given to someone else while she's in charge of the canton. Please make it nice for the cantonal deputies to talk in that direction. I could ask a hundred questions that are in the jurisdiction of the canton. Where is my basic right or to take it one way or another, but I'm not going on purpose, so I'm saying I went out to quote the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution so that we don't stay in public if we just decide here. I'm not taking the burden of a representative of the Cantonal Assembly or the Federal. Let them sort that out, but here I think they had enough material from this issue of respected representative Begović. I'm allowed to ask everything here, but let's refer it to the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4923	Thank you very much. I'd have asked for this debate to be over. Of course, no one, anyone who asks for a word, will get it if on the basis of the false assumption, but the request that we finish this debate, because here we have spent 15 minutes on the time we have taken for parliamentary questions and answers, and the members of the Council of Ministers, as far as I can see, are anxiously expecting parliamentary questions. Mr. Đedović Ibrahim answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4924	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished ladies and gentlemen. At first, I would say that I am not satisfied with the answer I have received, even though I thank you for your efforts. I would remind my question was – what are the vital, national interests of every nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina here and today. Instead, I got a theory. What are national interests throughout history? It's from the lexicon. I pray, since we have mechanisms and we have institutions that protect vital national interests. We have individuals who are constantly calling for protection or threat to give us an answer to what it is. I thank you and have one parliamentary question, on behalf of a group of MPs. 13 On behalf of the group of MPs, Šarganović, Mašović, Lolić, Stanivimorvić and I seek written information with as concrete a response to the next question. Does anyone on behalf of BiH discuss or negotiate BiH's accession to the Partnership for Peace? Is there a certain dynamic of bringing BiH closer to the organisation? Explanation. A few days ago, organised by the US Embassy in BiH, a group of MPs visited NATO headquarters in Brussels. We remind you that BiH has applied for the Partnership for Peace in 1996, and that the only country on the California-Vladigoskok line, which is not a member, is SRJ. We stress that all BiH's activities in this direction have been led outside this parliament and that so far, without visible shifts in achieving that goal, and if all relevant political parties in BiH advocate it. We are looking for information as quickly as possible, in order to create preconditions for the intensive involvement of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the process and to make a full contribution to the initiation of talks and activities of all relevant institutions at the level of BiH and entities leading to the rapid approach of BiH's Partnership for Peace.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4925	Thank you very much. One warning, MPs' questions are being submitted in writing. I'm asking you to do it. Thank you very much. Mr. Cuplov answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4926	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, dear guests, members of the Council of Ministers. I'm going to update my question, which I didn't get an answer to. It refers to Annex VIII of the Dayton Agreement, which clearly provides for the obligation of the party signatories, so to speak, to set up a commission to preserve national monuments. The importance of this commission is apostrophe, in line with the text offered there, because the Director-General of UNESCO is authorised to delegate two members to that commission. One of them is also the chairman of the commission. Also, I want to say here, that in the means of public communication, we were able to read that in the past year or this year, I am no longer sure, and it is irrelevant, so at one significant time interval of one year BiH has not applied for any monument to be included in the international classification of monuments, which are protected by UNESCO, for a very prosaic reason, because for this procedure it takes 350,000 marks in the procedure, at least it was in the means of public disclosure. Also, I warn the chairman, that the Rules of Procedure, the current Rules of Procedure, is not intended to discuss parliamentary matters, please also the MP has the right to ask a question. It shall not be set up by the other MP and the observations on the subject shall only be possible if that is the agenda point, or if the reply appears in writing as a part of the agenda. So, we're wasting our time, and I'm asking you to intervene in that sense and stop the debate on parliamentary issues. So 14 as an MP, I have the right to ask whatever question I want, and I am not asking for an answer from other MPs. This is a very specific institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4927	Thank you, Mr. Cuplov, for your warning. The college has consulted. We must respect every MP's right, if it is a false assumption and only in that case we allow. This is not a debate, but we are joining your request to commit ourselves to the agenda, which is parliamentary issues and it is true that the issues are referred before the Council of Ministers. Dr. Mediha Filipović answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4928	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, at the July session, I asked why no extradition law was passed. When I was motivated to ask this question, the talks I had as a member of this House's visiting delegation at the Council of Europe. Do I repeat to our repeated issues to various countries, which are members of the Council of Europe, in order to be able to ease the visa regime a little bit, we have always received the answer that it will not be until we adopt a single mother number and extradition law. That was an explanation for asking my question in July. After 9/11, I don't think I should explain now what this law is so urgent and important and I would pray, if I could get an answer from Mr Lagumdzija Foreign Minister, now verbally to this question. The extradition law or someone else who thinks they can give an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4929	Here you go, Mr. Chairman, you can give your word and you can. I suggest, if colleague Filipović agrees, we can adopt that principle, so you can answer it later. The answer will be given by Mr. Minister Svetozar Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4930	It has been working on this issue for a long time and together with OHR and our expert group, an extradition instruction has been made, which will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, in two days.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4931	Thank you very much. Kolegice Filipović, are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4932	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4933	The word has Mr. Osman Brka. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4934	Jutrosam just got this memo this morning and I'm taking this opportunity because today it's Parliament's day to ask the Council of Ministers the next question. Namely, I received a letter from the Bošnjak from the region of Karlovac County, who live in a large battle along the BiH border, ie Sunj, Centigrad, Vojnic and Popovska. According to our unofficial data, about 5,000 Bošnjak live in these areas, which is not, of course, the final figure. The highest problem arises in early '91. When Musliman leave their shelters because of Serbian aggression and the vast majority defend both Croatia and BiH and join the BiH Army and remain there until the end of the war. After “Storms” many return and then, of course, there are huge problems with obtaining their own documents from the Republic of Croatia, which, unfortunately, up to this day in 45% of cases have not been solved, because today they are asking Musliman, i.e. Bošnjak give up Bosnian citizenship costing at least 2,000 DM, which these people do not have, since '91. not an employee. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that our people are very discriminated against in terms of human rights, for example, our people did not exercise the right to rebuild and if their houses are burned down, then health protection, employment and everything else, so that I don't read everything, to cut back a little bit. What I want to ask you this way is, to really pass on our problems and try to solve themselves at the state level, unfortunately I have to realize that our efforts, to try to solve our problems, through the Embassy in Zagreb, have failed. I have a feeling that a little everyone forgets that we Bošnjak, who live by the border, have to have your support, because we don't know who else to turn to anymore. This is the question, therefore, of the Council of Ministers, chairman of the Council of Ministers of State, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, to resolve the issue of these people there for the benefit of both countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4935	I'm just asking you to plead, are you looking for an oral or written answer? If the chairman of the Council of Ministers please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4937	The appreciation of colleagues and the chairman of the House of Representatives, I would ask that these questions that are being raised at each session, to try this out, this is a new thing for us, because we are still stalking and we have agreed that this is going to the beginning, and sometimes it was at the end, but I would ask you, if it is possible for these questions, when they are asked, to use the Rules of Procedure in the way that he specified it. Namely, under Article 124 to Article 129, information activities have been defined. I understand the impatience of Mr. Brk who got this information this morning. It's perfectly 16 natural, possibly the importance of some questions, there are questions that come to mind or which, right now, when we go here, something important happens. This is the country where things happen fast. But the Rules of Procedure of Rule 126 has been defined to provide questions to the form entered, at least seven days to give the Council of Ministers to answer these questions, then to the Parliamentary Assembly, possibly to explain three minutes, that we would give you three minutes more answers. If you are not satisfied with the Psolovnik, you can be dissatisfied for two minutes and then we need two minutes more to answer you and after that, the matter is finished, as far as information and questions are concerned. Also, I remind you that Article 124 is very clearly defined in the first paragraph, only one paragraph has two sentences. The second sentence is: Questions refer to specific facts and situations in... information from their jurisdiction. Here's their jurisdiction, the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction. I remind you that most of the questions that have been asked us were not from our jurisdiction. I repeat, most of the question was not from our jurisdiction. We, I take the opportunity, here is MP Šarganović, we had his question, which was related to, part of our jurisdiction and part of his question was, from the jurisdiction of the entity of some institutions and we then established communication, through the competent ministry with the relevant entity institutions and then we completed the issue, acting in accordance with Article 129. The Rules of Procedure, which says that you, as MPs, can be asked about specific facts both in the situation and in other entities that provide answers in writing. Since it has not been resolved as you ask them, we have taken the obligation to be the interface between this Parliament and these other institutions. We do it to the extent that we get information from them, how well-intentioned they are. The example works, since the question asked by Mr Đedović, I can immediately answer you if you want, that the activities related to the Partnership for Peace, if your question, who runs these activities. These activities are run by the Presidency, its authority is and the Presidency runs a wide range of activities regarding our accession to the Partnership for Peace, and we can now, on the basis of your question, accept this and forward it to the Presidency and the Presidency will give you an answer to these questions. That answer to your question can only be the size of standard list A-4, as stated in Article 128.Station 1. That means that probably answers to these questions can't be too intense. These questions, which are listed very often here, I repeat once again, curricula, retirement homes, etc. It's mostly not in our jurisdiction, we can just forward it to others, which we keep doing and we're going to be blushing and in the future, but I'd like to ask one more time to get a little bit into this sphere, try to treat the Rules of Procedure, because then we'll make it easier for you and us both this whole business. As for the questions that Mr. brkati has raised today, we remain under obligation, again, in accordance with our jurisdiction to answer you on paper that will be A-4 size, maximum, as well as everyone else, but I would ask you once again to do this to us according to the Rules of Procedure and to draw your attention once again to address us, if you can, which you do not have to do according to the Psolovnik, but in our, in your questions, 17 you should also try to focus on who you want certain things, because they are often not of our jurisdiction. Mr. Đedović. Mr. Brk, if I understand correctly, you're asking me by Article 124. I would ask you to deliver it in writing in seven days, since I didn't get what you're actually asking me because you have to agree that your question was quite inaccurate. When you take it and when you see it in a stenogram, you'll see it's inaccurate. You try to answer it, and you'll see that you have a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4938	Thank you very much. Clearly, according to Psolovnik, there are deadlines in which questions can be asked to the Council of Ministers. Today's way of working fits our practice so far. We've done what we've done in this congregation so far, just like we do today. If you want us to apply something, to coordinate more with the Rules of Procedure, then it is clear that future for the next session, which is scheduled for 24. So we know when the session is scheduled. The extended college sets out both the agenda and the date of the meeting, then MPs should clearly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give instructions. However, the fact is, we had the practice of asking questions directly. The fact is that in other parliaments in other countries there is a direct dialogue between the minister and the MPs. We can agree, if the Council of Ministers is able or a member of the Council of Ministers to respond immediately, to do so today, if not, then, of course, you have the right to appeal to the Rules of Procedure. There's a perfectly clear thing to do and to take the time you need to answer. So that's where I totally agree. Mr. Vukić Zdenko picked up the phone. I ask you MPs to submit a written parliamentary question, because we can't forward it then, I don't mean you, Mr. brkati, I mean all MPs, because then we put our service before major problems and the Council of Ministers faces great problems. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Vukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4939	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I will only repeat one question, which, most likely, is seemingly unequivocal, but in itself carries a whole series of problems. So how do you resolve the financing of BiH representatives in sports competitions? The specific problem is, the performance of the BiH chess team at the European Championship in Spain. So, then we can open up the problem of BiH's name, I'm talking like a man who's headed... that part of the chess alliance in BiH, which has been since the beginning of '99. Designed in a way that satisfies the interests of all chess players in BiH. The fact is, there is no law, the fact is that no one, may be relevant to this problem, but I feel a commitment here, because I believe, if BiH is defending itself, that it is not appropriate to go begging, to look at inappropriate addresses of money that would ensure performance. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4940	Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4941	This, gentlemen, turns a little bit, turns out that this is a point of instruction and an explanation for asking questions, so I'd like to get back to the agenda point. I would like to ask the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and Human Rights, in which way and when private property will be returned to the owners of Srbin in the Sanhedrin Most, of course, when the aggression at the Sanh Most was committed, because on their land 176 houses of private ones were made, to answer me, so that I could give an answer to people whose names I have and I am willing to offer the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons a precise list of names on whose properties it was made. Here's a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4942	Thank you, Mr. Banjac, I would like to ask the other MPs, to speak so specifically and concisely, to immediately issue a parliamentary question. Mr. Bjelobrk Belabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4943	In accordance with my rights under Article 124, also Article 129 o.g. I asked for information on the events in Banja Luka and Trebinj. It has been five months since then and has already gone into conflict with Article 128(3). I'm hoping that my colleague Banjac will be correctly interpreted. Thank you very much. In that sense, pursuant to article 25, I'm asking you for an oral response. What have you done about this request and what are you going to do about it? That I finally get my answer. You are bound by the points h. and j. of Article 25. I've asked this same question twice, and I didn't get an answer until today.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4944	Mr. Bjelobrk, you want to be careful, so you can hear my answer. Thank you very much. I have now been informed by the secretary of the home of Mrs. Todorović that for the second time your question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers and we are waiting for an answer. Are you satisfied with the answer? Here you go. You got the information.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4945	I'm absolutely dissatisfied with the answer, I'm calling, I've already told a member that limits your obligations to 15 days, plus 10 days. If you want, I'll come back to quote you and your commitment while you were a member of the College, so I must admit you let me down when you said you were informed about what it was.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4946	Thank you, Mr. Bjelobrk. Then the chairman was Mr. Avdić, and that's where you made the weather check, but I'd like to finish the polemics. You got the information. The College is asking the Council of Ministers to address your question. Of course, the Council of Ministers will see if it's in his jurisdiction and you'll get an answer. Thank you very much, Mr. Bjelobrk. Mr. Malkić Abdurahman. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4947	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, at one of the previous sessions, we asked for a item on the agenda, from the occasion of the next name. Infringement of the High Representative's Decision on land availability in social, i.e. state property. We took it off... put it on the agenda, and we ordered the Council of Ministers to prepare information on the fifth issue. As far as it came with the information on the violation of the High Representative's Decision and will the information see the light of day and will it come to the agenda of this house? The second question, I received from the Efendija Hodžić of Trebinj, namely, he cannot get a ID card in Trebinj, so I would ask the Council of Ministers to see through the coordination line how a gentleman can get a ID card in Trebinj and there will be no more violations of basic human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4948	The answer to your first question was defined this morning in the session of the Extended College, where your club chief reiterated that question and an agreement was reached with the Council of Ministers on the matter, and your second question remains. Mr. Jovanović Miloš, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4949	Dear Presidency, if I had received an answer to the parliamentary question that I was asking, it seems to me that I wrote twice, because we on the tables, however, reject these forms of my own suggestion to cut short, to go faster and leave behind parliamentary questions and not go out for a pay phone, to come out directly, but it seems to be much more appreciated, when it comes out here when it's said, than when it comes out this way directly. My parliamentary question concerns whether the agreements on the exchange of real estate, concluded from the beginning of the war to the signing of the Dayton Agreement, between the Contracting Parties, which did not reside in the place of ownership of their property, i.e. escaped from the Federation of BiH's territory in RS and vice versa, produce legal facts, or remain in force?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4950	Thank you very much. Your remarks are in place as far as business is concerned. It coincides with Mr Lagumdžija's remarks, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and we will make Parliament's work more effective for the next session, as you will provide the previous questions in writing. Mr. Spasojević Zoran.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4951	Mr. Chairman and dear colleagues, I've come out to ask a parliamentary question. Can the BiH Council of Ministers help financially with the Bijeljina sewerage project? 20
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4952	Thank you very much. Mr. Željko Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4953	Dear gentlemen, here is a brief question for the Council of Ministers, which, most likely, will be given by the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and the question is: Did the citizens of BiH, who escaped from Slovenia in 1991, first have the right to return to Slovenia. For example. A tenant in the apartment who owns a military-inhabited former JNA fund?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4954	Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4955	Mr. Chairman, deputies, fellow Members of Parliament, ministers, guests, here I would appreciate what MP Jovanović was saying and I would hand over a clear, clean letter to the Cyrillic of my parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4956	Thank Mr Gligorić for his very positive example. Since he respected the Rules of Procedure and we have another registered MP, it is Mr. Kulenović Salih.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4957	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Before asking this question of mine, first of all, I would like to thank the College who, adopted this proposal, regarding parliamentary issues, to be transferred to the beginning of the session, because, indeed, it was not very good, given that we were quite tired at the end. Today I will stick to the Rules of Procedure and what Mr. Lagumdžija just said. I will strictly ask the question and it refers to the return, therefore, to the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons. When will the RES inform us in detail, how and how is the return process being implemented? How property requirements are implemented, as well as OHR decisions on this. Here's the dream I wrote. I'm counting on you to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4958	Are there any other MPs who answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4959	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no new questions. My question, when am I going to get an answer to the question you've already asked twice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4960	Mr. Franjo Majdandžić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4961	Your Honor, the Presidency, the honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a life-long question to prepare for the next session. That's what's most important to us, what people say, what they live on. State of business, employment, conversion,.. foreign capital etc. So, the basic parameters that we have and that we know each other more responsibly, and, I would say, more determinedly about all this. Today I read in the paper that in the area of another entity in the RS that... foreign investment due to non-operation, because of these problems, it affects the whole country, to get, I say, if that is all so, unfortunately, to get such answers and to somehow follow these developments and these problems and to try... thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4962	Please submit your question to the service in writing now or later. Mr. Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4963	Madam Chairman, I am speaking to you with a question, perhaps as a suggestion or suggestion. I have the impression that this kind of debate in Parliament often opens up a disagreement and differences between us MPs. And I learned a long time ago that 90% of people don't agree with each other, things they don't know, and they don't understand. I therefore delegate the proposal to the College of the House that issues not directly addressed to the Executive Authority or to the BiH Presidency are addressed to groups of representatives from BiH's electoral units and that we gather from that field the right information and situation. I'm putting myself on, here I am, at my disposal to bring real information from Posavina Canton, about the state of education, since I belong to, if I came from election unit number V. So I think that this way we would respond to our representation role, we would be there on the ground, we'd be binding the overall situation, and then we'd get the opinion of a group of representatives from that field, so we wouldn't politicize with practical life and problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4964	Thank you, too. The College quickly consulted and found that this, your proposal does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, but your initiative is to establish the greatest and the better dialogue between MPs is quite correct and it is out of the Rules of Procedure and we as the College will become and assist you in the framework of your competence. Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I agree, gentlemen, that we have taken up to 60 minutes, taken 50 minutes, and that we are, however, rational and that this item of the agenda is over. 22 We move to the 3rd point of the agenda. Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH The report from the Commission you received from the College. As you have seen, the College has failed to agree on the Predol's Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. Now it's up to us to make the House known, it's according to Article 65(4). I don't think we should remind the MPs, but that we should approach the plea. Therefore, I call on the MPs to plead. Who's answering for a word? There's no words here. There's no debate, Mr. Cuplov. It's just a vote, but we're not going to run a raps session, because we can't have a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to respect my colleagueCupl request to address us, to finger the business procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4965	Let me, in a certain way, comment on this and if this is not the case, because I have no intention of discussing it, but I am a member of the committee responsible for this issue and I would like to say that this report is, in fact, an quantifiable example of how we do not adopt laws that are of vital interest to the state of BiH. The return of this law to a regular procedure by our vote and it is very realistic to assume that it will not win back the entity's majority and we are, in fact, an extremely important area, going back months. The amendments proposed by the commission were aimed at improving the quality of the proposed law in the sustainable return segment. We're the people who went around the field and talked and saw what conditions these people live in. I ask you nicely, if there is such a possibility, so I ask, I would very much like to take advantage of my parliamentary opportunity to seek a break and try to bring this issue into line at the level of the chairing clubs. Maybe this way we try to save this law. If that's possible?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4966	Thank you very much. First, let's see each club has the right to request a break of 30 minutes, to get back to our problem, I'm asking you, I'm going to read Article 65 of Section 4. If the College fails to reach agreement, or if it achieves agreement with a new solution which was not subject to the House vote, the decision will be taken by the majority of the total number of MPs present and voting, provided that the votes of the MPs against do not contain two-thirds or more of the MPs elected from each entity. Therefore, we are at the end of all possibilities. We need to make a statement. If the law passes, then there is no problem, if the law does not pass, so it does not get the required majority, there is no problem that the Council of Ministers prepares a new version of the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons. I assume they're ready to prepare a new variant and release it immediately. But I'm asking you not to have a discussion, because there's no argument on this matter according to the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of 23 Cuplov, but really, there's a way out in what I said. That they withdraw or that the Council of Ministers withdraws the proposal and prepares for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4967	I just want to remind you that we discussed this in the 7th month and that you, as chairman, were obliged to call on the College in that sense within three days and that we already have a procedural delay. When we stick to procedure, it's not good. In this segment, I suggest to the Council of Ministers that in the event of a negative outcome of the vote, it uses a business possibility, an urgent reference to the debate of the new proposal, means urgent discussions within the meaning of Article 104 or perhaps even Article 105. If you had been with me in the Drinj area or in eastern Herzegovina, then you would have known why I insist on making it very, very fast. People live in tents under impossible conditions. You need to know that it's a very, very urgent situation, it's wintertime, and I'd like to speed this up anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4968	Thank you very much. Mr. brkati, but I beg you, there's no discussion to get us out of this problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4969	I, as you know, am the president of that committee that Mr. Cuplov is talking about. This commission, indeed, is trying to work and to improve the work of both this Parliament and the situation on the ground. We Bogda to prepare a report from our last trip to BiH next week. Mr. Cuplov knows exactly what he's saying, and so do I. I just said here that this would be a problem and that unfortunately today it would be rejected. Denied because the Alliance disagrees. There's no consensus in the Alliance. Here's the opposition. We state this law. This law needs BiH citizens. Which the Alliance can't do if the Alliance sits down and say let's pass the law. What Cup Break suggests. Take gentlemen from the Alliance all breaks. Here we will vote for the law. This law, which wants BiH citizens well, should be voted on with these amendments. Why are you gentlemen silenced from the Alliance? Say you will not allow the citizens of BiH to pass the right law. We've been on board both commission and field. We know the situation. You know the situation, but you don't have a consensus amongst yourselves, unfortunately. You take the Alliance and meet with me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4970	Thank you very much. The word came from Vice-President Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4971	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, in order to avoid confusion, we worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we tried to bring this text into line with the law. Since it's a very important and important law. I can tell you that I and this law will support it if it is at the polls. It's not important for me to formally pass an act of voting without having a law. I would therefore propose to the Council of Ministers, given that it is a very important law, which I see is supported by all clubs, it is a matter of financial nature of 24 necessary financial means to implement this law. I don't think there's any man who's against the spirit of that amendment that's been to provide people with a consumer basket compared to that time of six months. I suggest, if the solution is, that the Council of Ministers remove this bill from the vote temporarily, that in a break or in a break until the next session until 24 we lose nothing. The worse the message will be if we refuse that law, so it simply doesn't cost us anything to back down that law that the Council of Ministers and MPs try to find one acceptable text, that perhaps within the required fines. The funds, because it also requires entities, cantons, funds, to just try to find a satisfactory form. So, let's not vote on this law, just move on to the next point, if possible today's Council of Ministers report, if not to call it our next session. I think we should make that effort and help narrow down the text. Here, I would like the Council of Ministers to be, perhaps, apparent, that would be a solution or an attempt to find a solution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4972	Thank you very much. Here's the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4973	First, I think that both in this Parliament and in the Bosnian Herzegovina public, the rule of political calculations and political manipulation with the return of refugees is enough, and there is no need for us to drag each other into such a situation now and as a result not to vote such a law. To remind those who don't remember, that the public knows what this is about. The dispute between the Council of Ministers and the people who have proposed some amendments to you, Mr. brkati, is, only in the fact that the amendment that you have proposed is an amendment trying to create a financial obligation by law, which we all know perfectly that there are no funds. So no one argues that they should, to say the appropriate compensation to find and help people, however, if you want to take the debate seriously, the amendment that you have proposed is an amendment that imposes a commitment on this parliament that we know has no money. You can do a very simple calculation and see how much it is. When you see how much that is then you will see that it is more than a complete budget, which is intended for the Ministry of Refugees and Human First, which is why I suggest... if you want to conduct a serious rapsuscitation about it. I suggest that we as the Council of Ministers take note of this, that we leave this for later, for the next session, and that by then we put you in front of this Parliament with very clear calculations, and that we don't fool people, because don't put you here through us the first psychos of which is now a benefactor would share people's money, so there is no Minister Zubak, or Council of Ministers, Lagumdžija, Mihajlović, but the Alliance that doesn't. It's just about what we can handle, nothing else. I suggest we talk that way. Thank you very much. I beg you, on behalf of the College, I have asked that we do not open the debate, because there is no debate under the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to bring this agenda point to an end. Mr. Brk, you asked for a word. I ask you no more questions after you and that we go to the end of the debate, because there is no debate with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4975	I know exactly what kind of amendment I've given and what amendment the commission has adopted. This is exactly what Mr. Lagumdžija says, which is why you should be asked to tell people that they will receive funds, not promise them clouds. I claim those funds can be found, I claim. If the minister can't find the funds, he can't resign. Excuse me, gentlemen, the funds can be found. I'm saying I can get together and it's another thing if someone doesn't want to handle it. I also know how she obstructed the matter of not giving the funds. I'm in the process that the previous government had agreed on a good amount of money, but there went a delegation that went completely after the delegation. I know I can secure the funds. It's another thing if they're not provided.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4976	Thank you very much. The college has a proposal and that's next. We call for a break of 10 minutes to talk to the club heads, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and after that we will apply the Rules of Procedure, if we do not agree on Article 65(4). I'd like to ask you right now, the club chiefs and chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Secretary-General to meet us here and in 10 minutes we'll continue the session, which is gentlemen at 13 o'clock and 35 minutes. Thank you very much. The meetings of the Colleges, club heads and the Council of Ministers were held. [[PAUZA]] No consent has been reached and we should approach the vote. Article 65. Rules of Procedure. Are you looking for the word, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4977	In this very complicated situation, at the meeting we had,...I will announce it on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Gosodin Lagumdžija, otherwise, explained why the legal text could not accept such a provision, but on the other hand, I find that the Council of Ministers' special decision in the budget for the coming year could provide for and provide funds for social assistance to returnees in the first three months of their return to previous homes. The decision would also charge the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to establish criteria and ways to distribute social assistance to returnees. We hope that we will find funds in the budget and, if necessary, give up the part that is intended for the needs of reconstruction, in order to ensure these social assistance funds. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4978	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare to vote. Who's in favor of the bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you, please report. Present 39 – 22 versus 10 – abstention 7. 26 We're going to vote on entities. Who's against the Federation of BiH? Who's against us sticking to the Rules of Procedure, who's against the Federation of BiH? Thank you. Who's against the RS? Please, I understand that since we voted against the Federation of BiH, no one has voted. Who is against RS voted 10 MPs. Therefore, the law has not been passed. In accordance with Article 65, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure. Moving to point 4. Ad.4. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the draft law on international and inter-entity road transport You have also received a report on the harmonisation of this law. In accordance with Article 65(3), Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I would like to inform you that the College has reached agreement on the proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport. In view of this, we move on to another reading, in line with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Here you are, therefore, a debate on amendments. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. All right, Mr. Banjac, your objection is, Mr. Banjac, you're right. We'll see about that. We have two alternatives. Either we expand the agenda, or we leave it for the next session. That's right, that's according to the Rules of Procedure. You're absolutely right, and that's not controversial. Now we'll see what's the mood in the House of Representatives. Gentlemen, if you are not prepared or willing to discuss the amendments today, then I would suggest we not extend the agenda and leave it for the next session of the House of Representatives. Is there a consensus on that? Should we vote? Is there anyone against this proposal? There isn't. I find that this was left for the next session of the House of Representatives, according to the agenda set out today, because today was the Commission's report. Thank you very much. We're going to the fifth point. Ad.5. The preliminary law on industrial ownership in BiH – the first reading I recall, the bill was sent to MPs on 29 June 2001. The opinion of the Constitutional-Legal Commission was sent to lawmakers on July 6th. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted a report to the lawmakers on 8 August 2001. I am opening a debate on the draft law in accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure. Does the Commission want to address the House of Representatives? If we don't, we're going with a rush. Please, who's answering for the word? If there are no reports for discussion, we will go to the plea procedure according to Article 95. that refers to the first reading. Mr. Bilbija answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4979	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a short break of 10 minutes, as long as possible, or if we'd better take a lunch break now.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4980	Thank you very much, Mr. Bilbija. According to the Rules of Procedure, every club has the right to request a 30-minute break and no vote on it. I have one question. It's 14 o'clock. 27 Do you agree to take a little longer time off, take a break for lunch, and then continue the session afterwards? Is there a consensus? Gentlemen, I suggest we continue the session at 12:40. Is there enough time? Thank you very much. We were standing at point 5, which is the proposal for a law on industrial ownership in BiH -- first reading. [[PAUZA]] We had a break and I suggest we move on now. We started a debate about the bill. Here's who's answering for the word. Mr. Bilbija asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4981	The suggestion of a club whose president I am is that today we are arguing about basic principles, so in our first reading, we are not saying things about principles. So, in the meantime, the ministries have a resolute entity implementation of the principle, so that at the next session we would vote on the first reading, so we should just leave the vote on the first reading and then go straight to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4982	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. If no one answers their word, we have a proposal for a club representing Mr. Bilbi. According to the Rules of Procedure, the proposal should be voted on and, if the proposal is not accepted, they would then vote on the necessity and principles on which the draft law is based. Please, I'd like to ask you to come forward with a proposal for a club representing Mr. Bilbi. If we don't accept that, if that doesn't go away, then we'll go to the plea under Article 95(1). You heard Mr. Bilbija's suggestion. I don't think I should repeat it. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's up for that proposal? I'm asking the service to determine the number of votes. Who's against the proposal Mr. Bilbi made? Thank you. Who's restrained? - 2 Just a little bit to see the results so I'll give you my word, Mr. Banjac. Present 36 – for 12 – versus 21 – abstention 3. Therefore, the proposal did not receive the required majority. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4983	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wouldn't intervene, but I'm surprised at something. I thought there was a lot of will here to pass the law. We, instead of accessing such a business opportunity, are deafening ourselves from such business opportunities. In Rule 95(3) of the Rules of Procedure, it allows, instead of voting on the principles of return, if there is a feeling that the principles will not go away, so that the Commission will build it up and I think there is a basis for adding that the two resolution entity ministries agree on controversial matters and that the law is passed, and as far as you know, gentlemen, in accordance with Article 95(1), if principles are rejected, it is considered that the law has been rejected and that it has not been in the procedure either. Really, does 28 here cost a number of people that the law is rejected and not passed? Let's make a deal. I don't see any reason why we can't agree to pass the law. I think there's really a chance that the law will pass. First, no one will participate in the discussion. Secondly, it feels like the law has a problem with principles because one club has expressed doubts. Which is why we don't respect that business opportunity and save one law in the process. I'm asking you to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4984	Thank you very much. Vice-President Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4985	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, the Industrial Property Act is in spirit and in agreement with the White Paper, so on. predicting BiH adapting to 24 areas according to European Community standards. Industrial ownership, absolutely not, is simply not touched by essential issues in terms of some political controversy or the possibility of its rejection. Secondly, we do not have a request from any resolute ministry to set the need to bring the two ministries' views on the law into line. Three, if we were really obliged, to simply consult entity instruments each time, i.e. authorities such as entity governments or entity ministries to get consent to some laws. So we're going to introduce a new procedure to a small door, which is going to weigh on us, and there's no way we're going to get the result that's expected of us, which means that we're adopting laws. Who can really be bothered by the Industrial Property Act, which is based on the latest standards of the European Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4986	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4987	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, if our club has already expressed the reservation, Mr Bilbija's announcement earlier, means that there are reasons, there are objective reasons why we cannot support this law at this time. However, if there is a business possibility that the law is not refused, rather than that the procedure should be extended to the next session, to leave room for the resolution ministries to consult, to agree with each other. I see no reason, if, indeed, this law is so important and it is and if there is a good will for most of us to adopt this law, then why are you against it? It doesn't make sense. If the law is important, if we want to and support it, and there is only a short time left for this law to be passed, which is why there is no goodwill from all of you to accept this proposal from Mr. Bilbija. To leave the possibility for the regular ministries to agree on everything, and there are issues. So it's not that simple, we all have to invest, if we want the final result. We all have to make enough effort to finally have that law. Therefore, gentlemen, you can't ask us to give up 29 of our remarks and you're like those who want to make a birth law and vote against it. Therefore, you still have time to change your mind if, indeed, you have a good intention of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4988	A colleague of Emina Zaćiragić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4989	I welcome all present. I've come to understand the proposal from the RS MPs' club that we have three readings. Please, it's not nice with some kind of speech skills to lead us astray. There was a proposal to discuss the principles of what is normal in the first reading, but not to re-read, but only principles, and to discuss first reading at the next session. The Rules of Procedure do not foresee three readings, please nice. With the first reading, there goes the vote on the principle. When I voted against it, I voted against three readings and let the club stand down. Whether to request a postponement for the next session of this text or to vote for the text, or to put amendments, but we have made a mistake, many of us have been confused about this proposal. The proposal wasn't clear. It is suggested that we discuss something so that it is not the first reading, so that the first reading is at the next session and then the second reading again means three readings. It doesn't have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4990	Wrong quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4991	If there's any need, if anyone doesn't understand, I'll do it again. I've been waiting so long to discuss the principles today. At the next session, we'll just vote on the first reading. So I asked for a delay so we wouldn't vote today without voting on the next session just by reading and going straight to the second reading. So it's not three readings, it's two votes and two readings, and in the meantime to build principles. If someone doesn't understand, they can ask for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4992	Mr. Malkić, this is no time to vote. Boro Bjelobrk asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4993	I'm going to try not to figure out what I could have sensed by listening to the explanations that they're saying that today we're talking about who you want about principles and at the next session to plead. I have been working on my distinguished colleagues proposing that I hear the proposal of your new principles, and I am ready and well for BiH today to raise my hand to ask the basic promoter to amend our law on this context, including our amendments. I have to admit, I'm not inclined to respond to that kind of appeal that we have to trust someone. I'll trust someone when they make good arguments to change the law. I invite you to continue in accordance with the Psolovnik, with respect I will fully listen to my colleagues, who probably have innovations in relation to the proposed text. I'm working very hard to advocate full cooperation to get 30 to a better version of the text. We can only get to that once we open the debate. I'm not ready to believe you...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4994	I don't see the reason why my colleague Bilbi, on behalf of the club, is asking for a delay, for reasons they didn't state the reasons, or principles that they wouldn't accept eventually, so that the bill would be prolonged so that the law wouldn't collapse in its entirety. However, there is a business possibility for the next reading, they may be preparing the amendment and voting on amendments rather than postponing it indefinitely, for the reason that we received this material on 18.6. and now it is 9.10. and we have kept it in some procedure for four months but out of procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4995	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've come out to say about this item on the agenda, that we've recently had a representative of the Ministry, who explained the essence of this law to us and it seems to me that we've been discussing some principles there and that this law, or this text, as it is today on our benches, has been accepted as a commission. I don't see any reason not to talk about principles today, the way it was supposed to be and simply end up with this first phase today. So, I am to discuss the principles, I am to accept this law. In no way am I to say, as someone said earlier, that one legal act, or draft, is three times what we read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4996	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can briefly consider this the way we know how it will work and what the Rules of Procedure tells us. We have a proposal, we have the opinion of the promoter, we have other assessments of it, and we know the need for it. I, as a man who is somehow related to technique, really know what it is and what importance and need to adopt it and consider it. We can't go beyond what the Rules of Procedure has prescribed, the final article 95.itd. So we're considering the first question of the proposal. Changes and additions to be given and to be followed by a second reading, where clear amendments can still be made. I have the impression that many colleagues are unable to give now, to make some suggestions, etc. But they still have a chance at another reading. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Presidency who is holding the presidency, in my opinion I should have put this proposal first and then a proposal from my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4997	Thank you for your good intentions. This is our new MP who has quite well mastered the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Who's on the phone? Please don't throw it away. Let's move on. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Amidžić. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4998	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, the House's Rules of Procedure should be a condition of security, a normal function of the House, to ensure that we do the work, in the way we wrote it in this document, but it does not have to be the subject of a game of words whether it is two or three readings etc. I understand, I think very clearly this is about challenging the principles and constitutional basis of this law. So, one club is questioning the basis of which the law came from. We can discuss now as much as you want whether we will plead or not. But the club has expressed it, meaning it's an unwillingness to support this foundation constitutionally given. If other clubs from the entity join in, this law will experience the fate of not passing in the first reading. So, we're really going to say no to him today, and we're going to give up on him in the first place, and we're just gonna lose time, we're going to waste our time, as we say. Is it better to develop and cultivate and the methods of communication on the relation of this Parliament and the parliaments of the entities, and that is also possible by the Constitution so that we can come to a possible solution to the required law, or is it better that we lead this to a final act, I don't know, but I understand the essence of this debate. If the club that my colleague has presented to me here feels that further communication to the next session could create repairs of these principles and grounds that would ensure that we bring one law of this content, then I think it would be better to go with a polemic that will lead to the law not being passed in the first reading, so be my guest. So much, so I suggest we determine what might be the fate of this first reading. If it's his destiny for today to fall I'm not for that kind of variant, and if it's fate to start a debate, which would allow us to get to the law, it would be more constructive for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u4999	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, I apologize to my colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Commission for repeating here in front of parlament, what I was saying on the Constitutional Commission. At the same time, I would like to point out why it does not go hand in hand to pass legal regulations, which we consider BiH is needed. One of these regulations is this law, but be assured not in this form. I've heard here a qualification that this is a sha... law. Gentlemen, read in an explanation and he is not as bad as the other legal projects that are being delivered to this House, and he is not bad at that at least part of the section relating to a single formulaion, not to its essence, for the reason that he ate the prescribed law of the former Yugoslavia. That's what he's saying in his explanation. So, he's not modern, let's be clear right now. But the main problem is that someone is persistently trying, and that someone in this case is the Council of Ministers, because this is a proposal from the Council of Ministers, that it prejudges things and that the constitutional basis for the law is looking where it really doesn't have to look, even if in these cases, so it is said there in the explanation that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 3. The Constitution, and Article 3. The constitution defines foreign policy. Therefore, this law has nothing to do with foreign policy, in terms of foreign policy defined by the Constitution, so when the motionaries rarely try to explain it, they say there is no, because those rights that are protected can be used abroad, so that is now, but it really has nothing to do with foreign policy, these are some other relations, etc. Gentlemen, 32 Dayton regulations and the Constitution of BiH, and we should respect that constitution, he prescribed things very clearly. From Mr. Bilbija's exposure, and also many times you express it to the pans on both the Constitutional Commission and other ways. Indeed, the question is whether well BiH wants those people who break this constitution to want to come up with some kind of solutions, which are not high-quality or professional and do not give it such a way to go as long as the BiH Constitution exists. Well, you've seen here the expressed desire of both entity governments to participate in a quality way in the adoption of a roof law on the adoption of the Law on Industrial Property of BiH, so when they want to do so and there is an establishment of a basis why gentlemen don't even try it. So you don't tip those who claim to be brought in that way. We had, I asked on the Constitutional Commission my separate opinion to meet this Parliament. That kind of thing, for example. from the Bureau to the Council of Ministers, we are given draft laws and an explanation that the basis for the adoption of this law is Article 1. The Uastav. I said neither is our country so foolish, nor is its people such that representatives of some professional service put it in front of the largest authority, because since the constitution exists, from the first to the day today, take any state or democratic or who had a constitution and that somewhere it is said to be based on Article 1. The constitution makes some kind of law. It's just impossible. It's an insult to that country by whoever wrote it like that. I can't really interpret it any other way. That's why I would support these attempts, too, if, indeed, in one constitutionally envisaged way, the dp of the desired form of this law, because there is a will. I would ask, as an MP of this House, for I have fenced myself that this one is not so bad. But when you see certain legal regulations coming before the Constitutional Commission, believe me, I am ashamed as an MP, in general, to read it, because these laws are simply not applicable. You see, criminal provisions are prescribed, you don't know who's going to apply them, etc. They give it simple solutions that can't possibly be implemented in the existing BiH, and then individuals come out and exult in swearing in BiH to the state, so she says, see, that's what we need, that's necessary, etc. You see, we have a case here and here, although it's not in a drastic case where it says, the constitutional basis is the Convention on Human Rights, and even more so when we made such an observation there, then it says, the protection of the Convention on Human Rights is directly applied. It is gentlemen that it is written in a certain sense in the Dayton Regulation, because the creators of the Dayton signature wanted us to really apply the Conventions on Human Rights, but I am now asking this gentleman, who is proposing it, is it possible and whether there is a single regulation or project in the world, which was created there under the Conventions on Human Rights and not referring to the Constitution of that country. So I said so. Once the police, here at the Sarajevo Council, a police officer very culturally stopped me. You know how culturally dictated the pros, on whom I am, was with me and MP Kovačević, very culturally stopped me, very culturally called to the regulation, based on whom I should be punished, etc. because I did commit an offence, so he didn't say on the basis of the Convention on Human Rights, I punish you, but said I punish you under the laws of that and that Federation of BiH etc. It is impossible for gentlemen to directly apply the Convention on Human Rights, but it is implemented through the legal projects of a state, and we can warn that individual laws do not comply with the Convention on Human Rights, etc. Gentlemen, there are problems in this, which are not subject to specific legal projects, which, let me say, are really needed by BiH. Because they are unprofessional and because we have non-stop rapes and calls for constitutional grounds that do not exist in the Constitution 33 BiH. For which, if he will, here I repeat, there is a founding of the foundation,... all that is agreed upon by the entity is passed to the authority of BiH. Here's the deal, we don't give them. But we're making something that's inconclusive, swearing in BiH, and I'm not repeating, I guess, I don't know what else to say, in some attempt to undo the entity, but that way you can't undo it. Look, with this kind of work, you know who contributes to BiH's destruction? These are what they're proposing. How there'll be a state if she doesn't have a few laws, and this way she won't have one and she'll be gone. Look, if the state doesn't have a law, Osman, I didn't say that in the sense of who you might interpret. But look, a state without a law cannot exist. If there's anywhere, you say it. My wish isn't to disappear, but if it isn't. If this bothers the chair of what I'm saying, take my word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5000	No, I don't mind, but you'll cause unnecessary debates.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5001	No unnecessary discussion, man, any unnecessary debates. If this is an unnecessary debate, therefore, gentlemen, I have fenced myself, I think BiH's roof law is needed in this regard, because I know what it means. I know very well. Believe me, if I knew how to make it and if I'd made it, I'd be a hundred times better than this. If you mind this discussion, Mr. Chairman, take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5002	I won't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5003	So, to finish that thought that I started, which may have bothered some, I really don't know that there's a country in the world, and BiH is a state in Dejton, it's not slow gentlemen, but if there's no law, how it's going to work. A state without law cannot function, and here we are neither prepared nor able to pass this law. That's what I meant by Mr. brkati. Well, come on, let me finish my thought. We'd better adopt a few, even if they're no good, than not have any. So I ask you to find, indeed, the ways in which we will come up with these legal projects without repeating it, these ways are, indeed, contained in the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5004	Thank you very much, Mr. Mijatović. The word came out, is it a replica? Here you go, Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5005	Very short. I don't like the threats from the pay phone, and I don't like to say that the states will disappear, and then there was a talk that a nation would disappear. It won't go away. But if Mr. Mijatović is well-intentioned here when he says yes, let's make the law even if it doesn't work. Let's get this one and we'll fix it, if that's the case. However, 34 this is not a replica of Mijatović, this is a replica of the Alijansa. Gentlemen, you're the legislator. Come on, please, once you've agreed to the law, let your MPs be in Parliament for something. You will always blame the opposition for not having the law. Come on, you get along, you propose the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5006	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Avidć. My remarks regarding Mr. Mijatović's exorcism also refer to Mr. Brk's exorcism. I'm afraid we're moving away from the agenda. Excuse me, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5007	I wouldn't take the word anymore, but objectively MP brkati is apostrofirati and repeating the Alliance's apartment. I beg you in this House of Representatives have club Members. The absolute term of the Alliance, forget the term of the Alliance and use the terms set up by the Rules of Procedure and established and structured by this House, is one. Two, the election campaign hasn't started yet, and if it's a pre-election campaign before the SDA congress, I'm asking you to leave it for some other occasions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5008	I'm asking you to distract yourself. For word's sake, Mr. Cupplow Mustafa called a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5009	Since Mr Avdić had previously elaborated very clearly and beautifully on the reasons for the submission of this law to a parliamentary debate, I would not have talked about it, but I would say that this law and remind all of us at the 11th session of Parliament was proposed under Article 104 of the series of laws that are very important, because if they were not important, we would not have followed this urgent procedure. It's been a lot of vaccines ever since. I must remind some speakers that BiH is a state and is not an entity association and at this point we are not obliged to collect the opinion of entity governments. You won't find it in any of the acts by which this... Also, I will single out only one piece, attempts at divorce and extending the adoption of this bill, has direct negative repercussion on all of us. The 9th session of the European Union of BiH since 29 March 2001 found that to remove inter-entity trade barriers. At the state level, an industrial property law should be passed. That is one very practical reason, which, of course, should certainly be appreciated. But as an MP, I must say, always here with full respect I accept the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, this body, which, in a certain way, gives us all the material we get to consider and give us its opinion. I don't think I should question her if she has a good will. The acute consensus on the commission is divided, but probably not necessary. In that segment, I don't know what we're discussing here, but then we have to admit that we don't trust the Constitutional-First Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5010	I thank the esteemed representative Mr. Cuplow for correcting the false allegations. Mr. Mirko Banjac called.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5011	Dear gentlemen, I think we should leave the dictionary that is pulling us away from the core of the problem. If someone's going to be collecting someone's opinions, no one's asked. The BiH constitution is clear in Article 1 where BiH is said to be a state composed of two completely equal entities. So, Mr. MP, entities are state-of-the-art, because they form a state and I ask you, it's not about gathering opinions, it's about the obligation that the entity's jurisdiction cannot be taken over without the entity's consent and I ask you to leave out the Indornian attitude towards the entities, as I would ask all those who have an illogical attitude towards the state of BiH to forget about this inhospitation, and I do not allow anyone to take BiH more to themselves than I do. I'm begging you gentlemen, I don't think that's right. I ask you to leave such a dictionary in this House. Secondly, gentlemen, the legislator in the lack of arguments has called for Article 3. point 1.b) and if we all know who is not and who is the lawyer that this cannot be a legal basis and there has been a lot of speech on this, but the Gopsod, obviously we care more about the politics of some here than serious work. Let's adopt the law in a way that will be able to pass a law that follows, say the Foreign Chamber, where entities have agreed and we just need to respect what is done. That's how we learn in this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5012	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Deputy Minister Jadranko Prlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5013	Dear fellow MPs, the law that is now on the agenda, may be the most unpleasant thing for this type of debate. He does not have that political connotation, and indeed, it also allows the Dayton Peace Agreement to be processed as such as an absolute crowd in the international legal area. He speaks, just to remind, of patents, stamps, industrial design and geographical origin. 99% of it is the technical law, which is related to the existing large number of conventions our country has adopted... regulated by the World Trade Organisation and I don't think it's good to be subject to different political options, which represent the interpretation of the Constitution of BiH, entities and the like. He is, in fact, also related to what this parliament has adopted earlier and when it comes to this area and when it is formed, let's say, the Institute for Standards and Measurement, intellectual property, I helped compromise in that part, and that is a compromise that has been reached among the two entities, among the two entities this institute has been made. In preparation of this law, it was done within the framework of a constitutional working group, which actually implements the Rod-map and bringing BiH closer to what the EU is looking for. 36 So, this debate probably has its place but maybe when it comes to some other matter. Here, 99% are purely technical issues that enable, among other things, that BiH can finally be integrated into the part that means, absolutely, technical things, that it can register some patents, which come to these patents in BiH, stamps, geographical origins, which are important, for example for wine production, etc. I would ask MPs to come to terms with it, and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, along with the entity groups that did this law, to try to come together with us to the best text of this law. This law is, one of the conditions that... at the Rod-map.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5014	Thank you very much, Mr. Prlić. Mr. Borić Adem. I'm sorry, straight to the replica...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5015	I, for the sake of maybe a little clarification, don't need to explain what I said. I would say that much of what Mr. Prlić said is standing, because this is not Solomon's letter, it's exactly what you've been saying and there are many solutions that have always been in the world, because every country has this kind of law. But, gentlemen, this is what you wrote. It wasn't me. Here's what's standing here. The law on the protection of inventions, technical improvements and signs, through the protection of industrial ownership in BiH, is based on solutions, which are determined by certain changes, taken from the former Yugoslav law on the protection of inventions, technical improvements, signs and distinctions. Look further, in the process of implementing the laws on patents, signs and distinctions, the official list of R BiH, number 93, number 21/93 and 13/94 also applies several federal rules that have been taken over and applied as republican regulations. What does this mean, Mr. Prlić? In an explanation, look as Republic regulations, what's your sign of a republic here, is that BiH in 93? It's not a Dayton BiH, and you're right. Look, why are you putting it on, to irritate not to vote, etc. Don't let me read any further, so I can support all that and cause unnecessary replicas, etc. If this were to be qualityd and explained, it was enough to take the French law and everyone here would vote and respect the procedure, which was adopted and envisaged by the BiH Constitution. But someone won't do it on purpose.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5016	Thank you very much. Mr. Borić Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5017	The SDA MPs' club adopted this bill yesterday as a text that could go further. We have heard some new opinions today and some attitudes, which we absolutely respect and think as a method of work, that it would be good to respect what is heard of this speaker today. But here, the SDA takes responsibility as a political party to accept the draft of this law, that is, the principles of this law. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5018	Thank you very much, let's move on. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? The members of the College have now agreed to take a break of 10 minutes and try to find a way out of this situation with the club's bosses, if not, we will have to go to the vote, the Rules of Procedure is completely clear. Thank you very much. Break 10 minutes. We'd like to meet the club chiefs at... We stopped at point 5. Proposal for a law on industrial ownership in BiH, first reading. [[PAUZA]] We had a brief consultation. I would now like to give my word to the Council of Ministers, or to Deputy Minister Jadranko Prlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5019	Ladies and gentlemen, when we received information about the outcome of the talks that were held during this break, we actually had no alternative but to propose to this home, but to continue the debate on this law at the next session, because, apparently, not the adoption of this law would lead to this situation that it could not appear before this house in the next six months. Perhaps the next time the debate is held at the House of Representatives, the situation is something different and will have a different argument of being in a different, perhaps time and space organised, so that it may bring some more favourable result.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5020	Thank you, Mr. Prlić. This is fully in line with the powers of the Council of Ministers, who proposed the law to the House of Representatives, which submitted the bill to the House of Representatives. We're not voting on this, we're just receiving this as information, to the knowledge. Please, let's move on to the next item of the agenda, and that's the bill... Here you go, Mr. Borić. I didn't see you looking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5021	In these two days, the party of the Democratic Action Party decided on this proposal on industrial property law, first reading and now on this break, the club remained on the same principles of a firm decision to vote on the law mentioned, in order to at least seemingly lose the rage of today's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5022	Thank you very much. We're in the next situation. Since the Council of Ministers pulled that off, then we can't vote. The different situation was if it hadn't been for the Council of Ministers to withdraw, then we'd have to vote. I think the situation is quite clear. 38 Please respect and move on, if you agree, to the 6th point of the agenda? Ad.6. The proposal for a law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH – I remind you, it is the second reading of the Proposal for this Law, I will not repeat from the beginning only the key thing that, recalling the MPs of this bill, was removed from the 9th session of the House, on the proposal of the Extended College, for further consultations in the chambers of entities. We agreed then to initiate, to ask the entity chamber to sit down and agree with one prepared attitude to come to this house. This law is the responsibility of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Gentlemen, I'm opening a debate. The word is Mr. Banjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5023	Dear gentlemen, since I have had one number of amendments to this law and which the Commission has rejected. I re-invested them, contacted the chambers and got the letters of the chamber, I have both letters here, this is the letter of the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation, and this is the letter that came to me from the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of RS. It seems to me, I will read to you the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia asking me to give up the amendment, to leave the amendment to Article 2 on Article 22 and Article 28. In the letter of the Federation of BiH Chamber of Commerce, it might be best to multiply the letter if it doesn't turn out to be someone who cheats here, which is why I'm going to, I've got my own name. It says "Mr. Mirko" upstairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5024	Can we agree to multiply that in the course of the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5025	It's not a problem, if there's a need, I'm here. I am reading to you the letter of the Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of Commerce. Regarding the draft law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce, which has been discussed in the BiH Parliament, we are familiar with Mr Mirko Banjac's amendments and the positions of the RS Chamber of Commerce No. 02153/1 since 19.9.2011. Now I'm reading to you what I find important not to abuse your time. The Chamber of Commerce/The Chamber of Commerce of the Federation of BiH, believes that the views of the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of RS regarding the bill can be accepted, with a member who regulates the legal heritage or, in particular, determines that the division of property, business space... of 10 Branislav Đurđevo street between the Chamber of Commerce of BiH and the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Commerce of the Federation of BiH, is accordingly divided into functions, i.e. competences, including professional... 39 There's a letter here, gentlemen, if there's a need to multiply, there's no problem. I'm ready to multiply. I'm willing to give up all my amendments, except for those that are consistent with the chambers. So much for me, and I'm giving up, officially from all amendments except the amendments to Article 2, Article 22 and Article 28 that have agreed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5026	We can repeat, you stay for the amendments to the article
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5027	To Articles 2, 22 and 28, and I refer to letters. I'm giving up on the ostlah.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5028	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Here you go. Mr. Željko Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5029	My colleagues from the Expansive College remember that I have announced one amendment, including that the chambers have agreed to their views, so that I do not continue to disturb, I am giving up this amendment, to bring this law to an end. It's contained, so that we don't open up a new debate and get to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5030	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a debate, taking part in the debate? The rest are amendments. Three amendments remain, all others are withdrawn. Therefore, the debate can only be about amendments to Articles 2, 22 and 28. On the other amendments, the other amendments have been withdrawn and are no longer subject to rescribing. Here you go. The MPs have received the text of the amendment, but it is no problem to renew, if necessary I will read it or ask the Proposer to read it. Who's answering for a word? I suggest a five-minute break for the administration to prepare what it takes to be able to access the Chamber of Federation letter, and I have been informed that you have not received a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia. In 10 minutes, gentlemen, we will proceed. The situation is next. [[PAUZA]] Of all the amendments that have been submitted, there are three left. You've got three amendments. They're on your desk. This is Amendment 2 on page 1. That is Amendment 14 on page 2 and that is Amendment 19 on page 3 and one small technical correction. In Article 28(2), so it should read, so it is a purely technical mistake, it is referred to as Article 28(2). But without a dilemma, there won't be any problem, that's the amendment next. I guess the MPs all got these letters they were talking about. I would no longer repeat what I was saying and what was known to everyone. I suggest we continue to discuss the amendments. If there are any reports for the hearing, if not, we must move on to the vote. The word is from Mr. Bogić. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5031	Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, the Social Democratic Party did not have an amendment to the draft law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH. Since the House of Peoples passed this law and, starting with... The SDP MPs' club that we have this law and that it has been in the process for too long, we have been sitting at the break of this session and we propose that the law be passed in the same form as the House of Peoples, so that we do not form a new committee for reconciliation and go into further procedure. So that the SDP Club can accept an amendment to Article 2 which reads in addition to text or new Article 2a) as adopted by the House of Peoples that in all its activities the Chamber will act in co-operation and agreement with a) the Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Commerce, b) the Chamber of Commerce of Commerce and C) the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, in the following text, the Ministry of Foreign Trade. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5032	Thank you very much. Does this apply to Amendment 2 or do you propose a new amendment? Is your amendment identical to the amendment of 2nd Mr. Mirko Banjac? I'm asking for that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5033	The people's homes adopted the same text as Article 2a).
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5034	And is it the same text as Mr. Banjac? So the text is identical. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? So we have the text in front of us, we don't have the text of the House of Peoples. We can only vote on the text in front of us. According to the procedure, when they adopt, if the texts that are different in both homes are adopted, then the process of reconciliation goes. If the texts are the same, then the process of alignment is not needed as you said, Mr. Bogić. If no one is answering for a debate, we need to approach the procedure for voting on the amendment. It's about amendments that haven't been withdrawn. The amendments that have been withdrawn are not subject to discussion. Do you stay with your amendments, Mr. Banjac? Thank you very much. Let us ask you a question, you said your position, I think we can move on then. So we have before us Amendment 2. It's about the amendments submitted by Mr. Banjac. Amendment 2 which, as you see, is in line with the amendment that has been made, which was adopted on the House of Peoples, which Mr Bogić mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. It's nothing controversial, we're voting on your amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5035	I'm not arguing anything, but who needs to create an atmosphere like this. I legally gave up part of the amendment, legally stayed at a certain number, explained and writtenly provided an insight into why I am and now suddenly my text is rewritten and it's called someone's amendment. Please, that's not serious, not to say the hard word. 41 Second, there is no text of the House of Nations here. If there's any, show me. I ask you not to deceive Parliament. If there is a text of the House of the Peoples, give us the burden of the House of the Peoples. I'm looking for the text of the House of Peoples. Our Rules of Procedure states that laws are first adopted in the House of Representatives. I said once again, gentlemen, don't stop the confusion in this House's work. Read the Rules of Procedure. If I have to, I'll do it now. I don't care that this is happening. I don't know who cares about these things happening here. Respect the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5036	We agree, you repeated what I said. You may have misunderstood my comment. I have compared the text of the amendment, but not doubtless, you have submitted the amendments, you have declared yourselves to remain with your amendments, and according to the Rules of Procedure, your amendments must be voted. So, we're going to the voting procedure, if no one's answering for a word anymore. Amendment 2. Gentlemen, do you all have before you the text of the amendment, that I do not read the amendments? Yes, you do. Amendment 2. Mr. Banjac, page one, if you find it, I'll put you to the vote. Who's in favour of the proposed amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? They voted in favour of Amendment 2: Of the 38 MPs – 30 for – 6 against – abstention 2. There is no need for an entity vote, it is clear that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 14 to page 2. Please approach the vote. Who's in favor of Amendment 14. And today it is amendment 2 to the regular number of votes. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Of the 38 present who voted – 14 against 23-1 abstention. The amendment did not receive the required majority and the amendment did not pass. We approach the vote on the 3rd amendment, which is the amendment under regular number 19. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in favour of the proposed amendment? Who's against the amendment? Who's restrained? Of the 38 present, who voted for 15 – against 22 – a abstention of 1 MP. The amendment did not receive the required majority and the amendment was not accepted. I find that Amendment 2 which has been adopted has become an integral part of a single law to be voted on, and that is not the case with Amendments 2 and 3, and that is the amendment here under the regular number of the 14th amendment under the regular number 19. Gentlemen, after voting on amendments, he approaches the vote on the law. Here you go, Mr. Stokić. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5037	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a 10 minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5038	Break 10 minutes. Proposal for a law on the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce. [[PAUZA]] We had a break at the club's request that Mr. Bilbija's boss was. Does the club have any? Here you go, Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5039	Ladies and gentlemen, since two amendments have not been passed in the previous vote, which we appreciate is very important, which concerns funding and the division of assets. We feel that there should be nothing controversial in all of this, and that is why at this time we are not ready to support the law in this version, but we leave the possibility to move forward, through the agreement that a solution will be found that will be acceptable to all and that in the next session we adopt this law. So we leave the possibility of a consensus until the final decision is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5040	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If not, I suggest we approach the voting procedure. I call upon the messengers to plead. Who's in favour of the proposed law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Of the 30 present for 25 – abstention 11 - an entity vote is required. Who is from the Federation of BiH for the proposed law? Thank you. Who is from Republika Srpska for the proposed law? Thank you. I find that 22 from the Federation – I find that the law passed in the first round, but in the second no, because there is no entity majority and corresponding to Article 65(1), it is necessary to reach an entity majority, which is five votes from the RS in this case and I would not use Article 65(2) as it is not possible to resolve this issue in the break. So, gentlemen of Parliament, it remains Article 65 of Law 3 and that is that the College of the House of Representatives is trying to reach agreement. Thank you. Let's move on. Moving to point 7. Ad.7. The audit report, on the annual accounts audit for 2000, is on the subject of three ministries. Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The main auditor has submitted a report in accordance with Article 13(4). The Revision Act is fine. Business. The report was sent to lawmakers on 6 July 2001. Our 43 commission, our home committee, is the Finance Commission and the budget has submitted a report and is addressed to the MPs on September 13th. I remind you that we have taken this off the agenda so that the commission, our commission, could prepare its report thoroughly. As soon as the report was delivered to the House, we sent him on September 13th. I'm opening a debate on the report. Who's answering for a word? The Vice-President of the Commission is asking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5041	The esteemed chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, has been given me a special honour and I am pleased to address this high house of the BiH Parliament, to give on behalf of the Finance and Budget Commission some indication of the Commission's report of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, which are jointly drawn up in the same text on the revision of the fin. operations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. This is the first time both BiH Parliament's homes have submitted their report on the financial business audit of the BiH institution. I must stress that it is of great importance for the democratic practice of the BiH Parliament, as well as for the Bosnian Herzegovina public, that the submission of these reports improves the legality, rationality and transparency of the use of the budget of the BiH institution. I would especially like to express my public gratitude to the OSCE, the Office for the Audit of Sweden and the Parliament of Norway, which have contributed materially and by education to the introduction of these audit procedures into our Parliament. You've been presented with a commission report. It can be seen as the final result of a series of strategic and system-based business activities at the level of BiH institutions, in the area of financial business and in the formation of financial business control institutions by adopting the Law on Audit of Fines. The BiH institutions and the establishment of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office and the establishment of the BiH Treasury Ministry. The Commission's report on finance and budget is the fruit of teamwork by both houses of the BiH Parliament, and based on the planned analysis of the available and relevant documents and the results of the Commission's activities, which are presented as an integral part of this report, which are: the Office's report on the audit carried out by the three ministries, as noted, received these reports and they were even published in the Official Journal of BiH. Then, the correspondence of the Office for Auditing with the ministries, commission questions to the ministries, the ministry's response to questions and reports on an internal debate with ministries, i.e. the deputy ministers of August 29th of the current year. On the basis of the documentation presented, the common characteristics of the revision of the application of legal regulations and decisions on the organisation and financial accounting of the ministries could be reduced to the following irregularities. 1. Excess of budgets in most parts of the budget items of the ministry's budget. Violent Article 6 and 9. Budgetary law. 2. Detention and use for the needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina's income ministries. Violent Article 4. The law on the implementation of the budget of the institutions. That is where 44 is thought of revenue from donations through various taxes, when issuing passports and other all incomes held by individual ministries, spent them and did not enter into the budget. 3. Lack of internal rules on spending based on different types of costs. 4. Lack of planning of activities, i.e. the Ministry's work plan. Article 49. The law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 5. Unsettled obligations to suppliers. There is thought of various material costs and obligations from telephone costs to business premises, etc. who are not at peace. Six. Lack of unique records of issued travel documents, passports. And that's where we saw the problems that got implicated. Seven. Weak function of the Treasury Ministry in monitoring and controlling budget spending. 8. Responsibilities, financial indiscipline, lack of control over the implementation of projects and impacts as well as a number of other irregularities that will be presented, where appropriate, by the rapporteurs designated for each ministry in particular. So this is teamwork. Each report for each ministry consisted of two MPs, one member of the House of People, one from the House of Representatives, and they made up these reports and more specifically all questions, etc. those reporters from the House of Representatives. Vilić, as far as I know, are there and they will give you more concrete answers if you need an answer, get involved in the discussion and present the presentation. The facts presented determine the direction of activity in the next period, which could be: 1. To set up a full surveillance function for the budget spending of the ministries, with it also being controlled by the Office for Audit and the Commission for Finance and Parliament's budget. It means that it has this role of supervision, but that it can also be controlled, that it doesn't think the Treasury is above other ministries. 2. In order to consistently apply the single account system of the vault and to ensure that all revenue obtained, both from taxes, certificates, donations, passports, etc. must be entered into the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. 3. To urgently adopt the missing rules in the field of financial accounting, and normally in line with international accounting standards. 4. To make the necessary rules on costs. The Council of Ministers also submitted this information to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. 5. The Council of Ministers shall adopt a regulation on the elements of public projects which would allow the monitoring of the implementation of the projects and shall monitor the revenues and expenditures of each individual project in a orderly and up-to-date manner. Six. That the Financial Business Audit Office should be referred to an initiative to extend the area of audit and to audit the impact. Seven. That the implementation of the budget is responsible for the implementation of the budget of the ministries headed by the ministers most responsible and that the Council of Ministers is required to determine the responsibilities and sanctions for adoption and future irregularities in financial operations and budget implementation and 8. To oblige the Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives to monitor the implementation of the measures set out by the House and to report regularly to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5042	Thank you, Mr. Kovačević. We've opened a debate on who's answering for word? Here you go, Mr. Željko Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5043	The club supports this mode of work, so it supports the annual accounting audit report for 2000 of the three ministries, supports both the report and the way the Commission works for finance and the budget of the House of Representatives and asks for the audit of other budget users for 2000, not only these three ministries, but all those who used the budget in 2000 and also to revise all budgetary users for the first 9 months of the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5044	Thank you. I beg you, Mr. Bilbija, in writing to deliver this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5045	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5046	Let's move on. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Vilić Ramiz.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5047	Madam Chairman, fellow Members, I am, I think, that the Vice-President of the Finance and Budget Commission has really explained both the way the Commission works and what the Commission has come up with. But I wanted to say a few words to which the Commission met at work. I have to say here that at first we didn't have much understanding or the ministries that were in charge and which were subject to review, so that the Commission worked for a full 3 months, probably if there was more understanding that work could have been done, anything could have been done in a shorter time. It should also be pointed out here, as the Vice-President failed to say that the Commission has reached full agreement on almost all issues, which is very important. I was in charge of processing materials and as rapporteur for the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, and believe me, the audit was done for three ministries. All three can have the same apology. So the behaviour in all three ministries was identical, probably when the audit of other budget consumers would come to the same findings. And this ministry got a budget of about 760,000 KM. Even in 2000, the ministry worked as two entities, didn't even have a full business report, and it was normal to expect the Audit Office to find what it found. In the end, why did I go out for this pay phone? Please, in all cases, the Commission has proposed a proposal for measures to this House of Representatives which should be adopted in order to avoid future occurrences as we now have. In particular, for the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, some ten measures are listed there with clear deadlines on what needs to be done to ensure that this no longer occurs, and what is the commission's superior task. That's how much I thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5048	Thank you, Mr. Ramiz. Who's answering for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. Here's to joining the voting act. Here you go. Mr. Stanimirović, dear.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5049	It seems that the most we worked on this report as part of the Finance and Budget Committee, at least so far, has been the case. In order not to repeat myself, I think that Mr Kovačević has quite crediblely presented the Commission's views, and I also think it is very important that they were adopted almost unanimously, as most of them are truly unanimous. For us, it is extremely important that this is the first time written not only at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in both entities to review the work of institutions for 2000. We also expect it to expand in the future to all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this is a clear commitment of the institutions of the auditors, i.e. the Office for Auditing, and it is absolutely certain that this will happen. What I wanted to say to this occasion is, first of all, two of my recommendations or proposals for addition to the conclusions that already exist and are presented. If you have read the text of the Commission's report on finance and budget and the Commission on financial and administrative affairs at the House of Peoples, you have seen that these, all three reports, have been done methodologically in a similar way and the measures that the ministry is concerned with. Most of them are similar. What I wanted to propose, in addition to what we all supported together, refers precisely to the fact that this is the first report of the Office of Audit, so not only at the state level, but also at the level of the entities, and in this sense I suggest that better co-operation be achieved when drawing up the 2002 budget between the relevant Assembly Committees of Entitys and the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the Representative House and the House of People of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also consider it necessary for this to be a single contribution to better co-operation between the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly and the entity assemblies. We all remember that first meeting another winter between representatives of our assembly and representatives of entity parliaments, which initiated co-operation between these different levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, we are all witnessing that this is well-dead and therefore I want to launch better co-operation, especially with the commission bodies, in this case the financing committee and the budget of our assembly and both entities, because I believe that this is of paramount importance for one basic reason, which is that a large number of reasons for the poor achievement of the budget, for overcoming the budget and for many other irregularities lies precisely in the fact that our budgets still do not meet the true needs of the institutions of citizens, institutions and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In other words, when drawing up budgets in the future, better coordination is simply a necessary prerequisite in order to have the possibility that next year we will not discuss breaking the law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget. As for this proposal we heard about the revision of all ministries in 2002, we support it. We think it's 47.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5050	I apologize for the lapus you made – in 2002 you said, you are well young and can be forgiven.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5051	2000. We support the request to carry out audits and other institutions for 2000. I also find it very important to mention in this session the principle of responsibility in two senses. First, in terms of strengthening the assembly bodies, i.e. in this case, our commissions, which will allow a balance of responsibility between the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is of great importance, because the practice so far was unfortunately that MPs were very often only a voting machine, not those who really decide in Parliament. And I think this work by the Finance and Budget Commission may be a good indicator to other commissions how to work in the future. There is another kind of responsibility, because we all know that responsibility can be both political and moral individual, and rich and criminal, and I think it is inadmissible that institutions in charge have not taken on the basis of the report so far, but it will certainly be an opportunity after the adoption of this report to initiate procedures in which in a valid way the work of certain individuals will be evaluated by the competent authorities. Also, as far as the first proposal concerning the revision of institutions is concerned, I would like to remind you that we are, that the agenda point is today, so we are talking about the Commission's findings on the report on the audit carried out for 2000. We from the Social Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina believe that in a similar way should be accessed and produced, or audited, and then to the whole procedure that we have carried out this year for 2001. So there is absolutely no reason for the revision to take place for the first nine months. The budget implementation law applies throughout the year and we feel it is necessary for this assembly to conclude that the Audit Office will review all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001 and then deliver it as soon as possible to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5052	Keep going. Who's answering for a word? I think there is a high degree of agreement on the Commission's report, the auditor's report and the proposal, and I think we can go to the vote. There you go. You're looking for a word. The auditor, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5053	Dear Chairman, honourable envoys, ladies and gentlemen. The review office has done three reports. They were born long and precise so that, it's one process that takes a long time, so I'd like to make a little comment on these suggestions. I can also tell you that we have already audited three ministries, the rest of the European Integration Ministry, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of the Treasury that have sent these ministries to give an opinion. The audit of the Agency for Telecommunications, the State Border Service and the Constitutional Court is then under way. And these 6 reports, which account for about 90% of the actual costs in the 48 budget, will be here in the middle of 11 months, as far as the end of 11 months, so that we have met this main criterion, the criterion of materiality and the criteria taken when drawing up the plan, which is the risk analysis. Then we must also be current and after the revision is completed we are obliged by our regulations, and also by the criteria that the institution that trains our institutions, it is the Swedish National Audit Office that we are obliged to carry out previous audits, means in order to currentity and give recommendations to the management for certain findings in order to prevent certain irregularities, illegalities or weaknesses within an organisation. And finally, when the final accounts are done, the audit of the so-called. audit with...(confirmations), i.e. reviewing, or giving an opinion on the financial report. So we're doing practically three kinds of audits. Audit of legality, audit with confirmation or opinion on the financial report. And we also have a duty to be able to do an impact review. So I would explain to Dom a little bit that the revision is a slow and long process and that we can't do a set with our current capacities for 2000, but we did this with what I've already said almost 90% of that budget. We were obliged by law to do an audit of all institutions after 31.12.2002. And here's what we're going to do. We're going to try to do a review in 2001 with all the institutions. But I would also like to point out, when the budget rebalance comes here to support us, because as things stand, we're the only institution that's in the rebalancing proposal that has reduced its resources, and we're in the first year of work, we don't have the space solved, we don't have adequate staffing, etc. I would ask Parliament, that is, this high house, the House of Representatives, to take this into account and to support this institution in its further activities and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5054	Mr. Miletić, can we ask you a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5056	You heard that a request for review was mentioned in the debate in 2001. There are two variations. One is to review for the first nine months, and one for the whole year. What's the situation, and what's real?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5057	So I said about the year 2000 we will practically do this most important institution and we, the General Visitor, are making a plan according to the law and the plan was adopted at the beginning of the year. So, this is all some other requirements of a special review, but this is an independent institution and we can consider that additional audits, if we don't get in the way of a lot of plans. If we accepted the revision of all these institutions, it would significantly disrupt our plans and couldn't carry out a final audit for 2001. About the review in nine months. It is not common for certain periods to be crisscrossed now, but we will pay attention to the most important things in previous audits, i.e. before the accounts are completed. So now 49 to do a review for 9 months of all institutions that is practically impossible. But the individual segment that we estimate is the most significant one we will pay attention to during the previous revision. He would therefore suggest that this plan of ours be retained for you when a work report has been adopted and where exactly what is to be done, what is our plan for this year and when the previous audit begins, etc. I think this Parliament needs to satisfy what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5058	Thank you very much to the chief auditor, Mr. Ivan Miletić. If no one's answering for the debate anymore, we'd put it to a vote. So let's try to unite it. We have a report from the auditors that we need to accept, we have a report from our commission that we need to accept and we have a proposal that I agree with if I understand correctly the main auditor, and it is up to all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are beneficiaries of the budget funds for the previous year and for 2001. Do I understand you correctly? I didn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5059	My name is Samir Mušović, I am the deputy general auditor. With all due respect, I would ask the Proposer to consider only the following. We have provided you with three reports of three clients whose value in budget values exceeds 60%. With the other 6 clients we climb to almost 90%. If we exhaust ourselves with 2000 we just repeat one of those same conclusions, less similar recommendations. There is very little difference in the business of other entities in 2000. It will slow us down a lot and delay our work in 2001. As for 2001, a 9-month cut is not a significant job for us. It is only one chapter within the overall report and if we can compromise there when we make a report for 2001 that our reports have one sub-chapter concerning the review in 9 months. However, I kindly ask you to respect your proposal if we can give up the frontal audit for 2000, because it would slow us down very slowly, and the result will be almost the same as today's conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5060	We can ask a question, I apologize now. We've got a bit of a misunderstanding. To whom, which is covered by the review for 2000 and who is not, please. Either way, you two make a deal anyway. I understand that key institutions are covered by the review for 2000. Who are they? ________________: Mr Miletić counted this house in the middle of March and accepted such a plan with unanimous support. Dake, these three ministries and six new nine. We have currently completed European integration, the Ministry of Treasury and Human Rights in this, Parliament has not been working. The Constitutional Court is currently working, the State Border Service is currently being done and the Agency for Telecommunications is currently working. 50 All right, thank you. Mr. Bilbija is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5062	I won't be long after I have to, I asked you to, or the club asked for an audit. Before the review is carried out, I couldn't say it's similar and it's the same. We will therefore be able to say that when the audit is completed if they are subject to one of these, the other budget consumers are subject to it. I think we're even. And if there's a technical possibility now in nine months, then for 2001 it'll be easier. Thus, it is only preventive to do so so as not to repeat any mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5063	Let's take it one step at a time. I would have put in, if no one were to report for the vote the review report and our commission's report with the proposals that were made in those reports not to repeat. Who's for please? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I am finding out of the 33 MPs present that 33 voted unanimously. I'm finding an auditor's report and a report from our commission with proposals for measures taken. I'm going to try to formulate a second proposal, and it's brought here in the debate to ask for audits and other budget users for 2000. We've heard that it's ongoing, and as far as 2001 goes, all budget users end up with a year of calendar, because it's not possible with nine months, there are no technical options. Do we need to repeat the proposal? We don't need to. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Please, who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Please, this is a recommendation. This is Parliament's position on the revision. The audit is not subordinated to us, but we have the right to state our shallow position. And that's not controversial. Of course, it is necessary to vote on the position of the House of Representatives. I'm sorry, but we can't draw a conclusion from the disco without a vote. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's our political stance. The audit does not depend on us and why the revision should not be controlled by the Parliamentary Assembly. We are the ones who need to tell you gentlemen - carry out the audit control, first us and then the other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to set an example. Why not? I'm sorry. Let's move on. Ad.8. A report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Border Service in the period from 1 January to 30 June 2001 The report was sent to lawmakers on 8 August 2001. Does a representative of the State Border Service need an explanation? 51
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5064	We do, maybe he doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5065	Is there a need for an explanation for a representative of the State Border Service? Please, we have a dilemma now whether we can continue to consider the report if we feel we do not need the presence of a representative of the State Border Service. To consider the report, to adopt it if there is a majority, or simply, if you think MPs have questions to ask, then we have no others but to take them off the agenda. Here you go. We have two options. Here you go. Mr. Bilbija. We welcome Deputy Director of the Border Service, Mr. Vuković. Welcome. Here you go, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5066	Here's what changed the situation now. If people were going to turn around, I'd come back and say it afterwards, and if there's no need I'd say what I thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5067	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. I'd like a representative of the State Border Service, please. We have a question for you. Do you need an explanation to address the House of Representatives or do you want MPs to ask questions first, and then you have to participate in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5068	We agree that the entrenched ladies and gentlemen, to ask a question, if you have.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5069	We have a report written. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5070	Okay. Because the report's in a short time. Meanwhile, there has been a takeover of state, somewhere around 75% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's borders, so the situation has changed significantly. I would say a few sentences, even after this period of reporting. So the reporting period is also short and very little the State Border Service has taken over the territory. However, here you would now take the opportunity to pass on to all of us some of the things, i.e. discussions from the Council of Europe, on which I was on a study trip that the OSCE has made possible for us. A lot of importance has been given to illegal trafficking in women, and it has been shown to all the Member States of the Council of Europe to pay attention to this, because lately there has been increased trafficking in women, so at this point he would take advantage of it, although they are doing so once again as Parliament, i.e. as an MP, to point out this problem which is currently problematic in the world. And after that came these events in America, and therefore the State Border Service provided us with a plan of action that 52 will take after all these events. And I would add here that in a conversation with the representatives of the State Border Service, I have learned that they have received high-quality equipment that was a donation from Germany and this equipment has turned out well and would ask all those able and from Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries to assist in the work of the State Border Service in order to complete this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5071	Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5072	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen, I think at this point the importance of the State Border Service is great, especially given what has been happening lately regarding terrorism and their role in the fight against terrorism. We got here in this report, I think it's particularly interesting to discuss a little when it comes to preventing illegal border crossings. We have received a table view here where you can see it means that for the first 6 months in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are around 8,597 people left. Also recently, the airport in Tuzla has been mentioned very often, where the UN Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina reports. So it has been concrete that on August 5th, R Bosnia from Istanbul landed at Tuzla airport, with 118 passengers and that only 18 continued their journey to Sarajevo, and 100 remained in Tuzla. Also, according to the same report, somewhere between 24.7 and 3.8.287 passengers from Turkey also entered the airport, and that only 14. Here the question can be asked – when will the State Border Service take control of the Tuzla airport and others say bridge and other airports, the rest to say parts of the Bosnia and Herzegovina border, and in the end the question is why the company, R Bosnia, landed at the airport in Tuzla, if it is not controlled by the State Border Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5073	Who's answering for a word? They asked for answers at the end of the debate, so we'll respect the wishes of the gentlemen of the State Border Service. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5074	Ladies and gentlemen, the club I belong to is supported by the form and content of the State Border Service report, but I would just like to say this briefly that it would be good, but today we don't have representatives of the Council of Ministers here for a reason, I mean to suggest or give a suggestion. It would be good because of the UN Convention adopted in Palermo, and all with the aim of preventing organised crime that is growing, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is also interesting for them, it would be good to try to solve this issue in bilateral relations with neighbouring countries, because at the level of the Balkans also signed a declaration regarding human trafficking, smuggling, means cars and all that we have in the report. It would be good to try to fight organised crime that has no borders, and national states have their own legal system and have their borders and they are actually reluctant to fight organised crime, precisely because they have their own frameworks across countries, and there is no organised crime border. And that is why I stress these 53 bilateral relations in order to contain this negative sign of social phenomenon through the UN Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5075	Is anyone else answering for word? If I don't, I'd like to give a word to a representative of the State Border Service. Here you go, Mr. Vuković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5076	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in front of the State Border Service, we express our satisfaction, as well as our recognition that our report has found places and included in the agenda and that it is being debated at such a high house. I want to say that this is a very short period of work and the operational work of the State Border Service. You noticed that we have been working somewhere since early April, or working with 12 units, in order to take over 13th in Bijeljina at the end of July, thus rounding up to cover the state border of Bosnia and Herzegovina around 75% and 39 registered border crossings under the control of the State Border Service. We run activity in two directions. First on the implementation of this important DGS project, we say, and it must be the most important in Bosnia and Herzegovina right now, which means taking over all parts of the border to the extent that we are allowed by the material resources of the people and equipment. And secondly, that's what's been said. These are the operational results we have in fact in 3 months. You've evaluated, and you can figure out what we've done, what our priorities are, and so on. I don't want to say it again. I want to answer the question – when are we going to implement the project? It is our firm will and conclusion by September of next year that we will take over the border of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of the DGS. Second, as far as the airport is concerned, we will try to take over the airport in Banja Luka by the end of the year, and as far as Tuzle is concerned, we do not have any means or equipment, but we will find one way to form, I would say one out-of-the-way department of DGS as aid to the cantonal MUP in Tuzla and that, in the context of all of these activities that we have at the state level established in the fight against terrorism and all complex forms of crime, we will be present in Tuzla and not let anything surprise us, which could be really and very unpleasant, and also dangerous for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's the answer for us to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5077	Thank you, too. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go, Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5078	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, I know that we are all already at a loss of strength and tiredness, but I cannot say a few findings and ask one question. I think that in this time without any arguments, very much points to Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country that is some kind of exhibit of some kind of negative 54 phenomenon. That's why this agenda point is of great importance to me. I'm just gonna set up something that doesn't make sense to me. As far as I know, this country has about 430 border crossings as large as possible. You said we control 70% and now we have 39 under border control. You also said that you hoped that by September next year we would have complete control of the border service. I'm interested in whether with 39 border crossings it will be under control all 430 by September next year, or whether it will remain wild crossings as long as it wants. The problem is, gentlemen here pointed out that people are coming to Bosnia and Herzegovina and they're losing track of them. It is not the specifics of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The world's most developed countries have problems with it, and don't make Bosnia a boogeyman. I'm interested in how many Kinez live in Bosnia and Herzegovina today and how they got visas. Where they come from, they don't come by plane. I want to talk about a complete problem here. I am not because the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are still seen as being limited by travel abroad, to shut down all the countries with which we have a visa-free regime, I am not because, but because these opportunities are expanding and opening up to us, but I am so that there is really control, complete control of the entire borders, the whole state. And one more thing, precisely because of what I said at the beginning, I think that the Border Service and the Council of Ministers, as you will, and this Parliament, if it should urinate with the international community to speed up the formation of a complete border service, not to September next year, but gentlemen to get us off the world's pages, because I claim to be unjustly accusing us, unjustly accusing us of doing so, I'm not going to elaborate here for long now, for why they accuse us, because there are many other problems here, and a lot of other things. I'm not going to sharpen the situation, I'm not going to present the facts, I can present them, but I can suggest that behind this proposal that the border service works faster throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and that there should be gentlemen from the border service, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, and, if necessary, this house will surely support it. That's my suggestion. Is there anything that can be done about this matter with international officials from Petrič that we continue to function fully here as soon as possible? And the whole Alliance to stand behind it would be very pleased to see you, Mr. Bogićević. Thank you. I'm like an opposition already because I suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5079	Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5080	Ladies and gentlemen, if you remember, I initiated the search for this report. I am interested in why representatives, or the State Border Service, did not create a map of the coverage of the territory, or the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it is covered, not that we speak 39 border crossings and 75% borders, but that we know which area it is and possibly that, to get an assessment from the State Border Service as far as black immigrants entered Bosnia and Herzegovina and where they enter. There's one piece of information here that's 454 people that the Border Service discovered. However, I am responsible for saying that it is much, much more in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the daily newspaper and others are saying that it is entering Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the borders are pornic. 55 And another thing there seems to me to be the specifications of goods that were tried to get into Bosnia and Herzegovina without customs control and everything else. Rob, I'm talking about broad consumption and food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5081	Are there any other MPs who want to ask questions to representatives of the State Border Service? If not, I would like to conclude the debate with the fact that, please, to finish the debate, only to give Mr. Vuković to answer, to the representative of the State Border Service, to answer the questions asked. Here you go, Mr. Vuković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5082	We are pleased to hear that we really have the support to speed up the implementation of the project. It's not up to us. We need resources and equipment. And we can cut deadlines without September next year. That's officially what I'm saying here. That's one thing. Secondly, it is true that 426 have so far been border crossings that could have entered this country. Please, but when we take the border, we don't take the border crossings, we take the border line and the liability zone, and we control everything in that zone. And as I mentioned 39, these are categorized ones that we have already managed to agree with neighbouring countries, Croatia and part of Yugoslavia and representatives of the international community, they are international and interstate. We have this meaning of this more local and therefore, this one I just mentioned here 39 international and interstate, we have local, we just have parts of the border next to each house is the way and can be entered by a boot and a small car, etc. But in relation to the border control so far, I ask you that the interior departments have controlled only at these border crossings. No, we control the area of responsibility in the depth of 10km and the border line of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and now international and interstate, we have 39 border crossings where goods, passengers, etc. It's a question I'm still not talking about. So it's not up to us, we need resources, we need equipment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5083	Thank you very much. I suggest we approach the vote. We have before us a report on the work of the BiH State Border Service in the period from January 1st to June 30th 2001. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in favor of accepting the report? Who's against it? Who's restrained? It's obviously unanimous just to hear the number. Of the 32 MPs present, 32 voted in favour - unanimously. Obviously, he doesn't need an entity vote. Thank you very much. Congratulations, as Mr. Bogić said to the heads of the State Border Service to make them even more effective, let's hope so. 56 We move to point 9. Ad.9. The report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2000 was submitted on the basis of article 64. The Central Bank Act. The MPs were forwarded on July 18th 2001. The financial and budgetary committee's report was sent to lawmakers on 13 September 2001. At the beginning of the debate, I would ask the question – does the Central Bank's representative need to speak at the beginning, or does he want to hear questions and then turn later? Here you go. Mr. Vice Governor Kovačević Dragan, if I'm well informed. Thank you, Mr. Vice Governor Kovačević. Mr Kovačević, acting as Members or Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5084	Both.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5085	Okay. So two characters in one person. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5086	As chairperson of the current Commission, I believe, and thus the Commission believes that this report can be accepted in addition to these findings. I'm just going to say two of those that are positive, that foreign exchange reserves have grown from 865 million to a billion and forty-four million and that new payments have been introduced in commercial banks. However, I would like to address one of three questions regardless of what it is, but I will be very brief. My first point of view is that we have a very weak banking sector, that it's one of the weakest sectors in our entire business system, that our banks are on the sea, that the banking system has failed to resuscitate, and in particular that it has failed to privatise itself. It is very slow privatisation of banks, completely non-transparent and takes place in a way that existing large state banks, commercial banks, etc. that they barely live or are before the winding-up procedure. In addition to such a weak banking sector, the Central Bank, acting under the Karensibord conditions, would not be able to stimulate production, stimulate exports, stimulate agricultural production, etc. The question arises, these rules of Karensiboard have been introduced so far in the world in some 80 countries of the world and over time have lasted 4-5-7 years and have been abandoned. Central banks should take over from those taking place in all modern countries of the market economy. Therefore, our central bank should also go towards trends in modern banking and take over the role of the central bank, although it could be a rule for Karensibord to be 50 years without the Bundest Bank, the Bankov..., the Federal Reserve, etc. In addition to these reserves, I believe it is necessary to strengthen the deposit protection institution, all security deposits, and there is an example of how deposit protection is carried out, especially small savings from 5-10 thousand 15 thousand marks or 10 thousand EUR, 5,000 etc. They have systems to restore trust in banks and invest in deposits in banks must invent a deposit protection system. 57 The third would ask a little professionally, but it is not – in the terms of Karensiboard relations 1:1 of the German mark and this happens to e.g. In Republika Srpska, inflation last year was 16.3. As inflation arises under the terms of Karensiboard, because the ratio is 1:1 parity and should be without inflation. I know the answer, but I'm setting up for others to explain how, so I'm not giving the answer. Thank you very much, and I suggest that the report is adopted along with these remarks by the Central Bank, because under the terms of Karensiboard, she could not do anything else, because her hands are tied and she just follows the convergence of the currency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5087	Thank you, Mr. Kovačević. Mr. Željko Bilbija answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5088	I would ask one question to the Central Bank representative, and if he is unable to answer now, he will deliver to us in writing what was done in that field later. The decision by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger of BiH" number 9/1998 points 2 and 3 of the first tranche of the Stendbaj arrangement, which amounted to SDR 24 million 240 000 evalents in KM 58 million of credit funds, is set to transfer Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Banks of 29 million KM and 25 million as initial capital and 4 million KM to help pay costs related to the establishment of major units and branches. The decision defined the entity's obligation to service the debt on this basis in relation to 2/3 of the Federation of BiH and 1/3 of Republika Srpska, while the same decision did not define the rights and claims of entities for the funds allocated to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank. It is not defined whether the funds have been allocated to the Central Bank on a credit basis or are irrevocable. This is where we ask that these relationships be defined and regulated to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5089	If no one is answering for a word, Mr. Kovačević Dragan Vice Governor would ask to speak to the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5090	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs allow me above all to convey to you the greetings of Mr. Governor who apologizes for not being able to attend this session because he is officially absent from the country and in particular to convey all the gratitude for the support the Central Bank has had in the current period and from this home as a whole from the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other institutions at the state level, of course, the authorities. In short, let me try to answer what's being asked here as a question. As for the weak banking system, it is essentially not as strong, but it is now much better than it was at the beginning of its formation, especially at the beginning of the formation of banking agencies in both entities. I will visit that we already have several very significant strong banks with foreign equity participation, that domestic banks are now in particular some in a situation where they have good liquidity, that they have a mandatory 58 reserves and above what the law requires. Unfortunately, the overall process of transition, especially in the banking system, is very slow about privatisation. We hope that by the end of the year when the last deadlines are set we hope that the process will be completed and I would like to inform you that it is in line with the IMF's recommendations that activities are under way in the unification of banking agencies, so the supervision of banks under the Central Bank's umbrella. Of course, this will be a new challenge for the Central Bank and, in any case, a huge responsibility to build an even stronger banking system in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the context of existing legal solutions and new ones that we hope will be adopted and accepted. As for the Karensiboard arrangement, therefore, he was defined by the Central Bank Act for the first six years of the Central Bank's operation. We have two years left in that arrangement, but the law doesn't say it will and is not said to stop the Karensibord arrangement then. So, in front of this parliament, before the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it will be possible to declare changes to the laws and to the Central Bank, but I would just like to say that many facts and, of course, large analyses of what monetary system to have and keep are important. I will just visit that we do not yet have a self-sustainable economy and that in the situation where we have all the imports covered by exports, having a structured or some other course would be very, very risky and not to go further into the debate, I think that as far as this arrangement is concerned, the overall economic power of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be decided by the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, now it's under the current law, I think the Central Bank function is fully realized, the monetary system that is set out in that law and what is ultimately the Commission's proposal on this report is talking about. As far as depositary protection is concerned, we have deposit insurance agencies. You could have noticed yesterday that two new banks joined the Deposit Insurance Agency in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in that sense, they entered the audit and we hope that in this regard they will contribute further to the provision of deposits, and in particular smaller savings. As inflation occurs in Karensibord, let inflation not, the cause of inflation is not only in the monetary sphere. We also have so-called cost inflation, and I think that Kovačević spoke of other sources of inflation, so it is possible that we have inflation, and it is mostly kept at a very low level at a level which is already around 2-3%, which is ultimately inflation and in all developed countries. Of course, we have inflation by the fact that the German mark in Germany has inflation, so we have more causes and that is, of course, an interesting question and also a professional debate. As far as the funds received from the World Bank of the IMF totalling 29 million, what the fellow MP has asked as a question -- it is all that this home has concluded is true. That part of the funds is in our free reserves. I'll remind you that we've increased the free reserves to 48 million, so we're going at 25 million, at the end of last year they were 48, now they're 66 million. Therefore, the arrangement between the Central Bank and the institutions of the government with regard to the return of funds will be offered. I think that in this sense written information can be given to this home and that according to the arrangements that will result, of course, it is. So here's the shortest, shortest time in terms of what's being asked as a question. I'm ready, of course, if there's a need to further 59 explain what's already been asked or any new question, so here you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5091	Thank you, Mr. Kovačević. If there are no participants in the further debate, I would put the Central Bank of BiH's 2001 report on the vote. Who's in favor of accepting the report? Who's against it? Who's abstentioned? I can come to a unanimous conclusion, and I'd like to ask them for an exact number. We can't count on Mr. Titan, he wasn't in the O.R. Of the 26 MPs present, therefore we have a quorum 26 voted in favour. There's no need for an entity vote. I find the Central Bank's 2000-year report was accepted. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. Information on the organisation and staff situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ministry of Foreign Affairs diplomatic and consular network Information was sent to lawmakers on 17 May this year. Does the applicant's representative want to address the House? The Deputy Minister was here until recently, I saw him. He's been waiting all day. Whether or not we have written information, information is not voted on, so I don't think we can get answers, but there is always an opportunity for MPs to ask that item to be included in the agenda of the Assembly and we will be included. We will also have a request, we have a request from the Commission for Foreign Affairs, it is our commission to hold a meeting or a special session, we will see a debate on foreign policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's waiting for us soon wouldn't be a problem if we didn't, I don't think we'd take this point off and just accept this information and move on. Here you are, Mr Amidžić, President of the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5092	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I am joining this first idea to accept the final information. Are we tired enough to lead the debate on it, but I have the need as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission to say something perhaps not too much and beyond about these issues for a few reasons, first of all, that this is the first time that one of the materials is, that is, one of the issues in the field of foreign policy is on the agenda of the House in this term. Secondly, there is no Mr. Bjelobrk, he is quite an active member of the Commission, but I am fed up with this activity when it comes to the work of the Commission, so it is a pity to supplement me and to help me. Otherwise, we're as good as colleagues and associates on this committee. The third Commission, i.e. the information, is already 5 months old. However, as a previous question, I want to highlight a few things. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Avdić, who attended a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission, and I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and some of the people of the Ministry of European Integration for providing us with help in our work. But I want to say what, what problems the Commission has and what initiatives it has come up with. Number one. Let me just quote the paragraph of Article 37 of our Rules of Procedure. The Foreign Affairs Committee monitors the implementation of foreign policy by the presidency, the vijeć of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then goes on... Members of this committee, MPs in this House see the Commission as a very broad domain, and they seek the full role of the Commission and Parliament in this area. First of all, they seek some form of parliamentary control and mutual information between the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the ministry and parliamentarians. This is a key question on which the Commission insists that we have twice addressed the House College to put the issue of foreign policy on the agenda. The Commission is asking it to be one of the sessions as soon as possible, and today we have sent again a memo on what might be the basis for the debate. There are some 5-6 documents there, etc. Why? Because we do not define procedures for representing Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad. And you know how many of our delegations go, etc. Second, the Commission insists on a platform for each departure and on a report on activities when presenting the country abroad. And what is a key problem is a insufficient or non-existent system of information flow between foreign policy entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and within Parliament. We don't know what, how, when, who, or the MPs have very little data from this area. These are some of these, these previous issues that I stress and why I ask the College to consider this memo and put it on the agenda, and at least those global foreign policy objectives and to discuss it. Please, now dissipate. The Commission, at the very least, adopted a conclusion four months ago to propose to Parliament to accept this information. How current she is now is the second question. However, the problems of the diplomatic consular network – says the personnel situation, the network should be adjusted to the country's opportunities and needs. Who's supposed to be having a wide discussion about this? It's not a matter of fatigue, gentlemen. I'm sorry. You can listen to me, but you don't have to, but these are serious questions. The theme is the personnel situation. It involves not only the number of people in individual destinations, but also the profile, but also the name and last name, etc.itd. Now a quick and quick question – who today represents Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad? Who are the new frames you're in foreign policy? If we need explanations of certain problems and small scandals, an example of Vienna or Malaysia. The public is talking about nepotism a little bit in new solutions, etc. These questions are too serious to give me a quick answer from them, but I think we should give them to Parliament. Next, fourth and final. The Commission is seeking at least two performances by every Bosnia and Herzegovina ambassador to parliamentarians when he comes to a country and when he returns, or at least once a year to address someone in Parliament about his work and problems and function in general the need of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area. We have so far had no one to intend to understand this request from the Commission. Finally, the Commission requests the full communication of every ambassador to parliamentarians in the country of destination. In fact, there is a phenomenon that the protocol should be upgraded diplomaticly and as an obligation for the ambassador to ask that whenever an official visit to any issue of a state comes from parliamentarians for the dignity of the state, diplomacy, for the sake of the host and the work to be done there, the ambassador should dà elevate that parliamentary 61 delegation. Some MPs in this parliament say they were in delegations without ambassadors in these visits, in these contacts, in this assistance, etc. I don't have that experience. Thank you for your patience. I am concluding with the Commission's request that foreign policy issues, foreign affairs be placed on Parliament's agenda, without any effort or problem, without mutual criticism and attacks, but that we try to maximise this area of social life and Parliament's maximum impact on this sphere. It feels like the Presidency or one of the people who goes outside doesn't feel their debt to Parliament, or they don't understand that they have it. I say again these leaders in both Parliament and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed their readiness to agree on certain issues, but this is very current, and I think that we can address these issues, agree, build up these structures, information, information flow structures and responsibility for this area with one session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5093	Ambassador Mehtić Halil.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5094	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, the information that is the subject of our attention was delivered to us four or five months ago. Given the data it offers and the content, it is, in my opinion, for today's debate or plea, somewhat deplaced. From that time to today, very important things have happened on this plan, because we know that in the past few months, a debate has been held on who will represent Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad as diplomats. We know these days named 33 ambassadors. Given that some unscrupulous solutions have been observed in the process of their appointments in my court, I would ask if the College is able, or if it has precise information to tell us how many parties are represented in diplomatic consular offices. The information we had at our disposal offered only national representation, the number of embassies in the world etc.itd. However, party representation has not been mentioned, and it is particularly important to me that any party has given its candidates at the current diplomatic consular offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5095	Mr. Mariofil Ljubić,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5096	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, this information was received in Parliament on 11.5 this year, I think it is absurd to discuss it now, and it is especially to adopt it. The most we can do is let her know because she's not even current anymore. I think about it, about one piece of information, but more and more needs to be discussed when we talk about foreign policy, about the objectives of foreign policy and the achievement of foreign policy. Then there will be the agenda and these issues that are current and these days around Bosnia and Herzegovina, what is the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is represented by Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when we're given this kind of table view, I think it should be supported, I mean by names, whether the references of certain people, but certainly the people of the rank diplomat should be listed with 62 names and last names that we know who it's about. I'm saying, I don't see that you could vote on adopting this information. I mean, we can take her into knowledge, and then put in charge of the Council of Ministers, and we can take on ourselves, figure out how we're going to lead, how we're going to prepare that point on the foreign policy objectives, and also about the conduct of foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5097	Mr. Osman Brka. Okay. If anyone else wants to participate in the discussion, if not then we would bring this point to an end and preparations are under way for a debate on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy at this home, according to the Commission's request for foreign affairs, and we will put it on the agenda according to the agreement of the Extended College of Representatives. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. You know, Mr. Mijatović, don't be nervous, thank you very much, a little patience, that we have vacant seats in three commissions. We asked the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina MPs' club to make a proposal. We have received a proposal and I will read – that at the vacancy of the House of Representatives' Commission for Members: Ms Emina Začiragić at the Commission for Finance and Budgets, Mr Franjo Majdandžić is elected to the Administrative Commission and that Ms Emina Začiragić is appointed a member of the Joint Commission of the House of Representatives and House of Peoples for the achievement of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act. Is there a discussion? I'm putting a motion to vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I agree with 32 MPs – 32 voted in favour. Obviously, there's no need for an entity vote. Moving to point 12. Ad.12. Giving consent to ratification: (a) The Second Amendment to the Grant Agreement for the US-BiH Programme for the Reintegration and Stabilisation Programme, (b) The seventh Amendment to the Agreement on Grants between BiH and the United States on a Programme for Financing and Reconstruction called the Programme for Business Development The amendments to the Agreements were sent to Members on 30 August 2001. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Kovačević. Here you go. As President of the Commission, I suppose. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5098	We've been considering Amendment 2. Ladies and gentlemen, you stayed, you had patience, and today he was very constructive, according to my assessment of work and very patient. On behalf of the Finance Commission and the Budget of Amendment 2 we accepted from the first. The second amendment was sent back to some explanations to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. That's us. This Seventh Amadnam. However, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not come forward and has not come to the Commission's meeting, but we have accepted that we consider it so that we do not stop this amendment to propose to Parliament, although in the future we will remove it, it will not come through Parliament. And now we've found one of those two illogicalities in that amendment. One is where sugar production is excluded, and in us, for example. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we produce sugar tail and possibly, may need to borrow sugar beet production and other things there in one spot, we found where they say they are exempt, to mention something about the forest, tropical forests. I, however, wanted to get it out of that contract, because there are no tropical forests in us. Because it's probably some type of contract for all the countries of the world. Two have therefore found themselves, and that is no reason not to adopt that amendment, but if it is possible in the technical achievement of this Treaty and two to include sugar and to delete those tropical forests from our contract. The jungle, yeah. The jungles, only the Peručica, but I don't know if the tropical forests are written there.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5099	You don't know your geography.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5100	I mean, I don't know that. I'm grateful there's a geographer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5101	Just one more question. You mentioned problems with sugar and rain forest. Does this apply to the Second Amendment or to the Seventh Amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5102	On the 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5103	So there are problems in the text of the seventh amendment. Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5104	The Foreign Affairs Commission discussed the amendments and concluded that these terms should be adopted. However, there have been some problems that I would have had here briefly, I know we're all tired, but there are some things I'm going to have to say. As far as the second amendment is concerned, he has good and bad things. Among other things, the agreement on a grant between BiH and the United States for the reintegration and stabilisation of the community signed on 11.6.2000 without the opinion and participation of Republika Srpska entities. The second amendment to that grant agreement was signed in Sarajevo on 11.6.2001 without the opinion and participation of Republika Srpska, although it was already in force, the 64-proceeding procedure for the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, ‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, number 29/00 since 30.11.2000, which requires the entity to deliver an opinion on the above amendment. No agreement was given to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which would make it clearer to see the purpose and purpose of the already approved grant, and to date obtaining the requested information. We found out off the record that the grant was meant to take care of refugees, which is good. The text of the Second Amendment shows that the amount of grenades is increasing by US dollars twenty-nine million threest thousand and five hundred twelve, which in any case is not controversial since it is a grant for Bosnia and Herzegovina. But Article 3 states that the amendment has been prepared in English and Bosnian, and the use of the term Bosnian language is only a term Bosnian language is not acceptable for the Republic of Serbia, so it points to these and good and bad things regarding this amendment and the attitude is that we can accept it. However, if I don't put a lot of pressure on you with this amendment, the 7th position of the Club is that today it is removed from the adoption agenda, until we get answers in writing at the next session on some of the issues, which is to say in section 4.2 on page 5, which is unacceptable, is the possibility that JUSEID can ask BiH and Republika Srpska to return all or all of the grants to the US government in which Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska did not participate. Therefore, whether it would require some clarifications and then adopt it at the next session if you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-09-0.u5105	Thank you very much. We obviously do. Is anyone else answering for word? So we have two documents. There were no objections about the second amendment. About the seventh amendment, we have objections to the translation of the text, I think. We have questions asked, but there is no one from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to answer. Yeah. Please. Mr Kovačević, you have just set an example of sugar cane and tropical forests and you have signed the report and we have heard you. So, please, I suggest we approach the vote on the second amendment, for the seventh amendment there is a reserve. Should we vote on him today, or should we leave him for the next session and hear the explanation? Please. Please, I vote, not in the package you can't vote, because those are two documents please. Not poor, but two. He's deluding the second amendment and the seventh. Not the second and seventh is not the same document, but two documents. So I put the second amendment to the grant agreement for the US-BiH programme for the reintegration and stabilisation of the community. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Of the 32 patient MPs all 32 voted yes. Therefore, the Second Amendment was adopted. 65 We have an amendment to the seventh amendment to the BiH-US grant agreement on a funding and reconstruction programme called the Business Development Programme. I'm putting the seventh amendment to the vote. Who's in? ... Excuse me. [[no microphone turned on immediately]] Just a little bit, please. I made a mistake in the procedure. Please have, we'll see how it goes. Who's in? Count it right, there'll be problems here- who's against it? Who's being held back? Please. I beg you, I beg the MPs for a little more patience, we are all very tired, but let's get this job done. Thank you. I'd like some information, please. Please, I need an entity vote. 32 Present – 26 for, versus 1, abstention 7. I'd like an entity vote. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in favour of MPs from Republika Srpska? Let's go, Kovačević. Please. I'm asking for a result. Write it down, please. I must admit that Mr. Kovačević has confused the service and that's why we're waiting. May I have your attention, please? The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 21st, Republika Srpska 3 for. The accordion, not even the voice of Mr Kovačević, who was abstention, was helpful. Gentlemen, I realize Amendment One has passed, Amendment 7 has not. Right? It's a match. Thank you very much. Gentlemen, may I have your attention, gentlemen of the Parliament, our honored guests, we have exhausted the agenda of the 14th session of the House of Representatives. I thank you all for your patience and active participation in the work of the House. I'm closing the 14th session. The session was completed at 7.45 p.m.
