ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4602	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 12th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, the meeting was called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Council of Europe's Secretary-General, the representative of the EU's Mission to BiH, and representatives of the BiH Embassy, representatives of other international organisations in BiH. Representatives of public information funds were also invited to monitor the session's work media. I warmly welcome you all and finally, I have the special honour and pleasure to welcome today at the House of Representatives session of Mr Ralf Džonston Lord Rasel, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is present today's session. We also have to hear the address of Lord Rasel, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, our first step towards European integration, along with normal, basic preconditions that should meet both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, is about electoral law. In this context, here is the previous question of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, to be addressed by Lord Rasel.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4603	Mr. Chairman, yesterday while I was opening the Biennials, the Biennale ceremony, I was quoting a famous artist. The artist said: “Without fear and sickness, I would never achieve all this that I have accomplished. ” It was a Norvežanin Edvard N. who painted a famous painting of Vrisak. On the one hand, this statement represents a very sad view of the nature of life. The fact that, most often, pain and misfortune are in us, the capacity and genius that sleeps and unproductively rests in quieter and happier times. On the other hand, these words describe the way the human spirit triumphs over repression and degradation and draws from the shadows the attitudes and ideas of light, which lead to a beautiful and clean future. Last Wednesday I was in Srebrenica. Women cried for those who were lost forever. It's still in her insinuation that it couldn't happen, that it really happened and that it couldn't be corrected. On Monday, I had one morning of a silent horror in High in the company of a young Polish lady, who led me from one group to another, explaining the difficulties of reconstructing skeletontons and identifying bones. She told me: “Yes, the victims, at least twice, were shot at to stop their escape, so either in the back or in the leg, and only then in the head to kill them. The first shot, otherwise, made it impossible to hurt the spinal bone so that 2 could not move, and then when only the bones that mix are left over in time, then it becomes very complicated.” She told me everything like this. She spoke very openly about it, very simply about it. But through all that, I could still feel her compassion and her grief for these victims. It wasn't all the same to me when one of the words that contained the body was open to me to see what was inside, and then I had one moment of complete horror and disgust while we stopped surrounded by the work of this decomposition. I thought, Bog, these are people like me, these are people like my friends. They laughed, they played football, they enjoyed a good chess move, they made love and they sang songs at sunset. I'm a stranger. I've visited BiH several times in this tormented decade, but I'm a stranger. I'm not from here. I don't know all your history and some parts I don't think I understand. I'm a Evropljanin. I am a European full of ideals that are slowly finding a way into this continent of tears that we are putting together to decompose and devote ourselves to them together. I'm committed to these ideas. I want these ideas to live here, and that's why I want you in the European family, and I want you in the Council of Europe. I'm a friend. I believe that the Council of Europe is one factor that stabilizes Europe. I think the Parliamentary Assembly has a special value in it. I believe that there is this special value because it is a single body that is leading democracy, leading not only to the preservation of ideals and values that I've talked about before, but wants to expand them. In particular, he wants to guarantee minority rights and guarantee their equality. This country should look forward to its diversity, Biennale gave that message. Ibrahim Spahić took me on a tour and showed me the Serbian orthodox church, showed me the synagogue, showed me Beg's mosque and the Catholic cathedral. All of these facilities were completely open, open to public access and each was just a few steps away from the other. The tolerance that has long been a feature of Sarajevo is being reborn. But to build a state, you need more than tolerance and you need co-operation, you need co-operation, not careful co-operation, but active co-operation. You need to build a country where the differences are a matter of pride. They are neither a handicap nor a special helper, a country where a citizen is king. A country where a citizen, regardless of where he comes from, which is his historical line that brings him where, this citizen has the same chance of finding a job the same chance of prosperity both in Banja Luka and on both sides of Mostar and Tuzla, but that's also going to happen. As soon as it happens, it's very hard to say. It will only happen through consensus and only within the framework of the law. Partisans need this movement. Let me turn only one moment now to the question of the electoral law, which seems to have become at the same time, became at the same time, means the door to the Council of Evorpa and the obstacle on its way to the Council of Europe. Dejton brought peace to this country, but at one price, and that price is, it's very hard to change anything in Dayton. In the struggle to logically approach your very strange Ustv, our last rapporteur Mr. Lazlo Šurijan of Hungary who is a very good and competent man, in his talks with our political committee has chosen as a prerequisite for the adoption of an electoral law, which would be a sign that this country is sticking together and also demonstrated one capacity for reform in other things. If your Constitutional Court had made its glorious decision, perhaps three weeks earlier, than it did before the Council of Europe took this position, then perhaps our preconditions would have been different. I can't say right now. The fact is, we're where we are now. Let me be honest. Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin have all made it very clear and said again and again that they want to see this country as a member of the Council of Europe and that 3 are aware of the fact that this means joining a legal and political body, which offers everyone equal protection. Speaking personally, I completely understand and agree with the desire that the P2 form should be changed. But the fact remains that by rejecting this electoral law, you wouldn't actually improve the rights of your citizens right now. All that would do so would delay the entry into the Council of Europe, which would, of course, delay the access of your citizens to the Strasbourg court and would also delay the implementation of the Convention on Human Rights and would also prevent access to the Venice Commission, which is one recognised body, one recognised and effective body working on legal constitutional and legal changes. That's the situation. I'm asking you to look at things in a big way. Come with us and let us deal with these issues together. The great English poet and songwriter Šekspir wrote in one of his plays, roughly translated, there is a time in the lives of people who, when we allow him to carry us, leads to wealth, when that time is in this beautiful little country. It's not the time to forget or stop looking for justice, but it's time to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4604	I thank Lord Rasel Džonson, President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with the conviction that BiH is deeply aware of the need to join the Council of Europe, we need the Council of Europe, so should the Council of BiH and, in that sense, certain that this is a common goal and is expected to reach a minimum of political consensus and adoption in the next month, to consider and adopt an electoral law, which is a fundamental predicate to BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. It will be the first significant, radical step and step towards European integration. We thank Lord Rasel deeply. He has always been a proven friend of BiH and always on the side of both the citizens and the peoples of BiH, and in that sense, surely we owe a lot to his friendly, correct, human relationship with the state of BiH, thank him once again for talking to Parliament today, the Parliamentary House of BiH. Thank you again very much. A five-minute break. I agree that the House of Representatives session is present today with 40 MPs. [[PAUZA]] The session was announced by Mr Amor Mašović and Mr Halil Mehtić. Also announced was MP Ljubomir Kovačević, along with MPs Mašović and Mehtić. We're glad he's here today. Congratulations to another doctor on the sciences of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. For today's session, gentlemen, you've received a draft agenda. Just before the beginning of this session, we held a session of the Extended College to prepare this session and analyse the proposed agenda. The extended college remained at the proposed agenda after further consideration, with the fact that there was a suggestion to remove point 7. The report on the annual accounts audited for 2000, three ministries as part of the agenda, for the reason that the Finance and Budget Commission did not fully complete its work for justified reasons, respect for one new procedure, auditors' checks, uniform reports, based on reports received from an independent institution operating 4 within BiH, means auditor as the BiH institution. In that context, we felt that the report could not be changed. It remains as it is, and in this context as information we had predicted it to be present on today’s agenda, for this reason the agenda would have the following form: 1. The adoption of the minutes from 11th session of House of Representatives 2. Constitution of the Council of Ministers (a) the approval and appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers b) the approval of the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers 3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on amendments to the Amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH; 4. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport – first reading 5. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2000; 6. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January-March 2001, with an assessment of the situation for January-May 20001; 7. Report on annual accounts audited for 2000 (a) Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, (b) Ministry of Foreign Affairs, (c) Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 8. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement establishing an interstate council for co-operation between BiH and the SRJ, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation and protection against natural and civilization disasters, in order to give consent to ratification, 9. MPs' questions and answers. As you have noticed at point 8. we have made a permutation since it is an interstate contract between BiH and the SRJ and in this context only permutation of points and b. Please, open the debate in the agenda. The chairman of the Finance Commission and Budžet, MP Nedžad Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4605	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance, I am calling for this item to be removed from the agenda. I'll try to explain a little bit. The Commission cannot decide whether or not to consider the report of the audit office directly. He may decide to do so, but without a report from the Finance Commission and a budget on it. The Commission's report implies a prior implementation of the procedure including a series of feedback with the Office for Auditing and Audited Ministrys to obtain additional information and a more complete picture to allow for the definition of which more objective recommendations are made to Parliament to decide on the launch of concrete measures and activities to eliminate and sanction registered irregularities. 5 The agenda of the session was set at 11.7, and the Commission was not consulted at all, although it was obvious that the Commission had been working several times and several times to determine the process of analysis of the audit reports expected. It is not clear why such a serious and systematic approach by the Commission is being ignored in the preparation of the Commission's report on audit reports. All the reverse report was delivered to Parliament several days before they were put on the agenda of the House's session. In Europe, the criterion is that the parliamentary procedure on the audit reports takes practically as long as the procedures themselves make up the audit report. Just to inform you that the Commission has been working constantly for a month and the Commission is one and the other Commission and the Parliamentary House Commission and the same committee of the House of Peoples have also agreed in agreements and in education practically and seminar carried out by the Commission with the representative and vice-president of the Parliament Assembly of Norway and the chairman of the same committee, and they are gentlemen declared superexperts in carrying out these audits. You need to understand that this is a historical audit report, this has never been the way the Commission has tried to make European standards in solving these cases. We will not achieve anything by discussing this report today, not in September. This is the 2000-year report, gentlemen, and here's your call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4606	I thank the President of the Commission. I am also obliged, an OSC delegation that monitors and helps train Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, has also repeated most of the words in writing as well as the president of the Commission. The OSC delegation also means to introduce a new procedure, a new system of auditors of Bosnia and Herzegovina's business audit reports, and in this context it is quite logical and to the greatest extent justified request by the Finance and Budget Commission, which would give a comprehensive report together with an audit report that would be sufficient to base the discussion at the House of Representatives. But we still decided to make the House known about this request to take point 7 off today's agenda. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4607	Dear gentlemen, MPs, esteemed guests, members of the Presidency, as well as usually a lot of things incomprehensible, not because of language, but because of the proceedings, it happens here in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A competently designed expert commission report, people of knowledge need to be verified in terms of expertise. I suppose it would be more logical for the Commission of Parliament to pass on the report to Parliament, that there was a discussion on this matter, that all the ambiguities were recorded and further explanations requested from those who made the report. There's obviously something else in the background. I understand that, too. In the end, I don't judge it. I consider it your wish, but I don't give you the right. I'm not giving it up for the facts, gentlemen, not for my own good. In front of us on the agenda, I guess in line with the Kolegijum in the narrow line when you formed it, there is a report from three key ministries. One of them with the largest budget in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the other with the largest range of jobs and the third with economic power, i.e. the assumed economic power, because this would first not fit the reality. And then six you're looking for reasons. Understandably, you're looking for an alliance, but it's confusing to me how some international institutions are looking for them, because gentlemen while you're building a system, people tend to crime have their own system and are also working on a system. When we gentlemen look the truth in the eye, call the name of every single person who did an illicit shop and sanction that store. To sanction it becomes a rule, not an exception. It's obviously not here. That is how it burdens me, that in Parliament as the highest legislative body, the body that should deal with the problems of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the interests of citizens, because we have been elected by their votes. Therefore, parliament has no will to move on in a qualitative sense to move on. So on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party's Club, we insist that the report remain as it is proposed, and there is time and space for everything heard here as a dilemma to become the content of the Commission's work and prepare additional information that would be useful to all of us, I hope, for the people who have chosen us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4608	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4609	In some of my references to which I hold that at least for a decent number of me dear people is relevant is one of them and if I were six years an MP would opposition. And I can understand my fellow Banjac as an opposition with this kind of... because the opposition usually responds to general debates about everything and everything, and even speculation. I assure you, Mr Banjac, and I assure the SDS Club that all the facts announced by the President of the Commission here have been agreed between the members of the various parties from the Parliamentary Assembly and that there are no other backgrounds. I'll remind you, because you have those reports in front of you. In each of these reports you have at least 15 very large sightings of the Office of Audition and the other in working with Mr Sven Ludvisken, a man has some 15 years of life experience in this matter. For standard cases in each European Parliament, you have a parliamentary process of order for 30 days. Standard. I may be able to understand you with you whether you have run some of the procedures already within the framework of the work of the Office of Auditing within the ministries, but however, one thing I can agree with you, this matter and these reports absolutely deserve to be discussed at Parliament. I will now ask you to follow your good knowledge of the Rules of Procedure and leave it to the Commission to make a fair preparation and, of course, we will debate then, because we all have to debate. I therefore once again support the proposal of Parliamentarian Šešivarević, President of the Commission for Budget and Finance, to allow the Commission, by standard procedures, to complete this work and then to have, I assure you, very extensive debates on these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4610	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Replica Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4611	Dear MP, whether there are political backgrounds in your search for a dot or not, we will see. I can accept the initial position that you're right. We'll see that right in action. 7 Second, when it comes to the work of the Commission, how do you know what the messengers will be interested in, or what is not clear to us. I don't understand you, because you know in advance what we don't understand and what we want to ask. I just thought the order of the move was supposed to be the other way around, and I don't think the Commission should be relieved of jurisdiction, God forbid. The Commission has its place and role in Parliament, and in this case I am not quite sure that its place is reported, but intermediate between Parliament and the Commission for Audit.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4612	Thank you. Ambassador Bilbija asked for a word. I apologize, Ambassador Grabovac. A moment of Bilbi replica Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4613	First, Mr Banjac, you just said there is, that the Commission is between Parliament and the report that it should help Parliament with its report. The other thing is, in the previous discussion, you said someone was protecting someone. Sir, this commission doesn't have a mandate to lock someone up or get someone out of jail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4614	Thank you. Ambassador Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4615	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, we suggest that on behalf of the Club we leave the time to the Commission, because you know here at the last session when I mentioned that in the Norwegian Parliament three times the law is read, so there are three readings that have time to do what is right, I mean, the Club remains with my idea of leaving the Commission time, because the Commission, or Parliament, cannot change this report. He is who he is. But on the other hand, we're looking for, if there's a crime, because we've seen the last days and the papers say that all the competent institutions, or the courts, are taking the necessary measures and everything that's not in accordance with the law to prosecute and to bring the guilty to justice and to be convicted. So that's the position of this club where I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4616	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4617	Mr. Chairman, it is not clear to me, gentlemen, why I insist that this item be removed from the agenda if we know that the same item of the agenda under 2 we have the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the entire Council of Ministers. And if there's any indication that the people who are supposed to join the Council of Ministers are subject to this particular report that's going on. Is it going to happen, or is it someone's fear of happening at the same session to name some people, and at point 7, the problem is that they're the problem of this report and that they have to be eight overrun later. I think it is also necessary to open a debate on this report, of course after the debate, the Commission will do far better and better to prepare this proposal for its sighting, because it has had enough 15 days, I guess about 15 days, I'm not sure, but I think it is about 15 days that these materials have already arrived and the Commission has had enough time to submit the report according to its position, in accordance with the report that we have received. And I think that we need this today, this item of the agenda that needs to stay and that it must be discussed and we will see what the problem is and in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we are asking that today we discuss this report, given that it is speculated in the public and the newspaper is written about crime, corruption, and I believe that this House of Representatives should not stand behind anyone who is involved in crime and corruption and that it should be helped to sanction them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4618	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4619	Mr. Grabovac, either you didn't listen to what I said or you didn't hear or you just ignore it. I repeat again, the Commission has no right not to suggest who goes to jail who won't. And the other thing is when you mentioned it was about the election. The election of ministers and the Council of Ministers is the 2nd and 3rd points, and this is only 8. So you have to choose a minister, and only then discuss this, if you think that's the reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4620	Thank you. Replica Grabovac. We're slowly bringing the end, these are the interventions around the agenda. I ask you to give an opinion, that is, the views of the MPs' clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4621	Mr. Šašivarević, I understood well. I did not ask the Commission to judge and judge, but I said that the Commission had time to compile its report by laying down the report it received and to ultimately give Parliament's proposal on how to behave according to the report. So I understood well, and you don't need to warn me about it. Second point 2 and point 7. It's true that they differ this is 2. This is 7th, but it's true that it's the same session and that it would be absurd for the ruling alliance to choose, and then to discuss these people afterwards. To make sure that we really do, and to see that one part of the people who are ministers or deputy ministers are involved in that part that is problematic. We're just about to open up, it doesn't matter who. I don't think this House of Representatives can protect anyone, whether he was from an alliance or an armory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4622	Thank you. Ambassador Ramiz Vilić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4623	The esteemed presidency, gentlemen of ministers, fellow MPs, we have formed committees here, and here it appears in this session that we are the first to disrespect the work of committees. Nor does their opinion seem to mean anything to us. Please, this is a very serious job. It needs a very serious approach, and I think that so far the Commission has done it in the best way possible. This is the review office's report. We support this report and it is not controversial, but it is the Commission's main task to propose to Parliament how to improve the ministry's work so that these things do not happen in the future. Today, without such proposals to involve this parliament in a barren debate, I don't think that makes any sense. The Commission, it's been repeated here a few times, is not a court. Let him who has sinned be and processed. But the Commission has a different task. And she wants me to do my homework properly. Please, and so let her go, don't let us tear down the reputation of the committee of Parliament, the place to keep the reputation of these committees. Because a different Parliament can't even work. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4624	Thank you. I would like to thank Ambassador Vilić. Ambassador Kulenović asked for a word? Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Thank you. We're finishing the debate on the agenda. We have a proposal from the Finance and Budget Commission to implement point 7 after the full completion of the review report and the auditors' report, particularly the Council of Ministers, and these three ministries will, in the meantime, come to the others. It means that we respect the new procedure, a new approach to the functioning of the Commission and in this context that we also respect part of the opinion of the OSCE delegation working with Parliament to improve the methodology and way of work of committees and Parliament as a whole. In this regard, who is in order to accept the Commission's proposal for finance and budget to remove point 7. from the agenda? Thank you. Who's against it? - Thank you. Who's restrained? At the presence of 40 MPs, the vote was 25, against 10, with 5 abstentions. So the Commission's proposal was adopted to remove point 7. from the agenda, and in this sense we find that it is not necessarily necessary to check the ethnic vote and adopted in this context, meaning without point 7. Who is it to adopt the agenda in question? Who's for please? No point 7. Thank you. Who's against it? - No. Who's restrained? - One. Thank you. Ambassador Banjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4625	Dear gentlemen of the College, thank you very much for breaking the Rules of Procedure this time, because you made it quite clear that those upstairs in Republika Srpska were first 10 abstentions to remove the point, and then voted for the agenda. And if you know better than to vote on the agenda, only his changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4626	The agenda was in executive form proposed from the 8th point. One item has been removed from the agenda. I know, this check of the proposed agenda is good, and I realize that we have adopted the following agenda: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the House of Representatives; 2. konstituisanje of the vijeć of Ministers (a) approval of the appointment of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers b) approval of the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers; 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on amendments to the Amendments to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH; 4. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport (first reading); 5. Report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2001; 6. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for January-March 2001, with an assessment of the situation for January-May 2001: 7. Giving consent to ratification (a) Agreement establishing an Interstate Council for Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Croatia on cooperation in the protection of natural civilization disasters, in order to give consent to ratification and 8. MPs' questions and answers. We can move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Do you have any objections and suggestions, observations about this record? Niko one's answering. Can we adopt? Who's in favor of adopting the minutes from the 11th session of the House of Representatives? Who's for please? - Thank you. Who's against it? - No. Who's restrained? – There is no unanimity, so 40 MPs voted 4th and a minutes were adopted from the 11th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 11 Ad.2. Constitutionalisation of the Council of Ministers: (a) approval of the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers and (b) approval of the appointment of Ministers and Deputy Ministers under (a) the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, all of you have received a report from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which sent us a decision to appoint the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which says in point 1. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija is appointed as the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of the Council of 2nd, the decision takes effect on the day of adoption and will be delivered to the House of Representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for approval. I would be free before the discussion, I would ask MP Begović or some sort of intervention or something like that to give the candidate of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency a word first, and only then to open the debate and all the elements of the discussion of the concept of the Council of Ministers' strategy in the coming period. I call on the candidate of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina named Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4627	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the presidency, MPs, honourable House Presidency, fellow ministers, distinguished guests, at the very beginning, I would like to thank you all for your support and cooperation on behalf of the Council of Ministers, who was chaired by Academyman Božidar Matić less than 150 days ago, less than 5 months ago, after being approved by this same House of Representatives. In this difficult time of the difficult changes that took place in the Council of Ministers region, there have been dramatic social challenges and a growing economic crisis. At 22 sessions there were discussions on 395 different topics and points, and all decisions came with a concession without even one situation in which at least we would try to impose a dominant position among us by revote. During that period, 27 information, 16 reports, 20 drafts, or proposals for international contracts, were considered and accepted. 60 decisions have been taken from various areas and other materials that have been in the role of building institutions and the legal framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Currently, in the parliamentary procedure of 33 proposals, i.e. draft laws, 8 sublaws are fully in line with the Council of Ministers whose adoption would meet the main requirements of the... document, i.e. from the guidelines for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into European integration processes. The accession to the Council of Europe, in parallel with the development of feasibility studies and the completion of the process that would result in the Stabilisation Treaty joining the European Union, remain at the top of the top of our list of priorities. What we have achieved in just over 4 months is not the results we wanted, but they have opened the process of fundamental change, because they have clearly increased the efficiency of the Council of Ministers' work and not just in previous periods. Let me remind you, namely the number of laws, decisions and measurable indicators of the Council of Ministers' work have been increased 2-3 times since the double-long eight-month term of the previous term. Therefore, credit must belong to all members of the Council of Ministers, but it is a special place for the Matić academic who has introduced a whole new style of work. I can freely say the freshness and seriousness as well as the focus of attention, our attention with a purely 12 political on the economic and development parameters of the competitive ability of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The main point of his presentation, which at the beginning of our mandate 22.2. defined the main directions for raising the country's competence. I'm not going to say it here as a whole, because they're an indisputable part of the continuity that we want to continue. Consider this exposure accompanied. It is also certain that these less than 150 days have detected many weaknesses that we can turn into our advantage if we spot them, if we recognize them, and if we face them. The Council of Ministers tried to act as a team, even when there were not enough concessions in the parliamentary majority formed by the council of ministers. That was good, but at the same time it occasionally created the wrong vision of harmonised relationships between us. It is precisely this knowledge that we need to pay more attention to political and expert alignments and, above all, within our parliamentary majority, and then in Parliament as a whole to the extent that it is productive. This should be done in all stages of preparation through production, commission work, adoption and after the application of legal and other acts, much more than we have done lately. Old habits under which the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, entity governments often acted as separate decision-making centres without some greater co-ordination of the same system institutions changed at an insufficient rate. This has been contributed by the often unexplained powers and responsibilities of different institutions and levels of decision-making that are somewhat, and the natural thing for inefficient complex troms and often too complicated and incomplete systems as is the one defined by the legal framework of the Dayton Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The non-implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina slowed down the development and adoption of the electoral law in accordance with the constitution, but at the same time in line with the European standards that bind us all. Some moves by representatives of the international community that have not sufficiently understood that the time of change is a common denominator, not just some kind of local characteristic that refers to only us have not always contributed to the realisation of the common goals adopted. Weaknesses, some of which I have listed here, should offer us to open and speed up the process of constant upgrading of the legal framework appropriate to our specificities, but also to our European orientation, and with full respect for all aspects of the Dayton Agreement. Our goal is, however, not only to enter these institutions and these processes, but above all, our goal is to introduce European standards into our state institutions so that they become a natural part of Europe, not some kind of mechanically associated member or some kind of unwanted cousin from a province that does not belong there. For these very reasons, we must work together in the next period to realise the recent initiative of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to clearly define and resolve the competences of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and entities, as well as the mutual relations between state institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The internal reorganisation, construction, construction and strengthening of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as better co-operation with entity governments, must be aimed at increasing the overall efficiency of state structures and at raising the competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not at sometimes unnecessary political debates leading us to further instability and poverty without results. Instead of just talking about the classical rotation of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, we today want to point out the need for change in our behaviour and internal organisation by harmonising different state institutions at all levels in accordance with the Constitution of 13 Bosnia and Herzegovina. Construction of registries that will be taken over by our people with the adequate and active participation of strategist experts to help us, not to work for us and decide on the priorities of this council of ministers. The State Service Act that needs to help us build a professional and patriotic, not a political and similar administration, needs to be found before Parliament as soon as possible, and we will soon deliver it with the partnership participation of certainly representatives of the international community. In the process of building proposals and adopting law enforcement, the international community should now take on the role of partners more and more and less the role it has become used to, the role of tutors. This primarily refers to those laws that are in the capacity to build reinforcements and self-sustainability of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but are not limited to these issues alone. Ladies and gentlemen, about 10 days ago, business was published... a year-old top list of 1,000 most valuable companies in the world. Each of them has a current market value greater than last year's social product throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first five companies together have a value of 500 years of social product throughout our country with both entities and all of us 4 million. Two of them five are much younger than ours here two of the youngest MPs, MPs, Damir and Drag. Only these two young companies are younger than them and they didn't exist when they were born, and now these two companies are worth more than 50 times more than all of us residents and the complete Bosnia and Herzegovina with all the international assistance we've received so far have been created in all these years from Dayton to this day. The developing countries are running even faster. Only two large telecom companies from two distant and not so large developing countries are worth more than 10 years of social product throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. For one of them, I remember when I enrolled in college, read only the news that they were just successfully coping with the latest cases of cannibalism in some teeth where cell phones are widely used today. I don't want anything else to say to this, but that the world is changing and developing faster than ever before and that it's running away from us every day and beyond. I think it must finally sober us up, and I believe that we are all convinced and forced to gather around a common vision and a system of values of a normal European country appropriate to what we are, but also to what we want to be in the third millennium and a new economy based on knowledge, information and never forgetting who we are, what we are, both together, and each of us individually. We have already presented the global framework of the economic development strategy. ministrica Hadžiahmetović spoke before this parliament. The strategy against poverty, the anti-corruption programme and the removal of barriers to investors, the report and the proposal for measures to increase the competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina are just some of the documents that we have recently presented to the public, as well as to international institutions, along with entity prime ministers Dr Ivanić and Dr Behmen. They represent our basic direction in which we must all move as quickly as possible. The alternative to that simply doesn't exist for us. Among our priorities that we will offer to this Parliament in co-operation with entity governments will be the activities on a comprehensive and concrete programme of building Vc corridors as a unique opportunity as well as one project in Bosnia and Herzegovina can offer a vision based on economic development and support for political and social reintegration. It carries with it the acceleration of 14 economic growth, the creation of new jobs, the promotion of trade and tourism, the integration of cultures and communities, the strengthening of regional co-operation and stability, or the realisation of all those images from our vision that we have set ourselves as priority. As proof of our commitment to this idea, the Council of Ministers will assign the Minister of the Treasury to give full co-operation to the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly and the entity authorities. We can only enter this if we reach a full political consensus in institutions and Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities. So it's a project that when it starts, and one day it's going to start, the question is whether we're going to start, or some generation that's going to start behind us. So, one day when it begins, it will have to have the support of several of the next calls of this parliament. When we leave the second, so when we two or three times change as power and the opposition will have to have a constant, and thank God if God does, we will change, in the next few calls of this House. It morati have to support and call on Parliament and the new Council of Ministers and new entity governments. So it's a project that can bring us together and connect us to new jobs, not share us and argue, because we don't do anything else. Instead of cornerstones, we need to let some people, in the name of the whole generation, in the name of all of us, see if it's symbolic, eventually discover a record that will mark the end of a job, or the beginning of a new one. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs, MPs, co-operation with The Hague Court, bringing back to people what is their property, the return of refugees and the fight against corruption and organised crime, is not our priority just because it is just and because it is. And not only because we show that instead of the rule of government we go to the rule of law, but also because it's the only way to attract foreign direct investors. Uniting property laws is only part of the package of measures. In addition, we have to ask ourselves again and again who it is that will come to this country to invest its technology, its capital and to open up jobs for us, unless exiles can come into possession of their property. Who will ever invest in a country that is the only one in Europe the refuge of war criminals and where the best-lived smugglers possibly live with people and drugs with the help of irresponsible, even politicians whose corruption is practically an integral part of the price of every export product or service that we do to ourselves, what to others. I have a few words to say about the relationship with the international community, because it is an important part of our political agenda. In fact, the Council of Ministers will work closely with entity governments and can and will assume leadership in partnership with the international community. The Council of Ministers wants to lead the process of building a legal framework for institutions that will be guaranteed to foreign investors that are worth coming here. For such a thing, it is necessary to change the overall image of our country, as well as the role of the international community in leading the change. For years, our authorities have been, such as the creation of circumstances, the objects of change led by international institutions with a lower degree of responsibility, and greater powers than ourselves. Still, we have to direct our grudges rather than theirs, because we ourselves have come into that position and we have called for them to decide for us. Today, however, we need to say a few words about how we think we are doing things further. We don't call them to do what they did anymore. We have long listened to representatives of the international community call on us with the right to be the owners of change. We're offered the concept... of how it's already becoming a domestic word, ownership. Unfortunately, the facility would make 15 changes, and we must go through a phase where we are partners in changes with the international community. Our experience in the past few months has been a lot of talk that we too must change, but also representatives and institutions of the international community. I will not point here to the inadequate behaviour of international institutions in the making of the electoral law, or to the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people, because in these events our responsibility cannot be avoided either. But completely unnecessary strict training, if I may say so, of foreigners on our heads of the State Border Service in their decision on the national composition of MPs. Then, still insufficiently transparent and inadequate procurement process so-called. The CIPS equipment for our citizens' personal documents, which Parliament will report in detail as soon as we complete all the information, and that is exactly what we are doing at tomorrow's Council of Ministers session, as well as a well-known and completely unacceptable process of selling a license to a third JIESEM operator, are only the most recent examples of the inadmissible behaviour of representatives of the international community which this council of ministers has neither intention nor will tolerate anymore. When it comes to selling a license for a third J.J.E.M. operator, it is absolutely certain that we will not allow the sale of a national treasure for 2 million marks, as those who are better off leaving on their own, so that we will not have to force them all together. Namely, this is no longer just about the wrong decisions of international representatives on behalf of our future instead of our institutions, not only of the economic damage recorded, or of the peoples' robbery of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, it is about the necessity of improving the partnership process in changes that entails an equal relationship between partners in rights and in the responsibility of domestic and international officials and institutions. At the very least, this is about restoring our own dignity, which we have brought down in our long-standing public and secret disputes, and here in this House and conflict, so pointlessly and brutally. So this is why I invite you all together to learn from this, to be as honest with each other as possible and to protect each other at least to the extent that we safeguard our own dignity, but the dignity of all of us together. I think it's the only way that strangers will appreciate it more, and I guess we'll respect each other to the extent that we deserve it ourselves. This Council of Ministers is ready and wants to co-operate with entity governments, with the presidency, Parliament to build on strengthening Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. This means that we are facing co-operation with the international community, so if we need to be prepared and invited to take decisions that the High Representative makes unless we are able to do so ourselves. And we're not ready for anyone to decide for us if that's why we have both strength and political will, wit and constitutional basis. These are all reasons... and alone as chairman of the Council of Ministers in the coming months a large part of the time to visit the construction of a new relationship and partnership in change precisely with representatives of the international community. Neither I nor anyone can succeed without clear and unequivocal support from this House, and this is what I am experiencing today. I am obliged to say that in addition to this item of the agenda, in addition to a statistical report on the activities of the Council of Ministers on 2-3 sides, a copy of the report on the competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose author I am along with Professor Matić and a large number of experts from both entities, and from a time before this parliament brought us together. Among the people who worked on this according to the methodology of the world economic forum from Davos,....business...in 16 co-operation with the World Bank Development Institute in Washington, there are a number of members of the Council of Ministers, as well as prime ministers of both entities. We will continue to work on this, and I believe that there is a much broader consensus than the simple parliamentary majority. Therefore, as well as the recommendations contained in it, and those currently being carried out by the same methodology, you can consider this a broader framework than what I have presented to you today as a political programme in accordance with Article 115(2). Rules of Procedure on the work of this house. I believe that all of us and the foreigners who help us both have the same goal of constantly reducing their role and making us the ones who are leading the changes from the change facility as soon as possible, because we built self-sustainable institutions and a self-sustainable economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina through our change partnership. I assure you that for this approach we have the full support of friendly countries and countries around the world, but more importantly to me, I believe that this is supported by the vast majority of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this Parliament, regardless of our national and political definition, which we may not have to agree on today in all the details. Otherwise, the world will move even faster forward, and we will be treated more and more as natives from some past centuries who are happy because instead of colorful mirrors today, they eventually got a cell phone. I assure you in the end that this council of ministers will be neither objects nor partners in such changes that possibly someone is going to serve us, because I believe that all of us together, and even individually, regardless of which party and people we belong, are still worth a lot more. I thank you for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4628	I thank Dr Lagumdžija, appointed candidate for the Council of Ministers chair by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency for his inspirational presentation, and in this context, I am sure that every discussion on development is a cause for discussion. Ambassador Muhamed Begović first called.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4629	The Honorable Chairman of this House, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the esteemed Chair of the House of Peoples, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, discussed this decision by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the appointment of Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and took the stand, respectively, for the appointment of Zlatko Lagumdžija as chairman of the just-right hit. Zlatko Lagumdžija, according to the assessment of the Members' Club, has all the necessary qualities for the future successful work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore, I have the honour to inform you that the MPs' Club is standing and joining the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the appointment of Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija as chairman. Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4630	I thank Ambassador Begović. Who's next to the word? poslanik Bilbi, Lolić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4631	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that the main board of the Serbian People's Union was held in Prnjavor on Saturday and today's session agenda. We unanimously decided to support Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's candidacy, to wish him successful work and to support our party member Mr. Mihajlović as minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4632	I thank Mr. Lolić for these words. Ambassador Lozančić
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4633	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, our club has also discussed the appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman and believes that Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija deserves and that in this time he can be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and from his presentation on the work over the past 150 days, as he said, the Council of Ministers is clear that this Council of Ministers has made certain efforts, that they have indeed worked to have certain effects from this data that only have 33 drafts of Council of Ministers' laws in the procedure. In any case, we will support, or we will vote for approval of the appointment of the chairman and also his proposal for members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4634	I thank Ambassador Lozančić. Who's next to the word? poslanik Grabovac. Expect her in the same tone. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4635	Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think there's any need for this much support, but we can declare it that way. But I have an objection. My remarks are in view of the Alliance as a whole, given that the former chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Matić, I guess if anything else the Alliance should have tried to find him, even though he turned off the phone and was worthy to come and say why he did so and resigned as the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think it was a turn since you leaned on Mr. Matić's work programme. So it is based on Mr Matić's work programme, if we know that Mr Matić's work programme did not produce the results, or that he resigned, it is unreasonable for me to understand what this further programme will be like, in particular, that you have made the main basis for this programme, which Mr Matić then presented, although we have not, at least I have never received in writing. I don't think we could at least read from your presentation how it would be the Council of Ministers, or who you would suggest if you were elected. I know it's point b, but it's important to tell who these people are, whether these people are going to be who they're going to be, and they're going to be, to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina out of this crisis, whether it's going to be the same 18 strategies we've had before. Are we going to wait four years so that we can get to prewar time, the one we had before the war and not reach that level, or we're going to have some new strategy that we're going to try to speed up, which was after World War II when Yugoslavia came out which was more destructive in four years, and that came out of this economic crisis and, you don't have to convince me that it's a perfectly clear situation that a new strategy and the Council of Ministers and its ministers must be put up, that is, the people responsible for this part. This is why the HDZ Representatives Club is given plebicitarian support within the Croatian Corps of Supervisors of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and no one has spoken to it when it comes to participation in the executive part of the government, so we do not know who these people will be, at least when it comes to the law of the Council of Ministers belonging to the Croatian people, whether it will be someone who will determine the SDP or parties that make up the Alijansa, regardless of which they do not have the legitimacy of one of the holders of sovereignty, which is the Croatian people. And that is why we believe that it is not enough when it comes to this part that you have stated that we are voting on the proposal, that is, the Presidency's decision for the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdžija, and if we personally do not have anything against Mr Lagumdžija, but we believe that the Alliance, which is clearly not respected by the most important segment, is the will of one of the holders of sovereignty, and that is the Croatian people, and we do not know who will represent the Croatian people in that part of the Executive Council of Ministers. So much, if you can bring it out sooner, we'll show ourselves, and if we don't know that we won't be able to support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4636	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. The poslanik Bogićević,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4637	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected guests, support for the SDP of Bosnia and Herzegovina has decided that the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency should run and appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. We understand this as well as the recognition and honor of the SDP, but much more than that one huge commitment and responsibility for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the efficiency of the institutions of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are in many economic, political and other issues at the very bottom of integration into normal Europeans, life and other flows necessary and for too long, over 100,000 people are waiting to return to their homes. Our programme of this House of Representatives was predicted only in this year's adoption of about 80 legal projects. Each of these legal projects must be passed by the Council of Ministers. The living standard of people and the imperceptibility of young people leaving the country should also be stopped. The adoption of decisions of the Constitutional Court on the consistency of the people cannot bypass the Council of Ministers and, of course, everything that will do to Bosnia and Herzegovina to the normal European state, the safe state for foreign capital, economic development, employment and all that we call the highest standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and therefore I think that the obligation and responsibility of the Council of Ministers to Parliament, but also Parliament to the Council of Ministers they will choose today, to achieve maximum coordination and co-operation in order to also make the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers a much more effective 19 in the coming period. We support the continuity of the programme council of ministers and the exposé of the candidate appointed by the Presidency of Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4638	I thank Ambassador Bogićević. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4639	Gentlemen of the chairman, honourable Members, honored guests, the Club of Members of the SDA in this House as a state-run and folk party of the Democratic Centre Party is for the functioning of the Council of Ministers of BiH as an executive body of government and that the same foundation of the Constitution and the law works in full capacity of its work. Of course, to the satisfaction of its citizens, citizens, but also to the benefit of the BiH state. We are therefore for the election of the Council of Ministers as executive authority, which, apart from that, is a legislative and judicial attribute of the rule of law that we all must be seeking. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a state, is in transition, of course its citizens and peoples, because of common opportunities and conditions in the country, are looking for the best personnel. People who will open perspective despite what we have today. Unfortunately, neither today's candidate for the Council of Ministers, as well as the former candidate and elected Council Chairman Božidar Matić, has found it necessary to consult with representatives of the SDA party, which is the strongest opposition party in this parliament by the number of MPs. We call that gesture inappropriate at this difficult moment, Bosnian. We're afraid of this volunteerism that, right here in these places, he knew himself often and most often went for something that I can't say out loud. That is why we will not vote for this chairman of the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4640	I thank Ambassador Borić. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4641	Dear gentlemen, as well as similar to communist orientations to both partisans, Mr Bogićević adds, and what the Lord would say, so here today we have comprehensive support for the candidate and his comprehensive programme that has been presented here today. Of course, it's the word support, support, and I translated it into Serbian, and I think it would be good to interpret it as respect. Because, of course, this kind of program and this kind of orientation can't stand or walk alone, so sticking to it is one of the terms that would be useful. I am careful within 3 minutes, because I have been given the report, is that the fat, one part, one thin, I am not saying this with karsasm, because it is underestimating Parliament and people in it, and that a report and accompanying material that is in one part bearing the name – the balance of competition of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the line of simulation. I think this last simulation is often present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the work of the current Council of Ministers. But I think it is really unacceptable to ask us to take part in the debate, Mr. Chairman, when we have received literally a hundred materials, and we need to prepare ourselves in a short time that is not up to 10 minutes and talk about an extremely important document such as the programme of the future chairmanship of the Council of Ministers. 20 Of course in a hurry, I think it's a good point. Mr. Lagumdžija is an extremely capable man and I appreciate his ability in terms of language structures quite clear messages to anyone who can read. I think he did it this time, because he said in his part that this is a difficult time of major change that is happening and that the Council of Ministers has been faced with a dramatic social challenge and a growing economic crisis. So, the crisis, creating a crisis becomes as you will later see in the report an advantage. Let me tell you, what Mr Lagumdžija said here also must be called a questionable conclusion, that all the decisions of the Council of Ministers were made by consensus, and in that report, therefore, gentlemen in Republika Srpska, that you know that all those laws voted against by MPs from Republika Srpska and against whom the Government of Republika Srpska stood were also adopted by the votes of ministers from Republika Srpska who will obviously be re-supported today. That's the direction it's going. I think it's quite clear that what it says is what we've achieved and in just over four months, it's not the results we wanted and I understand that they're not. But they have opened the process of fundamental changes, as the Council of Ministers has clearly increased its efficiency and not only in previous periods, but we just don't know the direction of that efficiency. They have two directions on that continuum. One leads to progress, the other leads to break-in. If the current situation in the economy towards the candidate's finding is unsatisfactory, then the directions he's talking about here are probably headed towards that other negative direction, of course not mentioned here. The credit for this all that has been made belongs to all the members and I think it belongs to them, but especially to the academic Matić who is not here today and who has resigned irrevocably to what he has done and what he has faced. I think we gentlemen also have a very clear message, but I think there's only a lack of quotes here, because this is quoted from the communist party's event in Yugoslavia, and it's certain that these under 150 days have detected and many weaknesses that we can turn into our advantage, just missing comparatively, you know that then there were all weaknesses, our comparative advantage. It's a direct quote without a quote. Please continue, gentlemen, we have a very responsible task here because Mr Lagumdžija has ordered very important, precisely for all these reasons of weakness in the coming period, we must work together to realise the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency's initiative to clearly define and resolve the competences of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities. So it is not clear to the Constitution according to what is here what the competences of the institutions are, and what the entity's competences are supposed to be, is the position and initiative of the Presidency. I would ask the members of the Bureau, especially Mr Radišić, whether he is such an opinion and whether they are such opinions that it is not clearly delimited even though it is quite clear to me. Furthermore, a very important message in this programme is the reorganisation of internal, construction as a new, upgrade and strengthening of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as better co-operation with entity governments must be focused on greater overall efficiency of state structures and on raising the competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course in the following period. So, gentlemen, I know and the public is a well-known view that Mr Lagumdžija and the party chaired has launched an initiative to change the status of the Council of Ministers, and what is seen in that supplement that we have received today, that instead of the Council of Ministers we also have a government, because here it clearly orders reorganisation means within the existing and construction as something new. For, I pray you, in his part of which he stepped down from in this report, he said - an upgrade and a constant legal framework that there would be a way to which this Council of Ministers would go. So 21 legal upgrades, instead of gentlemen, to say consistent and correct movements in the legal framework given to the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's not about moving within the legal framework, it's about building up the legal system. I think Mr Lagumdžija made a very good message, I understand the content of this message, but I cannot accept that this is welcome in terms of what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is also worth the attention, rather than having stories about the classical rotation of the Council of Ministers, we today want to point out the need for change in our behaviour and internal organisation and harmonisation of different state institutions at all levels in accordance with the Constitution. And the Constitution here is a communant by accident, because the Constitution does not foresee a change in the internal organization. He doesn't predict change. The Constitution means application, not change. Then one, there's a title missing here, and I'm going to take enough freedom to get one title that would come in handy, and it would read, don't write the laws anymore, and I support it, and then it would stand behind that in the process of making, proposing, adopting and implementing the law, the international community should now take over more and more of the role of the partner, and the less and less of the role that she's used to tutoring. I saglasan absolutely with this attitude Mr. Lagumdžija has expressed, and as long as we don't go, it won't be good. I think it's quite clear that in what we now had as a report, I'm just asking that, as the report said, the Council of Ministers was doing laws. No, gentlemen, he is transporting laws from international institutions to Parliament. And it's not about making, it's about transporting like a traffic term. So these are the things that seem strange to you. I was expecting here today, respecting the personality and educational level of candidates that we will get fully operational programming principles from which we will see what we are promising in Mr. Matić's programme, whose successor Mr. Lagumdžija is in the Council of Ministers that we will see, and of course we couldn't see it, because in that report that was written correctly, Mr. Lagumdžija said on two pages + the title was just a tax-listed list of how many sessions, and how many documents, which was the fate of those decisions, documents, the law on that was not a word. How many adopted documents have changed the present of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm interested in that. Since we've had such messages before and we have them and now, I'm not happy because I wanted to see quite clearly what Mr. Lagumdžija and the cabinet he's going to propose specifically and that he's offered us a time period here for which he's looking for his activity and that he's reportingly informs us what he's promised and what he's done. Since he has promised us what could in no way be an economic programme, but it could be a political message in which direction the Council of Ministers will lead, it can't be satisfied by gentlemen with the candidacy for such a high and significant function, so I would suggest the following. I would ask a few questions before that – if all this is a program that we have received, I would ask that we be left with space to read, if not, then I would ask that from this thick material in the shirt that we have received operational indications in terms of the hints being delivered that we will follow them with the dynamics of realization and the dynamics of monitoring so that this Parliament can plead. I would like to give you a few questions from the Republika Srpska MPs of Serbian nationality. What are your reasons for supporting the candidate? Is this a gentlemen report that reads from 400,000 to 2,100,000 inexplicable and illegal actions in the ministry. I'm not going to say that Mr. Lagumdžija did something ugly, because I don't know, but what I'm saying here exactly is that Mr. 22 Lagumdžija did not activate an internal audit, because as a responsible man at the place of the minister who spent most in Bosnia and Herzegovina had to, taking the duty to see exactly what he was receiving, what was he taking illegally and to take action against the persons who did the actions that were wrong. There are three kinds of responsibilities. One is, if you don't know what you've received, it doesn't aliminate you. If you have received and know what you have received, you have done nothing, you participate in it. If you've done the deed, then of course you're both a participant and one who fits. I don't know what this is about Mr. Lagumdžija, I can tell, because I can't guess or want to, but I know he has to be in one of these three qualifications. None of them aliminate him as a man, nor as an expert, as a man of reputation, a man of calling, a man who wishes to, as he himself said, take office as chairman responsibly. I must tell you gentlemen from Republika Srpska that I will also be asking a lot of questions on the means of information if you do not answer my reasons for your support. And Mr. Lolić, I understand your profession, it's medicine, human activity.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4642	poslanik Banjac, please, this is the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4643	You can't take my word for it, I have the right to speak to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4644	Intervening from the aspect of a possible dialogue. You have no right to have a dialogue at the House of Representatives with a particular nation, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4645	I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4646	This is the House of Representatives elected by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in free elections, a secret vote in several election units. So there's no Republika Srpska from the Federation, etc. He's got multiple constituency units. This is the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4647	You don't know the choice procedure, sir. That's your problem. But are you done? Reduce your emotions a little bit. Galamite. It bothers me. Please, I want to say that it is quite strange that support is given to the Bianca, without explaining why – it is not right, that gentlemen lead to a negative future for all our citizens and peoples. I don't know why you're doing this for your reasons, but I'd like to hear the answers. I'd like you to taxfully list everything Mr. Lagumdžija's convocation has done positively, which now obliges you to vote for him further. I don't mind. I just want to hear it. And I have no reason, Mr. Chairman. Of course, people raise their tone when they have no arguments. I understand that. But don't do it to me when you're not taking other people's time. Don't do it to me. Don't do it to me. I think dealing with arguments is a tough thing, but it's mandatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4648	I also support arguments in this context dialogue with MPs in the House of Representatives. The call of MPs in any context is not good. It simply does not create an atmosphere that allows for a democratic election procedure, simply one of the most important positions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. One of the most important positions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4649	It's a business intervention and you can't do this to me. I won't let you do this to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4650	Which means, I'm asking you to have the tolerances of Poslanik Banjac, I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4651	Mr. Chairman, you're holding a session, and you're not commenting on the session. You're not the one who's commenting on someone's performance. If you wish as an emissary to replicate to me and to what I have said, go out for the pay phone, you are as messenger as I am. I'm asking you not to do it anymore. I asked the MP to explain his position of support. I have a right to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4652	I'm begging you. Ambassador Bilbija asked for a word. There's no asking questions and dialogues like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4653	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have not spoken publicly, or the club has not spoken out whether it will be supported or not. That's what I'm talking about. Here's to tell me who knows if I'm gonna back up or not, I don't think anyone has a safe opinion. We wouldn't be discussing here right now, because it's not on the agenda of the Council of Ministers' reports in the past, I don't know how many days. He would turn the discussion a little bit in the other direction, here, as Mr. Lord here quoted, you will also invite me to quote the man who is from our neighbouring republic, and this is Petar Njegoš. So let me translate that a little bit into this work of Parliament. We have a lot of problems here and a lot of arrangements, and after all that, after a lot of time, agreements, negotiations, we still come up with some solutions. Therefore, our journey is not easy. But I now publicly declare that the Party of Democratic Progress will support Mr Lagumdžija as the chairman of the minister, supporting its members who are in the Council of Ministers, and the club I am headed to will support all of this. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4654	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4655	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I would like to welcome the Presidency's initiative, namely to nominate them that they have finally got the strength to lead, let's say the strongest political parties that make up the assembly majority, which is obliged to carry out staff cleanings in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not to offer better qualitative solutions, proposes for the Council of Ministers chairman. With that aspect, I also want to ask the future Council of Ministers, as well as the prime minister a few questions. In my exposé, I will accept this material as an exposé, that the minister, i.e. the chairman of the Council of Ministers, tries to determine on the basis of the following questions: - What will the Council of Ministers and Mr Lagumdžija, as chairman, do Bosnia and Herzegovina join the Partnership for Peace and Other European Integrations, above all, from the aspect of forming a single army of BiH, then the police of BiH and other bodies necessary for one normal state? Will the chairman, i.e. the Council of Ministers, whom we will choose today to challenge the communication of the Republika Srpska government, or the International Assembly with the UN tribunal on behalf of the state? They don't have that right. That is why there is an institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in Article 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina's 8th constitution is clear that all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina need to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. Without any special passing of any acts and making, looking for time and making special gaps in that direction. - Then will the Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, press both with the international community and others in due time so that the Constitutional Court's decision is finally implemented in the entity constitutions? - Will the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers that we will choose today again offer an electoral law that will not pass at the Parliamentary Assembly, and thus neither Bosnia and Herzegovina enters the Council of Europe, i.e. an electoral law that is outside the human rights code, which we also adopted in Article 2 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in the end, I have to give my opinion. I thought maybe I'd vote for the podnatary, if he's a prime minister, since he made it clear on TV that he would first consult with the family, or if the family gave him consent to be the prime minister's council's mandate. If it is, then maybe we'll talk in another context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4656	Take it easy. We have a report for the discussion, Ambassador Bjelobrk. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4657	The order of last-dating candidates for the Council of Ministers has put me in a position for a moment that respected opposition colleagues are on some terms and are ready to support the future Council of Ministers, which would make me very happy. I am convinced that Mr. Lagumdžija will do anything to provide valid answers. I'm very interested in how the reaction will go. I must admit that some of the subsequent interventions, of course, have re-encouraged me in such thinking, and that is why I want to engage in the debate to visit some of the basic positions of the Alliance that it offered to this Parliament not even four months ago. First of all, the rating that was quoted here at the outset is inconsistencies compared to the text offered. There is talk of major changes in the region. This is interesting in the region is left short for the public from the esteemed counterpart Banjac, and he knows very well as all of us about the changes that have taken place in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in Croatia, which put Bosnia and Herzegovina in a completely different position, in a far more favourable position. I suppose it holds that a regional problem these days that is happening between Foca and Beer and it will be a very important thing for Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress. And I'm not going to tell you about the other details, otherwise you'd be replicating. I want to talk about the problem that is here, the candidate application and the amendments to the Constitution. As legalists of all 42 MPs and my smallness among them took an oath here where she strictly stated she would stick to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And one of his provisions in the final part speaks under which conditions the Constitution to and from change. So it's a completely legitimate process of political ideas and possible changes to the Constitution, about that, then. And when I get to say, valid reasons for that and when a relevant political majority is created in this House. But I can't not say. Interestingly, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the last year and a half, there has been a simple attack by defence spokesman Dejton, and from the ranks of those, I have a home, I am prepared to document it, which for 96 and a half days did not publish the Dayton Agreement with a large press confidential. I'm afraid of such defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4658	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4659	Gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, fellow MPs, dear guests, I would like to report to Parliament that the Democratic People's Community at the party presidency session on Saturday has discussed the issue of mandated Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and reached certain conclusions. Before these conclusions, I would like to thank the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which for the first time expressed its readiness to consult the Democratic People's Community in resolving this issue and to resent Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija for not finding it appropriate. It's probably his overload, but I think he could at least make contact on the phone. Appreciateing all this, I would like to draw attention to the operational plan to carry out the tasks that the Alliance has given itself and to the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not going to analyze them here. I believe that the mandater, or future chairman of the Council of Ministers, will take this operational plan and deadlines far more seriously. By estimating what has been done so far and creating an ambiance that still at least 26 is approaching Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Europe and will appreciate that at the Federal Parliament in the House of Representatives today a reserve that we have had has been removed, the Democratic People's Community will support Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija as a candidate for the Council of Ministers, for the chairman, pardon.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4660	I thank Ambassador Đedović, MP Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4661	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, has fallen to me today in the eyes of this discussion, which are more of a political nature. I don't even know this time of the present and future whether we're going to need it from this crisis that we're in, or whether we're going to get out of politics or get out of work and economics. I'm counting on this second one. In that context, I have 2-3 questions. Since I've also appointed previous candidates, I would now like to see Mr Lagumdžija, whom I unusually appreciate as a politician. The first question would be mine, he said in his exposé that he supports joining the European Union as the current minister at the Council of Ministers, likely to have voted in favour of the draft electoral law, because it was proposed by the Council of Ministers. However, when it was here in Parliament, the Alliance, whose head it is, voted against the law. Now I don't know if he's like a minister in another office and here a politician in someone else who's in collegiate and contrary to each other. Secondly, it doesn't apply to the candidate, asked a question here. He says, "Some people wonder and some people don't wonder." Some people wonder. We know how he was conceived and elected House of Representatives. They wonder more about those who have the least citizens behind them. So those parties with the highest number of votes or votes are not asking questions. So, citizens are BiH only to vote, and others are wondering and others are deciding. I'm against it. BiH citizens should also participate and respect their will and desire. Third set of questions I'd like to ask professor. Lagumdji, referring to, which could be on a list of five questions to tell us, in this term of office and in the period, otherwise, of the Alliance's rule. How much will national income increase per capita? How much foreign investment will attract, since Mr. Lagumdžija is a favorite of the international community. I know in this second environment, Đinđić says a billion and 250 million, and another 30 gets donations. I am interested in it alive, and on the basis of how many new jobs it will open, because our politicians in RS have lied to the citizens in the elections, they said 50,000 new jobs would be, and I argue when it is balanced and before the next elections that there will be fewer jobs, because privatisation carries job layoffs and cuts. Are we going to tell BiH citizens the truth, or are we going to act politically in certain areas? How much will the average personal income increase if Mr. Lagumdžija tells us? How much will the pension increase, 5%, 10%-20%, and that based on these 5.6.7 indicators that he gives and when he comes down from this function and if I'm afraid, I'm not afraid, but I think that in this state he'll be spent too, and which may not be good for him, maybe he should have left it for later, because maybe this isn't the time when he's supposed to be chairing, and then he balances it out, and I said, I've increased the average personal income from 240 to 270 marks, but I've recorded 5% of the growth. I've increased employment to 5,000 new jobs, or I've reduced employment. 27 I expect, I will not grieve for anyone, and the closest thing to me was Mr. Raguž's program, he was quite specific. So, I'm just being able to plead, I have to have in the area of economics what it offers, and leave the politics behind. It's in us, I've been a member of the party committee for 30 years and they say when we start talking politics they say it's for the afternoon. Let's do what our job here is to get this BiH out of the crisis. I don't see in these offers what is offered and in these programmes, especially says Mr. Matić's programme, it's going to turn out like a dogma, because it needs to be passed down from knee to knee. Mr. Zlatko says he'll take over that program. So now from Mr. Zlatko next who takes it from him, he'll take it over and he'll turn it as... and possibly make some new communist manifesto out of it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4662	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4663	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will try to be brief and clear. I guess that's the way I was when we chose our previous Alliance mandate. In fact, I said then that I doubt the Alliance in this form of political forces in BiH will make a qualitative step forward. Unfortunately, I was right. We can talk about what we want, but Mr. Matić resigned because he failed the program he led. That's what they wanted to confess to him or not, that's what they wanted. I am concerned that the future prime minister, Mr. Lagumdžija, is trying to go that way, which was drawn by Mr. Matić, and we know that he has suffered a failure. Inport to go that way, I don't think it's good. So this is, however, one new time from the '90s and then back here, not coming back, one new time, it's not like that time until the '90s. The political forces that exist in BiH must be respected. They just have to respect each other. She can't be secular to political rivals, not to tell her opponents. It is incomprehensible that a new government is formed with the strongest political party in BiH, no one is talking because it is a crisis of the government. We can say whatever we want. In democratic countries, it is known that when the prime minister resigns, it is the government's crisis and it is known that this is happening again. The presidency found it appropriate to offer Mr Lagumdžija again to serve as Prime Minister. I can accept that, but I can't accept that you're simply not looking for new ways, that the program succeeds. In my opinion, there is only one guarantee line in BiH, only one that can say, who can participate in one authority that should bring this BiH forward, which is the strength that the state and the strength that it does not want. To be very personal and completely open, I often contact all MPs here in this House. I've almost established with everything a very normal relationship, a normal conversation, I say, there's not one that doesn't say that his family's goal is to target another family in BiH. There's not one here. I want us to act in a political sense. All MPs in parliament, meaning they want to improve the entire BiH territory, both for their family and for all other families in BiH. It's supposed to be a border line that can line into power or can't be in power. I think that's the way it is. 28 But the Alliance behaves completely sectarian. Believe me, I'm sorry. It acts like that communist time, when they were all there who weren't in the black crow party, and I know how it was at the time, it felt. The U.S. thank Bog she never acted like that. We've always asked for quality people, including Zlatko Lagumdžija to be Deputy Prime Minister when the SDA had power. Today, the Alliance is simply deferencing some of the people who have been close to these ten years of government, who have preserved BiH. It's normal for me to be in ministerial places, in ministerial assistants, etc. People change there, but I'm not normal to go to the porters down almost every firm that people change, that in public services in municipalities in cantons etc. People change on that basis. If the Alliance keeps going that way, it's not good people. It's not good. I don't see a way out for this state of BiH. I therefore say and appeal to think differently in the Alliance, for the sake of the Alliance, for the good of the citizens and for the good of all the peoples in BiH, because this is not the way to lead the country. Zlatko gave us a nice speech here, but I'm gonna ask you a few questions now. The Council of Ministers, led by Mr Matić, offered not a single legislative project, but an inheritance project from the previous Council of Ministers and from Mr Petrić, which we voted on, is not the work of this ministerial council. It is there, there is a list of those, they discussed it, that is, but it's not the work of this Council of Ministers, it's a fact. We don't have to fool ourselves that that's the way it is. Because of that, I will not be able to vote in this way for such a prime minister. I think that the will of most BiH citizens is not represented in this ministerial council that should be the continuity of Matic's authority, or its failure. I'm sorry that one academic didn't have a good political assessment at first that it would be spent in such a way and I said then that it would not succeed and I claim and now this Alliance will not make that step. I also argue that the responsibility of these people sitting in this parliament is enormous to make BiH a step towards Europe, but not with those projects, which, in their beginning, offer some kind of discrimination against other citizens of Europe who have laws at one civilization level. I will never raise my hand here for any legal project, which is civilizedly jeopardising any BiH citizen. That's why I think we have to make a political environment here that this is happening and then economics. Only these two ways, these two forces can bring BiH's progress parallelly. Neither can politics alone nor can economics do it alone. So the political environment for the development of the BiH economy and these citizens and these people can do it for good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4664	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Brk for agreeing that today's House of Representatives session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is present for the first time and welcome to the chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr Ilija Šimić. Welcome to the House of Representatives. The next participant in the event is Ambassador Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4665	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, my discussion will try to be brief, I will try to enter another course on this issue, on these issues, and I will try to ask perhaps one key question, which is 29 in front of all of us, in which we are full of mouths, in which we objectively have a lot of contradiction in this House, in which it will require an additional political honesty for all of us in time until the 9th month. I believe that according to the current development of the situation in this House, the appointed mandater will receive a majority in this House. I believe he won't need my vote for that majority, because I won't give it to him for consent to the club's decisions, but I want to, however, make a district here first. If I were to make a decision as a person, I would vote for the gentleman as an individual, today I would vote for Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, because I believe that there are references for the Council of Ministers, I think that some worse ones have been chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH before, and one of the key reasons why I would do so is, my view of life, because it is also a rotational sequence, meaning where the Bošnjak should be headed by the Council of Ministers and from my relationship to the Bosniak people and, in general, towards the equality of the people of this country, I would like to give his vote. That's the reason I'm thinking about it. When it comes to part b. point b. when it comes to the team, I would be absolutely against it. So, both as a person and as a representative, I am against and because of the present arrogance of the majority over the minority and in this Parliament. No interparty, no parliamentary life and no spirit. There is no respect for the opposition as a correction and someone who can make a correct and smart proposal. I am talking about Parliament about relations and the spirit that exists in Parliament and the way the Council of Ministers, which is running, is being elected on the right. So, for that team, I wouldn't be, and I wouldn't think about it at all because of personal solutions and I don't want to think about it. What's the second thesis I want to tell you about? Is the country's first diplomat, the time to decide on this issue tactically, probably along with the Alijans, moved 150 days straight. At first, it is as if it were a completely new beginning, or first choice. Realistically, that's the kind of approach we have. However, it is not necessary to escape the fact that the reasons for this are, above all, the resignation of Mr Matić. That the resignation has a very strong political weight in BiH and that the public did not give it enough weight in the sense that it was a crisis of the executive authority, or of its actual decay. Get away from the cause. He's not one academic who gets a lot of praise, who's said to be a high moral man, etc. He didn't resign for such petty reasons. I mean, the question of the adoption of the electoral law, the question of all the questions of this bill, we heard and addressed the Lord, we heard all the messages and stories in the last few days, etc. It's a big question that I'm now being asked a very serious dilemma, which, objectively, I'm afraid of. Is it true our relationship is on the way to Europe? From strategic and tactical? Is he honest, gentlemen? We're in a complex situation where we have to pass the law, if we want to go to Europe, and we know how and why we didn't bring it. I'm afraid and I'm asking everyone and the public, or I'm expressing fear, yes, I'm saying God Bog if we're in Buridan's ass's position to look on two sides. Because of the occasion, the consequences of not passing the electoral law are not sufficiently seen. We can appeal to general human rights, but we don't have that, formally we don't have that document, we don't have it to complete our legal system, and without it we can't objectively go to Europe. Let's say it again at 9 months, so maybe it's better we didn't bring it. It is true that there are differences between the Alliance and the opposition, I will say, strategic views on and, the essence of the law and all the contents that it should have, but it is forgotten that the Constitution in BiH is prescribed and the procedures and that it cannot be overworked if the law is to be passed. She's not 30. She can be overstretched. I therefore appeal and expect, I expect this question to be a question of all questions if this is our sincere will and orientation towards Europe, i.e., I ask very clearly. Has anyone in the Alliance, or is it even clearer, that the key SDP partner in the Alliance has been advocating against his demands under the electoral law, or will the debate on the electoral law be the same as we had and whether the current president, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, will be in the same position as Mr Matić? It's a question of all kinds of questions to me. And I think I want to say this, I don't expect a solution in the head of the prime minister, I expect a solution here. We need to find a way to get to that law and we need to understand that it must have constitutional grounds. If we agree that the timing is the 9th month, then people have to give up some of the cumbersome views in this House and only then allow for the implementation of that programme, when it comes to supporting the world and when it comes to this feedback, that is, the help or the impact of democratic Europe on democratic processes in BiH. So that's my key dilemma, and that's crucial to my question, which is neither in the opening exposé nor in the program put so prominently as a note-bene, as a musk, if we want to go to Europe. I want to say the last thought. If we don't pass the election law in the 9th month, I personally and my voters will understand that BiH or the Alliance does not want to go to Europe at this time. That's how I'll understand, because I don't have enough arguments for a second opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4666	I thank Ambassador Amidžić and finally MP Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4667	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I've come out to say just a few words. I've been burdened by some dilemmas lately. First of all, if I had no objection to Mr Lagumdzija's election as president of the Council of Ministers, I wouldn't find it difficult to raise my hand personally if it were personal as such. But I'm worried about the Alliance's policy. After the Napoleonic wars in Europe, and in my opinion, the Napoleonic wars were revolutionary, they beat feudism and led to... capitalism, but after those wars, an alliance was created, which I found odd, suspicious, and now it's associated with something, this alliance of ours and all the alliances that are a little strange and suspicious. For what? The Alliance is basically fighting for majorization, for civil reproving, and that's not good. I said it's not good for BiH. For her permanent and current structure. HDZ, at least its representatives here, have left this place in their own time, this parliament, have returned, but many are wrong if they think they have returned to their heads and lost thoughts and lost attitudes. No, no, no. We have the same attitude. We have the same thoughts, we have the same platform. I was the first to be one of those who, in every place, fought for HDZ representatives here and here at BiH level as a state and at the Federation level to return to the parliamentary benches, but to vehemently, consistently and heroically fight for their views. We do not need to be any self-sanitary, it is not a place because we are people, who, in a political sense, will act constructively and look to build this country and we have returned, but also today, ready to deconstitute the Croatian people in BiH, continues at all levels and at BiH levels and especially at Federation levels. The case with the Herzegovska Banka, the case with the Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia, the case, all that says that 31 is so and we want that trend to end and we think that the Alliance is the one that in some ways, even inciting these things. That's why I'm critical of that and that kind of policy, and not against individuals in that alliance, and that's why we're not going to vote for this, because this is a game, because when Mr. Raguž made it impossible and this, it was an introduction in the practical sense of playing around the electoral law, it was also to deconstitute especially the smallest people, to seduce the majorisation of civil revote and against that and... that means that in political fundamental issues we're thinking about, and that's the essence and crisis, in some ways, the crisis in these things will last until we get rid of it through one...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4668	I thank Ambassador Baković and the discussion has been exhausted. We've got two more. Spasojević and MP Neimarlija. The poslanik of Neimarlija, and the Messenger of Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4669	The chairman, fellow MPs, guests, election and appointment, or certification of the appointment of prime minister and government in the countries of representative democracy is a top political event. The importance of the event is proportionate to the political and economic difficulties or problems that the country has. We are concerned with the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, the election of the Council of Ministers and the esteem of the circumstances in which our country is, today's act, should be an event, which maximumly engages the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public. Unfortunately, what we have here, here at this time, testifies that Bosnian Herzegovic publicity does not add to this event any closer to the importance and attention that it would, given the circumstances in which the country was required. I followed and saddened myself, to be honest, to react to the statement of my fellow Banjac in the lower part of our hall. At one point, it seemed like entertaining guests at this session today that deals with such a serious and important issue. It seemed, among other things, that I was prepared, of course, and that I was polymising with my colleague Banjac, because Banjac, a colleague of Banjac, had transferred to the usual chairman Avić, and in relation to all other MPs, his whole attitude had a very high tone, and in a relationship, I must note that, once again, he had resorted to or talked to some requirements of consistency, so while warning the chairman of Avdić, it was quite justified that he did not comment from the position of the speaker of the MPs, he forgot that in his capacity as chairman in the previous term, he was incomparably more than the chairman of Avdić was involved in the debates and I am prepared, of course, to call on the stenograms from the previous period when his colleague Banjac chairing this House. Of course, I do not hold this important previous determination, which motivated me to come out with other reasons, but I have recognized in the sameness of my fellow Banjac with all the respect and roles he has and as MPs with debt, to say, with a successful experience in the work of this Parliament and as the chairman of one of the strongest parties in this House, his address to MPs from the RS and a completely inappropriate address to the MPs of a nationality as one of the reasons why we do not attach importance to this important event or at least part of the importance which he objectively deserves. MPs in this House are responding to their political parties and voters for their actions. No MP has the right to be an arbiter and judge over 32 with the resignation of another MP. The behavior of paternal, arbitarian behavior of fellow Banjac, and here I have raised my tone a little, is one of the reasons why, by my judgment, of course, this act has no meaning that it deserves. The other reason, too, or even more important, I would simplify, as much as I'm not sure it can be simplisticed. The chairman of the SDA party club, he said that we SDA MPs from our club would not vote for the mandate and presented the reasons. I would add that we MPs, or a large part of the MPs, would repeat, in fact, that we will not be against either, because the SDA has always reflected the needs of the state, the people and the citizens of this country and, of course, the fundamentality of the Council of Ministers' function. We will not be against the election, but we will not vote in favour, because the SDA, we have heard that the Presidency, with all due respect, has focused a party that has one MP here, and in preparation for the previous composition of the Council of Ministers, the party that had the most votes in BiH in the last elections has not been consulted at all. The second is, as it is, not to repeat, an unbelief, because given the circumstances of the political and economic situation in which our country is located, we remain in it, I personally hold that a representative government can function successfully. However, I repeat, something that has been said is not a reason. The reason is that this lack of importance, which is attached to today's act, in my court, is unfortunately in a direct and reverse proportion to the promises made by the Alliance with the establishment of the first or its performances and promises it made, exaggerated, or in reverse proportion to the proportions of those promises. The promises were too great, megalomantic and not, of course, unrealized and not the addition of adequate importance to my court is, somewhere in that discrepancy between the promises we made and, of course, the results we had. It is logical that the opposition party speaks of failures and shortages, such as logically that the parties in power, those who have a position to highlight successes in the first plan. I would just remind myself, not wanting to be either ominous, nor to point out too much, actually because the MPs of the party currently in opposition that we are in the February work plan of this House of Representatives, to remind you, among other things, that we will end up with last month procedurally, so to speak, process or implement the procedure of 52 laws, or legal projects that will prepare the Council of Ministers. In the June plan, of course, the plan was made in coordination with the Council of Ministers. These projects or plans are somewhat tempered, but they still bear witness to a terrible discrepancy between the promises that were made and what we really had. However, that is not the main reason either. I'm potentialing something else, and part of it, my colleague Amidžić led me to it. Mr. Matić's resignation was interpreted as being interpreted as such, he interpreted it immediately after the rejection of the electoral law, in fact, he said the refusal of the electoral law was the reason for his resignation. We heard a whole series of additional interpretations, even significant representatives of the international community spoke or added on his part the reasons why Mr Matić resigned, because he simply had no room to realise the projects he had imagined because of blockades or obstructions and the inability for the Council of Ministers to act and the interferences that had been imposed on him, among other things, by the government of the entities, on that all the Government of the RS. However, the fact is that in the first interpretation of the resignation, the first plan was to reject the electoral law. The opposition team, quite rightly, said it would be logical for the entire Council of Ministers to resign because the Council of Ministers acted as the creator of the election law project. And that would be quite logical in countries of representative democratic tradition. However, in this regard, 33 people who represented this, quite rightly, forgot that this was not the first case, that the Council of Ministers proposed a law and that the ruling majority, who chose it, did not accept it. We've had it in our previous session. This is BiH. This wasn't a unique case, first precedent. What was unique, however, was that the chairman of the Council of Ministers had given reason to resign because of the failure to adopt the electoral law, and the prominent representatives of his party had refused the law, with little gainful representation as a political success. I am sorry that a colleague, or vice-president of the House of People, from the SDP is not here, but, his performance in Strasbourg or Brussels, I do not know now, immediately after the rejection of the law, within the scope of the activity and the participation of our delegation, which he is headed by the Council of Europe Assembly, the statements he made there, as a matter of fact, were politically rude and not serious, because as a party representative, he praised the noble, winning rejection of the laws passed by the Council of Ministers or made as his own proposal. That's actually the main reason why I came out, in terms of calling the Council of Ministers and the mandate I expect today to be confirmed. Respecting the circumstances in which we are located, take over until the end or all members of the Council of Ministers and people in the parties who educate the Council of Ministers, the obligation to take care of the state and less about the next elections. In the wake of not adopting the electoral law, the ruling parties of the discussion looked like they were spoken by opposition people, who are far more concerned about the next elections on how to win, rather than the people responsible for passing the law here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4670	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. Replica Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4671	Sir, Reverend Neimarlija, of course you've spent more time commenting on what I said and thank you for listening to me. I hope you'll think about what I've been saying. For you, of course, the mockery of the honourable MP that I asked to be taxed in the program is what the honourable candidate found as an inheritance and asked to be taxed on what the candidate's presidency would do for a period of time and I asked that the period be defined and that this parliament be reported. It's a joke to you. Of course it is. For you, it's not a joke, sir, that you and I here got this piece of paper, here's how fat it is, and it took us to serve as the basis for Mr. Lagumdžija's application, we won the session. Never and, if not, the Rules of Procedure say otherwise. For you, this isn't a joke to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, Your Honor, I cigt your words, you are against it, but you will vote with abstention, and you expect him to be elected. That's what you said, not me. So, I understand your position to reduce the quorum so Bog doesn't make some of the unfortunates, which I won't mention decide not to vote and that's the fact, but in the end to end this story, by quoting, not mine in life, and by doing so in politics, you have to act crazy at the right time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4672	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. The replica of Neimarli. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4673	I was expecting, of course, the replica of my fellow Banjac and I'm surprised by the content. However, I must remind my colleague Banjac that I did not evaluate his entire statement, nor evaluated his arguments and his questions addressed to the mandate, but merely stated as an indication that he was in the parts of his attitude, or that certain statements caused laughter in the lower part of the hall. I am sorry, colleague Banjac, I have expressed it only as an illustration of the fact that during the debate on such a significant thing in the lower part of our Parliament, it is a fact and it was only your statement in some acts that caused the laughter of my fellow Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4674	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. poslanik Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4675	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ministers, dear guests, I went out to say a few notes, and if I didn't think I was going out because a few MPs before me had already said that we had received this material too late and we couldn't read it and we couldn't even adequately discuss it or see what it says in it that we could discuss it. But I'll only remind you of a few things I couldn't not go out and not say. Kristos in the Scriptures says that in recent times people will come so capable that they will be able to dematerialize things with their own eyes. I don't think that time has come yet, and maybe it should come soon. So much so, they'll try to be able to convince everyone of something that isn't, and I'll make it clear to you what it isn't. First, what I mean is, here it is said that in this Bosnia everything is good that in this Council of Ministers everything is good that everything works well, but in my opinion there are a lot of two-faced people, because for which Mr. Academyman Matić would resign if it were all good. I am sorry that there is no Mr. Matić to ask him some questions and that he answers us as MPs, which is why and what is the real reason he resigned. Secondly, I want a colleague, i.e. a minister, the future chairman of Zlatko, whom I greatly appreciate, who is a very smart man and who, if he were an individual candidate, I would believe personally gave his vote, that the candidate is in front of the Bosniak people, would also give him a vote, but since he is a candidate of a part of the people there who is one mixture cannot give him a vote. Yes, that I am right you will see, because this Mr. Zlatko and his cabinet will win the battle, but the Dayton Bosnia will lose the war. I certainly say to you, for as you walk, where you think about it, that a minority of at least two nations rule over most. I'll compare the example only Neron who had his MP in the form of horses and whenever the horse entered, everyone had to vote like a horse rope, everyone had to vote, and when the horse came out, so the show was over. What I meant by that. I wanted to say that the minority of the Serb people in this parliament and the minority of Croatia, as I have noticed. As far as Bosniaks are concerned, I wouldn't interpret it, because I'm not sure I should, and it's probably for the Bosniak people as well. 35 Furthermore, I resent what I said at the beginning that we got material at the session itself, that I believe I am Saibaba who can be in one place in three the same places, that he can read 30-page material in a minute, I'm not the one. I am a real man of the people, and I couldn't prepare it nicely so I could discuss it adequately and properly. I also resent the candidate for the chairmanial council of ministers for which he did not consult with the majority of the RS party, which is SDS, might have found some compromise, perhaps in this conversation, the talks would have never been a distraction and I object, I personally know the gentleman, I don't think we're some grandmother horns, if we hadn't been able to talk to us. Since this council of ministers is likely to be elected, at least he would ask that after 100 – 150 days in some countries it is normal 100 and here we are because we are an exceptional product, I will add 50 more days and after 150 days turn to us what is the improvement compared to now that they are chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4676	I thank Ambassador Spasojević. Ambassador Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4677	Dear gentlemen, the delegates, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, I will be very brief. But I couldn't get out, appreciating the importance of this moment for the fate of this state, I say the state of BiH, so I would quote a prominent diplomat who said this in March. I'm gonna paraphrasise him a little bit. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country that is a serious patient, who needs intensive external assistance to survive, and then I replicated as a healthcare worker. I know that for the fate of the patient and its outcome, some internal forces, some reserves, which should be used rationally, are very important for the patient to survive and overcome the disease. I point out that at this point it was very important to include all relevant forces, without any limits, young professional people, experts and to make them responsible for the fate of this country. So every quality is welcome and should be used without any barriers. You know what I'm saying. Connect both space and people horizontally and vertically and make them responsible for this entire space. I'm more of a practitioner and less of a theoretical man and I know how to work and here we listen a lot and a lot of smart things are said here. But we can't take those smart roads that lead us to Europe. Let us now and this new council of ministers, the new chairman, from this day forward, go one way, which leads us to this Europe, where we belong and once take down what democracy we want and which state we want. We here, esteeming new delegates, speak for myself, I think a lot of us think that because we often talk like this. We want brothers to create a state of true European democracy, regardless of party membership. Don't share us like that when we're in executives. As party members of the delegates, we have received citizens' trust, but here we are talking about the BiH state, where it will already become less involved in politics and more real life problems, economics, what is being lived from. Let's talk about that in October of the month in Bucharest there is a donor conference on Regional Stability Pact projects, let's find our place here and finish this already. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4678	I thank MP Buturović, and with this the discussions were exhausted, except for MP Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4679	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am, like you all here today, less closely listening to all these discussions and I can tell you, this is how I express my personal position, not all as black as we've heard today. Someone mentioned three things here today, politics, work and economy. When it comes to our local public, she has so far introduced us, when this segment is about politics and also about the foreign public. I would ask us here, and I hope that this item of the agenda will end properly, that the future Council of Ministers and, of course, the chairman and all of us will turn to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4680	I thank Ambassador Kulenović. Is anyone else answering for word? Thank you. We have concluded this debate with the fact that it is likely for the sake of need and reason that there is a well appointed chairman of the BiH presidency, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4681	Ladies and gentlemen, the appreciation of colleagues, gentlemen of the presidency, gentlemen of the chairmanship, Mr. Šimić, it is quite logical that I cannot agree with everyone who has said that they disagreed with me, because there are a number of those who have said that they disagreed with me because they disagreed with each other, and then I have to agree with some of them in some things. Namely, I'm obliged to remind only of article 115. The Rules of Procedure which speak of the approval and appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers, I have done nothing but do what I am obliged to do under the Rules of Procedure, even in consultation, so that there are no misunderstandings with experts who are just in charge of this and once again we have been through the Rules of Procedure, although it is clear in itself that there will be no unnecessary procedural excursions. After the chairman has read the decision that you have all received, the Rules of Procedure say that the appointed is given the word to explain his political programme. My statement was just, let me put it this way, aimed at being a political programme. The documents, and I pointed out that when I said, probably by more careful analysis or reading or, I can't say by listening again, you can see that I said that the documents that you are, which are largely, are documents that are not, I say, my political programme that needs to be discussed here, but that these are the public documents that we have referred to and I refer to again, as well as the documents that are the Global Framework of Economic Development Strategy, the fight against poverty strategy, and that I don't collect all the documents that I have highlighted, which you have already seen or which are in the procedure in 37 which are very clearly and precisely contained very detailed principles and the development of these principles, which you will later have the opportunity to see. So all those suggestions that went towards not being able to read so much material in such a short time are completely justified. However, once it is said, if I am not mistaken, it is that famous blue book that Professor Matić showed and we talked about, and since it was said to be a secret, I just thought it was not a secret, that it was a public document and we would do well to read it and refer to it and that is what we believe should remain as our framework in which we move. First, I want to thank everyone who has given a large number of very useful suggestions. We heard the Lord, I won't repeat him, although he may have discussed it as well in accordance with this agenda point, but I will try to give at least a few of the answers you've set here, because that's what I'm expected to do. I am taking the opportunity, Mr. Grabovac has asked a specific question, for which Mr. Matić has left and has once again asked that question several times. I think the public on this subject has been given enough answers. Mr. Matić's term of office has expired. He resigned as an act, in which he made it very clear that he was considered compatible with the fact that the law ended as it ended, but I remind you once again, without the intention of opening the controversy about the law. There'll be an opportunity to talk about him. It's one law that we've all been together, and we've learned lessons from it, quite clumsyly in the procedure he pushed himself, and in the end, he came into a position that before the Parliamentary Assembly there was a law that neither the Council of Ministers was sure was ours and to what extent it was ours, or whether it was the Constitutional Commission and Chi, and that's something that we're going to try to correct and not happen to us again. I wanted to say it right here. We should all learn from that together. I believe that we will find ways to reach some electoral law, which is based on the Constitution and which generates enough political will in us to overcome the problems that mean denying some of the rights that are in line with the European orientation that we have identified ourselves for. But the time is ahead of us, and we'll have a chance to say more about it. Also, I thank you, if I don't mention someone by name, to all those who personally gave me support and declared themselves not to vote for me as a prime minister. I think it's an entirely correct relationship and I think it's quite appropriate. I thank them for finding the need to say that for this speaker, but there's no need and I'm not here as a private person and it's perfectly logical that you don't vote for me, even if you think I'm a good candidate, because I didn't come here because someone thinks I'm terribly smart, but because I'm a reflection of a political will, of a political concept, of a political alliance, which they think has a parliamentary majority here and has offered one program. Every separation of me from people and from the whole project is somehow, however, unnecessary. I thank you again, but I want you to correct yourself with the people I'm with that there's no difference between me and other people that I'm going to suggest in what we're here for, and we're together, because of a political change program that we don't need to talk about specifically. Also, this balance sheet, which is before you, which you are given, is actually talking about the state we are in, is nothing but a diagnosis. A diagnosis with several suggestions that were given and that would bind us because we firsted them ourselves. I want to remove every dilemma, when it comes to my non-inviting to the Constitution, a sufficient number of times. I am in my political address repeatedly referred to the Constitution and I note again that everything that I do and what we all 38 want to do together and what we are obliged to do, to respect the Constitution that is such, even if we do not like it, and there is a way in which it improves and upgrades, really builds up, because the legal framework that we have is not complete. We have a mass of laws that are unequivocally non-existent, and that is meant by the word upgrade, and that addition must be in line with the Constitution, and we want nothing else, but in accordance with the Constitution that we build, build up and strengthen the first basis that will define us as a European country and Mr Amidžić, the question of our honesty, you have no reason, I must say, believe me, that we are completely honest in our evolutionary orientation, but we do not possibly agree in some ways as it comes to this, but be convinced that our European orientation should not be questioned from the point of view of honesty or something else. I have to say, I didn't ask anyone to aliminate me, although I realized I was asking to be amnesty. So, no alimony, no amnesty, no I'm asking or asking anyone or we need it. I am obliged to say that in the context of a report on a revision on which this Parliament will have the opportunity to give what it has said, it has been a report since 2000. I mean, I don't see any absolutely no reason that could cause either me or any of us to deal with the continuity of the last 150 days we're either afraid or afraid, on the contrary, we've shown in 150 days that we're willing to go into conflict and to deal with all the irregularities that were part of a system, in the end of the day, and even if the people within that system, we're forced to do so, and that's the way to identify it. If people were criminals, it should be identified and not amnesty and even less alimony. I'm also calling you all together, I've already said that, I'm obliged to repeat, I may have remained unspeakable, but here I repeat here. We are indeed calling on everyone to support the reports in this House, and I have even talked about some concrete projects that we all support these projects in this House and try to achieve even consensus when we do not need a consensus politically and technically, but it is better to achieve a greater number of things by consensus. It is true that I did not consult with the SDA, HDZ, the SDS, when it comes to the Council of Ministers' composition. We didn't do it the last time, because it's perfectly clear that we here in this Parliament, we have on one side political forces that are being supported, and on the other hand we have three parties who are sticking to and with those who are sticking to me I haven't consulted for one simple reason what I thought and the public knows that the political option that we belong to wants to be in the executive power to be without members of the political parties that are a symbol of the rule of this country in the previous period and who have asked me here what we are going to do and what we have done for these four months. I want to remind you, we really don't think it's appropriate to ask us what we did after four months, if someone was in charge of doing something for four years. Let me just remind you that colleague Hadžiahmetović gave very precise data, to remind you, we succeeded, with the help of the current opposition, then the authorities, in five years after the Dayton Agreement, to throw up to 25% of industrial production from 90th to 25% of employment from 90th. For years, or to come to growth, which is called minus one percent, so the growth was minus, but it was borderlinely called growth, if foreign donations were excluded, which were being made here, were in the amounts measured in billions. So, if you subtract those billions, then we grew minus 1%. When you reach those billions, then we come to 25% of where we were in the '90s. Indeed, I did not now consider that my political programme, I refer to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, implies that I explain what we have achieved in these four months. What we have achieved, which is one agreement between us, to try to stop one negative trend and to launch a 39 wheel that was going one way to shut down. A lot more power and energy is basically that wheel stop and some other people are likely to need it. Not because it's gonna be hard for us. It'll be easier after that, but we'll be tired of stopping and it'll take a lot less force for that wheel to start in the first direction when it comes to stopping and that's what we're trying to do. I know very well, and it is not a secret for the people who belong to this political majority that the parties who had about 20 per cent of the votes at BiH level, in the past elections, and I know well that my chance is personal and the chance of a political party that I belong to after a period of 6 or 8 months, so to speak, more popular than 20 per cent in public. It's perfectly clear to me, and I'd love to, and we'd like this to be different if we didn't have to get into this, but I think that because of the responsibility and the moment we're in, we don't see that we had any other alternative but to try to stop that wheel that's going in the direction that I've already talked about. Also, on the question I've been asked directly, how I feel about a partnership for peace. I am obliged to say and repeat, that the Council of Ministers will also do what is in its jurisdiction, but the constitutional framework obliges us to have other institutions and everything I have spoken in this exhibition is aimed at trying as much coordination as possible between institutions, because there is not one institution in BiH or at the level of an entity that can make any serious shift itself and that is what we think we particularly missed, and that requires political will and political culture. Politically, it's easier. It's harder with political culture, it needs to be created, then grown, watered, grown and watered like English grass, and after a hundred years it's different. It'll take us a while to do something like that, but one day we want to be remembered and all of us in this House as people who started the process of watering and cutting grass so that after a hundred years it might look like a carpet to him. We're the generation that we owe to come to a very ugly meadow, though. We're on it. We don't make it into the political exhibition I was talking about, we don't make a distinction between politics and the economy. We believe, so I focused my exposure on some political issues rather than economic issues, and on economic issues is Professor Matić in his exposition that an integral part of our programme could have spoken more than 150 days ago. We now believe that there are sources of a balance between economic and political issues. You see, about ten days ago, it might not be appropriate for me to say this, but I was on a plane saying with my broken arm literally flew, I was somewhere above the Atlantic, and I was taking everything on the list, which I put myself in a position to be eight hours away from the first doctor with my broken arm, and I took a magazine, a prominent, weekly, I read it, and I saw the front page, and it says ten of the worst countries in the world. I must admit that more pain has caused me to list that magazine and fear that I will come upon us. Fortunately, thanks to generous people to us such as Gil Kimion, Sadam Husein, and the other presidents of Sierra, Angola, and the like, we were not among those ten countries. However, there is a small, small article there, which speaks of areas on the planet that are the worst for one kind of people and then says, the worst space to live on the planet, if you are an ethnic minority and in large letters the Balkans writes. So we objectively live in a space where the world thinks that if you're a minority, then you really couldn't have chosen a worse place on the planet than to live here's where we are. That's why I think the focus of my presentation was on political issues. Our political determination is, and, I want every story about deconstituting any 40 who, as the political goal of this alliance, or anyone else, simply can't be placed on the living room, because it's simply not true. We stand deep and I personally and all the people who do this, regardless of which political parties they come from and from which people, that we must do everything to make this, indeed, one country in which all three peoples are equal in all BiH territory, no matter who it is and what it is called, is equal in all BiH territory and does not feel like a minority, anywhere. When we overcome it and have enough correctness for each other to look into each other's eyes, it's so easy to overcome after this so that we don't get any more of the space that's the worst place on the planet to live if you're a minority, and that's so little. It is all political philosophy and I want to very clearly and unequivocally reject any attacks, which in this project we are doing see any attack on anyone, in any part of BiH, as well as in BiH as a whole. It may at some point be thematically speaking, only the thematically viewed minority, and then it must not and that is our political option that I would not want in any way to be identified. When it comes to the question, how many foreign investments will be asked, it is written in all these materials, and we have repeated it from Professor Matić and to me today and Professor Hadžiahmetović recently that direct foreign investment does not depend on any council of ministers, not even on entity government or cantonal nor on the Presidency, but depends on the whole creation, so to speak, a concept that makes a whole and rounded system that is harmonised with all its elements, which is once again in harmony with the Constitution. Also, what we're trying to say here is that it's not true that we're changing all the way to the porter. Please, that's not true. I'm responsible for saying that's not true. And if that were true, that's true. So, yes, everything was changing from the head of the building, regardless of whether the country's presidency or whether it's local to say so by self-service, everything has changed from boss to porter. We are stopping it and I have made it very clear in this address that the law on the state service that should be in the procedure should be abolished and the people we have found are people who will be subject to that law and if it is the first people who satisfy the law to be, they should be offered it, because they are not good, the system is good or wrong, and that is the difference between what we offer. Also, any comparison of historical to the Alijans with some alliances from history, I mean that it's not justified and there's no reason to doubt us that you can have such a thing from us as a fearsome one. I welcome the statement by the HDZ representative here that she has returned to the institutions and I think that it is necessary and that, as it is said, they are vehemently fighting for their views. This is where we need to fight, and I think we're ready to accept something like that and it's our reality, and the prejudge of any findings, anything, I don't think anywhere will come in handy, which is more, which I think we'll all be much smarter when we read the findings that are, at first, in New York, the AIGEM Center has reconstructed the entire content of your discs in the Herzegova Bank since 99th to this day, and everything that's been deleted now can be seen again, and I believe that this finding will bring new light and a lot of things, but it's not the subject of what we said today and all of it needs to be made available to the public. Mr. Spasojević, I have to tell you, I really must tell you, I never thought you were the horned grandmother you couldn't talk to. On the contrary, I think you may be very well spoken to, but I also want to tell you that, we 41 do not represent the Council of Ministers of any form or I come from a party that is any sort of mix. Which doesn't mean we can't talk about it either, but I don't think it was necessary for us to waste time and me talking about it, and it's not normal in this political time that your party and the party I come from are in the same council of ministers, it's just not normal and none of us are grandma horns. You've got the ones you're sticking to. We have those who support each other and that's a huge difference. I agree with Mr Kulenović that we will turn to the economy and we will do it, but in the way I spoke here, now according to the Rules of Procedure, it is now a vote. No matter how much I said someone didn't like it, I listened to a lot of things that someone didn't like, but according to the Rules of Procedure, now is the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4682	I beg you, after this presentation and possible answer to a part of the question. Please, this home is a democratic procedure, not a problem. There's no dilemma at all. So, in addition to this, we can present the candidates for the Council of Ministers Chairman Dr. A Lagumdžija who is certainly intriguing and uniquely seeking answers can be moved to an act of declaration on the appointment of the BiH presidency council of ministers. Please, who is it to be Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, appointed by the BiH presidency, chooses as the chairman of the Council of Ministers? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against approving this appointment? Who's restrained? To announce these first results of the vote, it means of the presence of 40 members of the House of Representatives voted 22 – against 12 and abstention 6. We're moving on to an entity statement. Who is it that's from the RS area to Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija is hereby approved as chairman of the RS Council of Ministers. Who's in? Thank you. Who's in the Federation area to Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija will be appointed Prime Minister's Chairman? So is the entity vote. Seven MPs voted from the RS area – from the Federation of BiH to 15. I find that Dr. O'Brien's appointment has been approved. Zlatko Lagumdžija for the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I congratulate him and wish him much success, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zlatko Lagumdžija. We can move to point b) of point 2. that is Ad.2.b) Approving the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers I am convinced that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is ready to submit a proposal and, in this context, I call on him to read, or to submit a proposal from the Council of Ministers. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4683	I thank Mr. Chairman, I thank the MPs, those who voted for and those who were against and those who were abstentioned, all of you together, because this council of ministers to whom I should be a man, which reflects the will of this Parliament and represents this Parliament as a whole. This time we won't be like last time, hopefully, not making problems that we don't give biographies in detail, because it's practically from my presentation, it's quite clear that it's about one continuity, which needs this council of ministers to reflect, and I'm going to, I think it's prepared, to share the complete biography and names. Namely, for the people who are now, performing the functions of ministers and deputies, I'll just say their names and ministers, or the deputies they're supposed to be doing, without information about them. You've got information about them before, they'll be re-delivered. So, dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović is a candidate for foreign trade and economic relations. Dr. Crescent. Dragan Mikerević is a candidate for the minister of European integration. Mr. Krešimir Zubak is a candidate for the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Gosodin Svetozar Mihajlović is a candidate for the minister of civil affairs and communication and I will act as chairman, or I am a candidate for foreign minister. You know our biographies. You had them last time, so that's why I'm not reading, but it's going to be divided. Candidates for Deputy Ministers, we'll get to that, to read this which is easier because of the biography. The candidate for Deputy Foreign Minister is Mr. Ivan Zdravko, i.e. Ivica Mišić, then the candidate for Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, second is Mr. Milovan Blagojević. The BiH institution's deputy Treasury candidate is Mr. Muharem Imamović. Candidates for Deputy Minister. Deputy Minister for Treasury Gordana Ković's candidate. Candidate for Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Jadranko Prlić. Candidate for Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, second candidate Mr. Nikola Kragulj. Rasim Kadić, candidate for deputy minister of European integration. Dr. Crescent. Zora Marijanović, candidate for deputy minister of European integration. Then, Mrs. Kadrija Haračić – Šabić, candidate for Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Mr. Vladislav Vladičić, candidate Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees as well. Mr Halilagić Jusuf, candidate for Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, Mr Milan Lovrić, candidate for Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications. So these are all the people who have been acting these functions so far. This morning when we talked about it and in the consultations we had, if I'm not mistaken, I forgot to tell Dr. Prlić about it. Jadranko Prlić. This morning I had a conversation with my colleagues and they agreed with pleasure to continue doing this job and I think we're going to do a very good job as a team. This morning I said that once 43 Milan Ribar used to say: “As we are gathered together, take off all of you will play”, in other words everyone who is here still plays on this team. Given, too, their data remains true, the same data they were before, from the year they were born to the birthplace of both nationality and party adjections. So, all the people who came from the parties from which they were four months ago, they are also from these parties, and the candidate for the Minister of the Treasury is a candidate who comes instead of Božidar Matić and at the recommendation of Mr Božidar Matić, who was, by the way, a candidate for the post and when Mr Matić decided whether he would agree to be on this team and whether to choose whether to enter into what was called the mandate for the composition of the former Council of Ministers, it is, therefore, about a candidate who has experience in these affairs. I must say, when it comes to representatives of the international community, I've only been able to exchange information with Mr. Piter Nikola, the director of the Central Bank. I informed him about who this candidate is, because I think it's time for this man to have a conversation with the minister, with a gentleman who is the Director of the Central Bank, and otherwise, all other political consultations were exclusively within the framework of political party leaders and us as people who make up this majority and who we need to do. The candidate is Dr. Ante Domazet, born in 47 in Slovenia, is a Hrvat by nationality. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. He mastered and doctored at the Faculty of Economics at the University of... Strosmeyer in Osijek. By the way, he was at a postgraduate, one-year specialist study in management in the oil business in Italy, at the University of Italy. He's a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Sarajevo, at the... marketing issue. So far, he has published two books and about a hundred scientific and other professional papers. Otherwise, he had a business career, mostly, built in the oil industry. In time, he was Deputy Director of the Refinery Oil in Modrica, director of the foreign trade of Energopetrol in Sarajevo, was Vice-President of Energy for the field of oil and chemistry, when Professor Matić was president of Energoinvest. By the way, he served as president of the International Approval Radio and Television of BiH. The Vice-President is the Chamber of Commerce of BiH and the Circle of Intellectuals 99 and is currently chairman of the Management Board of the Agency for Privatisation in the Federation of BiH, which will leave the post as soon as it is handed over, due to the incompatibility and incompatibility of the functions of the Minister of the Treasury and the chairman of the Management Board of the Federation's Privatisation Agency. By the way, he's married and he's a father of two. This is what I am obliged to say, as a biographical data and it is probably also my answer for which I Malkić not answer that question, because Malkić and I are not family, so I am not obliged to answer it. I made a deal with the family. These are the biographical data of Mr Domazet, who, as I have already said in the exposé, which, in a few months' time, is going to come out with a programme that will determine whether it is realistic to go into the PTC corridor project and whether it can and whether it has the support of this Parliament, i.e. entity governments and the Presidency and other institutions. That's what I'm thanking you for.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4684	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4685	I apologize to Mr. Avdić, Mr. Ante Domazet is not a candidate here for any political party, because he is not a party candidate, that's what I have to say. I think it's not that important, but that's what we need to know. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4686	I thank the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here's Ambassador Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4687	I'm not going to say anything special, I want to ask a question to the College. Namely, when voting on the approval of the appointment of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, it shall be voted by appeal, on the basis of Articles 67 and 67. – 115. bet 2. Not for the reason that I'm going to bring down what was, but just knowing the position we're going to be in tomorrow, someone can call us because we've knowingly violated the business order.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4688	It's okay. The issue is quite in place, but in the transitional and final provisions of these Articles, 66, 67, will apply when the electronic voting system is installed and when we are able to have in full by then rise, i.e. by lifting the cardboard. Take a look at the transitional and final provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Everything's fine in that context, so the choice is perfectly legal. Who's going on with the word? If not, thank you very much. You heard the suggestion. Ambassador Grabovac's intervention please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4689	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, here we are before we voted in favour of the election of the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdžija, we heard that he did not speak with the parties HDZ, SDA and SDS, he is not certain, at least not with, or with representatives, or with a club that has been participating here in the House of Representatives, which certainly represents the will of one of the constituent and sovereign people, which is the Croatian people and says he does not cooperate with parties that were in power before. It is an interesting thing to cooperate and propose those who led those parties, or who decided in those parties. It's a very interesting thing, because probably not working with those parties is labelling parties on them and their past seen by someone black and trying to attribute it to the party. I don't think it's the party's fault, it's the people's fault. Mr. Chairman, when it comes to that part, you are today proposing a part of the people who have been and led that party and who are responsible for both the positive and negative part of the part that you are calling for, which is why you will not cooperate with it. So we think it's here, in the truth. One institutional violence, i.e. one attempt by two majority Bosniak parties, the SDP that certainly has 90% is the Bosniak and party for BiH supported by part of the Serb parties from RS, where in truth it is trying to discredit the position of one of the holders of BiH's sovereignty, which is the Croatian people, who plebiscitely received the support of the Croatian people in these past elections. I think so, the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, will not have an alternative, because it has shown Mr Matić's choice so far, or so far, when we said that there will be no perspective and that there must be no compromise and a government, or the Council of Ministers, where legality and legitimacy will be reconciled. You have the legality, but gentlemen, you have no legitimacy. You do not, because I invite you, on behalf of 45 HDZ, the HDZ Club, to come to the premises of my electoral unit and explain to my voters what you are doing, or to say that those who speak differently are those who do not lead the Croatian people for the first time, that you are the ones who will do it and who will lead, along with those you propose from the order of the Croatian people and then I will believe and then I will believe in the prosperity of both BiH and the future of this ministerial council. Otherwise, this is trying, it is happening and there is an impression, the same when Slobodan Milošević, who is now in The Hague, said that from Kosovo he will represent Albanac Sejdo Bajramović and that Sejdo will decide on the fate of people in Kosovo, and when we return to the situation now, we see what the result is. I believe, personally as a representative and as a Club of HDZ Representatives, that this is another unfair move and if we were in the ndi that this move will be corrected and try to have a normal conversation and see what the problems are. What's wrong with that? Where are those mistakes? If a nation has given its will, it has expressed its will to a political party, MPs, let's not tell a political party, but we have here five MPs representing territories from election units, which represent one of the sovereign and constituent peoples in BiH. We expected that, however, someone would try to talk and see, what is it, what Hvat it to you? What's that you're insolent about, what's the problem? Maybe you're wrong about leadership inside the HDZ, maybe we can say that. Some HDZ people are wrong, but you can't say that the Croatian people are wrong, because by denying the team, the will of the Croatian people is denied. No one has spoken here, if the ones you propose have no legitimacy for the people. The one you propose they led the Croatian Democratic Community. They know that. They're sitting right here. They know what I was like when they were. I'm the same now, I haven't changed at all. They know exactly what I was saying at the time when it was the hardest. If it is in the truth the will of the Croatian people, the people you propose here at the Council of Ministers, then in truth I do not see the future, unfortunately, I do not see the future or BiH, and I also remove responsibility from myself. The responsibility for anything, because in truth I tried everything that could be done to try to fix the situation for BiH to take the right path, which I believe should be part of Europe and that it is part of Europe, but you had to try first, Mr Lagumdžija, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you had to try to talk because it is not true that you said you did not want to talk to the parties because you did not want to talk to them. It doesn't have to mean anything to the parties, but you're talking and you have people who were inside these parties who were alpha and omega of these parties today. Perhaps today these MPs sitting here were at least wondering and not wondering at all. About the weather that bothers you, the time that bothers you, and we thought we could and we should work something out. Here, I call you, because you will choose you have a majority, I invite you to come to my constituency, and that is the Herzegovina County and the Western Herzegovina, and to take these people you choose today, and let them say that what they think is wrong, let them say that they are the result of the will of the Croatian electoral body on the team, or the result of the will of the electoral unit, if they are not able, then we are in error and then we believe that we are going to go one way and therefore we will not vote, and especially one more part of these people and we have indications, and it is about these reports that we have asked today to lead the settlement and we will not vote on it, because we believe that this, in truth, in this way, is another attempt by the majorization of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4690	Thanks to Ambassador Grabovac. The wrong allegation of Ambassador Damir Mašić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4691	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and dear MPs, of course all media colleagues. First of all, I understand this from Mr. Grabovac this address as political marketing, and it's not true that SDP is a Bosniak party at all. You can condition that if you look at the nationality of us nine MPs in front of the party, which is the strongest in this House. At all levels of government, you can also look and, absolutely, I claim that you are definitely wrong and that this is just another political marketing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4692	I thank Ambassador Mašić. Replica, Ambassador Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4693	I said two Bosniak parties, saying that the majority Bosniak party is SDP, not purely Bosniak, 90% I said or 80 don't know either, but I think 90% is a Bosniak party and I don't think it's necessary to run from it at all. Therefore, that part is not at all controversial. Look at the structure, the electoral body, the SDP membership, and you'll see whose party it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4694	Thank you. Ambassador Adem Borić. You've got a story for Borić. You gave up. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4695	For ocular dioptria there is a specialist, we know very well how to say here that the job is done, for the problem of political dioptria, the problem is a little bit more difficult. A kolega Grbovac of arms constantly causes this kind of controversy, where I should now convince him of my political option. On the contrary, I respect your political choice and I try to make sure that you have all the same rights in this House at least as I do. Can I definitely tell you for the sake of both the public and all of you and all the like that, that as a member of the SDP, I don't have that degree of political will that you're talking about. I'm totally looking at the world politically differently than you do, and in that sense, we can stay here. As for the conversation, you want until dawn, but as you of course do your best to make a political choice, let me do it myself. In that sense, when it comes to any of this, I first have a programme to define myself, that I will not associate with that kind of political will when it comes to executive power. The legislative stuff is different. Therefore, we can discuss whether the constitution of the Council of Ministers, executive bodies and all that makes the executive power is on the line of equality on constitutional elements. Whether there are enough Hrvat in a specific case or anyone else, at least I am convinced of that kind of conversation and very much to say that I am nuanced to that extent, but that someone represents himself as an exclusive representative of some people, at least present me more convincingly and my kind of non-accompaniment of politics that you advocate, has nothing to do with my relationship, a quality attitude towards the Croatian people. Can we at least once not have to agree, of course, but can we at least understand each Grabovac about it once, as I don't think that because of your political determination you want anyone 47 minutes... other in the world, but a narcotic, I assume that both of us as two free men will use this democratic right to choose political options, but then let's be aware to say to certain types of repercussion what to whom when they belong depending on the election result. I want to believe in the Alliance programme and publicly say, we will try to be better, let's say for what you are opening up here as a problem for the Croatian people than you are for HDZ, that's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4696	Gentlemen, we are here today to work to create, to tolerate and to be final... If the current chairman of the Council of Ministers for our party tells us that he will not cooperate with it or that I am national or nationalist parties will not cooperate that reflect the will of 50-60% of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we are wondering what that means. Is that diplomatically clever, is that... and is that dilettanteism? Because it's from the common court, from the ordinary diplomatic code and it's not to be said, Mr. Lagumdžija. I told Mr. Tokić here, you know it back ten months. If you communists or the SDP win the election, I will be loyal and I am loyal now. I'll respect you as president of the Council of Ministers, but I can't stand the SDP and the fluids of communism, I just can't stand it. I have reasons and I will never bear it, but I say I want to be a legitimateist, I want to be a man, I want to cooperate, because this people BiH, whether they are Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, etc. Still, I'm asking us to create something to behave somehow. I can, you can hate a single party, but if you're behind the party and you're standing so big and so big and the ipsion of voters and potential and smart, then I hate it or despise the party, or I value that crowd myself. What does that mean? Is that democratic? Is that European, is that civilized? No, and that's what you guys stress. That's for example. in the west of our neighbours as well as a nationalist party, and if we are now to remove these potatoes from the fire, or roots, then we need to know which are extremist parties, which are totalitarian parties, which are parties that have done some evil, etc. But this isn't the place. This is a place to be civilized and to work and to create and act like one. You who are chosen, you now represent me. You represent both voters and HDZ as such. You have to be sensitive and kind to these people. There's no other way, or we'll do something else. And what are we gonna do about it? There are people here who think someone's afraid of someone. No, I don't. That's out. That's completely out of the question. We can only cooperate and be people and build BiH as such as the state. Nothing more and nothing less, and we're not playing with nationalist parties, we're not working together, we're not doing this, we're not doing what it means, it's creating just one poisoned atmosphere and nothing else. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4697	I thank Ambassador Baković. Replica Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4698	I do, we know that the Hrvat are determined, but not those in the truth who want the Hrvat, the will of the Croatian people. We just know, it can be taken when it comes to taxes, then from these areas they need to get the funds here, and when they need to come from those places those who really are the will of the Croatian people, then they are not necessary then we will find someone else. 48 Therefore, you cannot attribute it to HDZ, we can talk about individuals. And individuals of the SDP gentlemen have you today and I say it loud and clear and they know it well and we all know each other well. From this pay phone that wants them to try and talk to me about it, we will make history and ask if it is in truth the will of the Croatian people, who led the Croatian people. If HDZ was wrong, could the people be wrong? He can't. The people can't. How can they now represent again in the name of the Croatian people and have no will. I would respect that any party has over 50% of the Croatian people's will, but 2-3% of the Croatian people's will and appeal to the Croatian people, I think it's something that doesn't border on something normal, something that can't afford a brighter future. Does this mean that these others should be told, because HDZ, the Croatian people have given support to HDZ, and it is all the trouble that individuals in HDZ are not good or bad. What makes you think that's right? One people cannot be destroyed, you cannot create BiH without the Croatian people. Therefore, those who want and those who try such a part and who want through different options and different formulas or by preparing different constitutional committees at Federation level to compromise in the Alliance, I am telling you that you will go the wrong way and it is not good. It's not good, and there won't be any more forces to bring back here. It's not good, because it's a violation of Dejton, it's a constituency of the Croatian people and an attempt to majorise, with the help of individuals who don't have the legitimacy of the Croatian people, and if we open the question of Dejton, there was no one in front of the Croatian people who had the legality and legitimacy of his signature, and we're going to open that question. Who could have said I'd live in BiH like that if he didn't ask me. What were the legal institutions that could or were legitimate representatives who could sign and who could negotiate at all, so let's try to reconcile things. Let's try to reconcile things to move both legality and legitimacy. Nothing will be obtained through the knee and by trying to maintain the chair, nothing will be obtained and I call you Mr. Chairman, take the representatives of the Croatian people you have in the Council of Ministers, bring them to my constituency and let them turn to the people and when they do so, from the members of the Presidency and beyond, and I invite him, too, to turn and say. When they do, when they are accepted by the people, be assured that you will succeed and that you will have no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4699	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4700	Dear gentlemen, I did not go out to deny your wishes, 22 of you, I repeat 22 MPs. You have a legitimate right to choose who you want, but I have a legitimate right to tell the truth. You gentlemen have here today a minister who stands so many voters and sympathisers that I can invite everyone to lunch. You gentlemen are neglecting that 65% of the representatives of the Serbian people and 95% of the representatives of the Croatian people are today majorised. That's how you do it. Just for the record. Let's know what you're doing, because I think there's a practice here of producing a crisis in BiH. It's a practice. Do it, let's toast the people what's going on today, and I'm sure that you, already at the next point as the Alliance, will see if you're going to pass the laws, Mr. Chairman, you're the chairman now, I wish you success, I really wish you success. I'm not for your option. I do not support it, but I would be happy if this option or any other one would trigger BiH from this dead one from this misery of life. We all need life. We have nowhere else to go. We have 49 lives here. Gentlemen, I can't accept this without saying that you're the chairman of today's presidency of Mr. Zubak's office. Tell me his past in this war, what he was, where he was, tell me sir, whether he should answer, at least in command if not otherwise, and he should represent human rights in BiH today. Is that the SDP concept, Mr. Chairman? Is this the concept of gentlemen who voted, yours, aren't you for that concept? I remind all of you who will now raise your hand, of course, democratically to read the text. If you don't have it, I'll give it to you. What Mr. Zubak said in a newspaper that he long ago asked for the abolition of the entity and I literally quote it. I'm looking into your eyes. I have nothing to be ashamed of, sir. If you don't, I'm glad. You requested the removal of the entity. You're advocating the elimination of what was created in blood in these areas. You're defending against what the international community here has accepted as an inevitability and you want to represent human rights. Let them choose you. Good luck. But remember, I will seek yours and the responsibility of everyone else, who at one time represented some of the policies that are being checked today. I was not a representative of those policies, nor was I advocating them. I'm proud of my actions as a politician. I don't know if you are Mr. Zubak. I want to tell you gentlemen, if you continue like this, it's hard for us and if that's the way to co-existence and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4701	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Is anyone else answering for word? Thank you. We're finishing the discussion. Does he have a chairman of the Council of Ministers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4702	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and gentlemen of the Bureau, as I have spoken to the Rules of Procedure at the point before, now in accordance with the Constitution, Chapter V, Article 4 or the Council of Ministers Act, adopted at the last meeting of this Parliament, when we were a parliamentary minority, which we are now most, in accordance with this law, in accordance with Article 6. I have presented to you the proposal. Now my address is in line with Rule 92(3), and if anyone has any objections, they may refer to members 53.4. Especially Article 139.d) which speaks of the Council of Ministers, do not forget to intervene at any time in the debate. However, there is no need for this because it is a gesture of political goodwill. I will now speak, indeed, in a diplomatic dictionary and I fully understand people who have spoken from opposition positions what they have said and I will speak, keeping the dignity and the people with whom I want to work together and the institutions that I represent. I repeat again. I'll do my best to get a manetogram to send to the people who discussed it. Now I repeat if you haven't heard. So, I didn't say I didn't want to talk to any of the parties, I even spoke to one of the parties, Mr. Spasojević, about how I wanted to talk. On the contrary, I will, and we always will. We are obliged not to talk, but I made it clear that when it comes to the constitution of the SDP executive power, he was not ready to do so in '96. It's not '98. Like you weren't ready to talk to us in '96. It's not '98. It makes sense that you weren't ready because neither are we. Which was why. For any kind of relationship, it takes two sides. We repeat once again, I want to, I urge you to talk, to cooperate on every joint project as much as possible, but allow in the executive power every right legitimately that after having a parliamentary majority in accordance with the Constitution of a country, it forms power with who it wants. It would be hypocritical to tell you right now, wouldn't it be 50 hypocritical if we talked to you? Well, like who they'd give, so you say so, so we say we don't like it. No, it doesn't matter. You have excellent people and you are very high-quality MPs – MPs, a great number of you. You're more often classed than we do with ideas that are worse than our own, but it's all part of a parliamentary game that we have to talk to, so once again, I have to say, too, that I don't hate any party, I don't even hate any man. It just can't fit in me anymore, even if I wanted to. I never needed to do that. We must all, and therefore, please don't use each other's words in which we ad-hoc hate parties here—the people don't have it. I'm responsible for telling you in my own name, I don't hate any party, not even one man as much as I disagree with him here, but I have to say, for the sake of the policies that are being checked. There are policies that are being checked in The Hague, and we have said that we will work very clearly and precisely with the Timings and should be checked in these places. These policies must go away and that is very clear and clear for us. I am obliged to say for harsh words, truly diplomatically, I apologize, this is a moment when I would like to be an opposition, so I will say diplomatically, but indeed every comparison of us to Slobodan Milošević, such a comparison of the people in the Alliance with Sejdo Bajramović, is the least bit tasteless. At least I'll use that little word. What you just said to your colleague Grabovac isn't even tasteless anymore, it's not even tasteless anymore, it's even getting decutive, it's being rude. You see, and I'm bound to say that's not right. At the very least, I'm today, first I heard you say it once, and then I saw you say it again. I heard and saw a miracle. Three minorities, you claim to be the three majority. Every single majority of that people, and when you put together three majority, and we represent three minorities, now that those three of your majority meet and three of our minorities meet, you will now see a miracle. Fifteen days here at this pay phone you've been saying that we're going to have to resign, that you're new that we're old, etc. I heard about the miracle now. That's what they say, I'm told, I'm holding your ders. Well, I've been listening to it all over again. Now you'll see a miracle. How the three minorities, when they get together, are greater than three majority, who get together, and again I will listen to you on parliamentary matters, because again according to the Rules of Procedure, the constitution, the law as I have stated by Article 92.3. I thank you on behalf of the candidates at your vote, both those who are against, so to those who are for and those who are abstentioned and I repeat once again, we will all and myself in which you have said that we are Milošević and Bajramović and everyone else, even to the people you have said that you are, as it is said here, cannot be wrong by the people. That's right, he can't. I'll have a party. Wrong HDZ and people left HDZ. When the wrong party of their people went away. Some people will leave my party when I'm wrong, etc. It was a parliamentary game. So this is the answer to your question and call once again to cooperate in the interests of the citizens of this country in the interest of all three equal peoples, and I invite you to answer to your voters for which you did not establish power in these counties in accordance with the election results when no one bothered you and that you called me to go there and for months you obstructed and did not establish a hair with the voters you are responsible for. When and when I get a call from your mayor, the President of Canton - County, I will be the Minister of Foreign Affairs and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers very gladly come and just give the topic. I want to work on the welfare of all the people of this country, not just 20% of the people who voted for the party that I belong to. On the contrary, I am obliged to work in the interest of all. I am responsible for telling you, I want you to cooperate, I want you to communicate further, I want you to work for the benefit of all people and I invite you to cooperate and I urge you to refrain from these people who are tried in the Hague along with their policies and comparison of any of us with them and their historical pawns. I thank you, Mr. Chairman... 51
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4703	Thank you. 67rd point 3. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4704	I do not allow 65% of the RS voting body to be called a minority in my presence and it is called a miracle.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4705	Another false allegation. poslanik Ljubić, vice chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4706	Dear MPs, distinguished gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, I thought I was not discussing or in the interest of not complicating the matter, in the interest of the citizens of BiH and now and in the interest of BiH and the citizens of BiH, I prayed that we would not use these combinations of these majority and minorities in the future. You know most and minorities. If we look at the members of the Hrvat order, we will look only at which parties they are from, and we will gather and see where the minority is and where the majority is, but it is more important to me that this Council of Ministers, regardless of which I do not have to support it, but I am glad to succeed, because in 8 months later, a new one comes and I hope that then it will be different and the concept that it will be accepted that the Council of Ministers will simply and that Council of Ministers supports a slightly larger number. So, I'm opposed to hard words, because I'd suspect right away, it's about most and minorities. We know that after these elections in 2000, someone made both the majority and the minority and tailored and in the end we are here where we are, because someone simply collected and subtracted votes and shared mandates. I am therefore saying, regardless of and if I do not support the Council of Ministers, I wish him success, certainly in the interest of all of us who live in BiH and who BiH want to be our own country and who we consider to be our own country, but I am telling you once again on the conscience, take care of all the ends of all the citizens about all the peoples, simply in the interest, because, regardless of your support or support, you are the Council of Ministers who we need to respect and who are going to propose laws and I think you should think carefully about what electoral law to offer, precisely in terms of this, not most and minorities, because I say most of them, when looking at one side, can take different methods of work, besides those we take, so I say, you are our council of ministers, no matter who will support you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4707	poslanik Grabovac, is there a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4708	I'm sorry that this was caused, but Mr. Lagumdžija, you've caused this whole storm, by mentioning it when it comes to the party, because I don't feel guilty and I don't feel guilty and that's why it's part of it, and you need to know that it's not a minority. The Croatian people below are not a minority and should not be placed in a combination of any kind and where and whether there will be a minority or there will be no minority. Secondly, I don't need to invite you, I hope you have a tour by your promotion or by your resolution ministers a tour of the area, including the area of the county where my constituency is and I hope that you will come here together, given the current political situation, 52 and the economically difficult situation, which is located. My role as a representative is at my disposal, and when it comes to The Hag, beware that someone from your ministries would not find himself in The Hague and probably will, and you don't need to be afraid when it comes to this part that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4709	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. With these interventions and incorrect allegations are complete. I ask you who it is to approve the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against not being approved? Thank you. Anybody got any abstentions? I thank you for this first round of voting. We can report the results. Of the 40 MPs present, 22 voted against 13 - 5 MPs with abstention. It is necessary to hold an entity vote. Who is from the RS area to elect the Council of Ministers? Thank you. Who's from the Federation for the Council of Ministers' Selection? We also have that from the Federation of Votes 15 – from the RS area voted for 7 – which allows me to conclude that the proposed Council of Ministers is approved by the House of Representatives and I wish them successful and happy work in the coming period and in this context we expect more radically significant results on the well-being of both the citizens and the peoples of BiH. The college proposes a break by 4:30. We continue the work of the 12th session of House of Representatives point 3. Ad. [[PAUZA]] 3. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on amendments to the Amendments Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH has been working as a commission and you have a report ahead of you. I am convinced that you have received and the College has not reached agreement on these three amendments by the Commission on Human Rights and Refugees. In this context, it is quite clear that the business policy is going back to the vote on interpretation, going to vote on entities, and if at least two-thirds of each entity's area is against it, simple amendments have not been adopted. It's a very clear position, and in that context, last time we had a parliamentary majority, but we didn't have an entity majority. Since the report is quite clear. The college couldn't agree and we can move on to the voting act. Who is opposed to the RS area to the amendment I to the Commission on Human Rights and Refugees, which provides for Article 2. The bill's been deleted. Who's against it? We're asking who's against the RS area? Who's against the Federation of BiH? Thank you. So, from the RS area we have 10 MPs who voted against this amendment and in that context two-thirds of the 10 amendments did not pass. It is Amendment I. 53 amandman ii that says. In Article 5, at the end of the second paragraph, it adds a new sentence, which reads for the first six months, providing returnees with compensation at the level of the average monthly basket per household member. We wrote it in the report. The initiative, as if not human and moral and every other relationship and responsibility towards these people, is not a questionable House of Representatives. It is a disputed financial engineering that provides for such implementation of this Article of Amendment II, and in this context we have put our opinion here. We're going to vote, but the President of the Commission if there are any additional arguments to let him go. That's a fact. The President of the Commission is just a vote here. We've finished the debate, we've said all about the amendments, etc. Who is against the adoption of Amendment II from the RS area? Who is against the Federation of BiH to adopt Amendment II? Niko. I again find that against 11 MPs from the RS area and Amendment II has not been adopted. Amendment II to Article 12 The bill is deleted. It was also amendment III of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. Who is against the RS area to adopt this amendment? Who's against it? Who is against the Federation of BiH? There's no one here. I also find that 11 MPs from the RS area were against this amendment and in this context, finally Amendment III of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum did not receive the necessary majority of the House of Representatives, and in this context the amendments were not adopted. We can now move to the vote of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, normally accepting this statement previously. Who is it to adopt this law? Who's in? Who's against this law? Who's restrained? Thank you. We need to check the entity majority. Who is from the Federation's area of adoption of this law? Who's in RS to pass this law, who's in favour? We have an identical situation. We have a feeling like last time. Of the 38 MPs present for the law voted 24 against, there were 11 – abstention 3. The entitetski majority didn't win. It was for Federation 21 and RS 3. So, the law did not get an entity majority and has the same situation again, meaning it is going to a compliance level at the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' College. Thank you for this statement. Moving to point 4. Here you go, Mr. President. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4710	Honorable presidency, distinguished colleagues, I know it is not usual to take after the vote on whether, when the vote is finished to talk about it, but I really can't help but say what I feel deep in my soul. We've had the chance to pass this law that the exiles are waiting for like thirsty water in the desert. However, there is not enough political will to do so properly. The Human Rights Commission has adopted the amendments for the first time in its two sessions, the second time with all votes against them. I said it last time, and now I'm gonna do it again. The amendment on the minimum existence basket for six months means a lot. I know that it's easier for the ministry and the government not to have that basket, and I know that it's the easiest thing for the minister to get out of the budget and secure and be calm. But it's not clear to me that you can't find and make an effort to add funds, since I know, I know there have been donor conferences and there's been a donor conference in Do... and it's been prepared downstairs to get about $132 million. After the delegation went down, there was 10 if that's what the Alliance brings as a change, I have to ask. Here, you see, after the appointment of the new chairman of the Council of Ministers, the first vote in the Alliance falls to the Alliance of Votes. Did you see that now? I want to say that I am sorry, I am sorry that we are not in a situation that we are not in a position to do what is right for the benefit of the citizens of BiH and it does not work what was declared to be working half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4711	I take your word and goodbye.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4712	You have no right, I'm done, and you have no right to take my word for it when I'm here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4713	You cannot take advantage of the kindness and the simple responsibility of this college. Ad.4. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport – first reading Do we have a report from the Commission? We do. I'm opening a debate - first reading about principles and post... of this law. President of the Lozančić Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4714	Mr President and gentlemen MPs, I will be quite brief, given that all MPs have received a report from the Commission and have previously received a bill, a proposal, a draft law, or a proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport. I must tell you that the draft law on international and inter-entity road transport by the Council of Ministers, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has examined the law and established that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of that law. The Commission for Transport and Communications met on 9 and 10.7 and examined the proposed law. She received amendments from MP Abdurahman Malkić 31 amendments 55 to the Commission's work adopted 18 amendments annexed to the report. I must also point out that two amendments have come within the deadline by the PDP-SD-SD-DSP MPs' Club from Republika Srpska. This law has been in the process for a long time, and it has also come to the House of Representatives in the past and has never received a green light and has not been adopted as a proposal in this House. This time, the Commission has done everything in its power to discuss it, and I would have ended it, given that everyone has a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4715	I thank the President of the Commission. I'm opening a debate on reading the law in question on international and international road transport. Who answers the question of principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4716	Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, I support the initiative to pass one of these laws, a law that treats issues that are not regulated at all at the state level. We have a case that various carriers enter BiH on various grounds – our carriers cannot come out of BiH any more unless we have, eventually, some bilateral agreements with some of the states. In particular, it's a case of transportation, transportation of goods. In order for our country to integrate into the internal market of the European Union, which is our goal, i.e. to join the Council of Europe, it is necessary that, in addition to other laws, the transport law is passed in road and road traffic, both internally and internationally, normally, which will not be contrary to the directives. However, it seems to me that the proposed solution comes a little out of the framework of the European Economic Community Directive and, above all, a directive on the basis of which it can be entered into the European common market. In particular, the Directive relating to the authorisations for the occupation of road hauliers and Directives 7-4/5.6.2 of the European Community on the approval of the interest of road passengers on domestic and international transport. In fact, it is trying to allow someone to deal with both international and domestic traffic beyond European standards in order to meet the conditions. From that point of view, I have put 31 amendments to the proposed law, where I have tried to bring a few of some standards closer, in line with these directives, and it seems to me that the proposer didn't have enough time, or he didn't pay enough attention to those proposed amendments, and I'm not surprised that we here today and we don't have anyone on behalf of the promoter. We have members of the Council of Ministers present, it seems to me that no one has taken the floor before I speak to the Commission to explain the basic elements of the law. I would not have elaborated these amendments now, but here I am asking that the Proposer, probably had the opportunity to see, or you to read the amendments and ask the College to which I have sent the amendments to be taken over suddenly by the Commission and I remain with all 31, regardless of which Commission I was present, accepted some 17th. I think there is still a minimum, at least 7-8 amendments that are necessary to accept that the proposed legal solution would have its final purpose. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4717	I thank Ambassador Malkić. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4718	Dear gentlemen, the proposed law does not respect the reality that we have a Ministry of Transport and Communications in the RS, this is particularly true in this law, the bill's proposal, when it comes to issuing licences and issuing, to say bringing carriers into the situation of further unnecessary costs. The fact that this law, as well as some previously submitted, regardless of respect for the situation that there are ministries at entity level, wants to transfer at any cost to BiH level, until the text of the law agrees with the existing organisation of the RS government and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the SDS Club will not be able to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4719	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. We have representatives of the Council of Ministers here. Does the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications feel the need to say a few words?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4720	The Council of Ministers delivered to Parliament a law that was agreed on by a working group that was so composed that representatives of entities and one and another entity participated in the task force. Of course, it has been a long time since this alignment lasted, and the existing structure in BiH and in one entity and another, but one such law was thought to have been passed at BiH level and a high degree of consent was reached. The proposed amendments addressed by the MPs were also considered by the Commission that we could accept those amendments that the Commission had accepted and proposed to Parliament. So we remain under the proposed law and accept the proposed amendments that the Commission has adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4721	I thank Mr. Minister. Ambassador Damir Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4722	I just want to tell Mr. Mirko Banjac that in Article 3. The BiH Constitution in the competencies and relations between BiH institutions and entities under point I) also includes regulating inter-entity transport.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4723	Ambassador Banjac, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4724	I understand the need for people to talk, but I didn't say what the boy was talking about. The boy read a part of the text, I understand that, but the honourable MP, I 57 spoke about the problem of relations between the ministry at the level of the government and the foundation that is present in the government's organisation of the RS and the fact that at BiH level there should be a ministry that has jurisdiction over the activity, but I was talking about mutually coordinated relations where the ministry skips. Of course, by that, I wasn't talking about what he was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4725	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and guests, there are some new moments here since me and my colleague Malkić – colleagues by profession, however, I did not follow this law much, since I am not on this committee and we all know that there are a lot of obligations on the basis of other commissions, so now I am in one dilemma, if we are going to pass the law, and he is not looking at us, to tell us in this wider environment, then I think we are making an unnecessary effort. So at this point, I'm not sure what's good and what's not. However, I would say a few words, given that the club has also tabled amendments to this part of the amendment adopted by the Transport and Communications Commission and explained some things. Since entities already have developed relationships, i.e. they have the Ministry of Transport and Communications, they have some already certain movements in this, here's how familiar I am, because that's exactly what I'm talking about, let's say in the field of RS it's done, something already done, a few license checks, which really, as provided for by the License Review Regulation, need to meet European requirements, meaning, in addition, regular technical examination and device, a licence technical examination, for example, must possess engine power measurement devices at the edge of the points when a vehicle from BiH, or an entity is heading west so that it does not come up and simply cannot carry out its task. One such device, depending on the manufacturer, costs from several hundred thousand to a million marks if it is a quality device. I think at this point you're offering some jurisdiction and you're already investing money and it's hard to still fund and I don't think it's a big deal. If such a licence technical examination is agreed that it can do so and does so at a European level, then for which to transfer certain competences. In addition, the law provides for a competent ministry, i.e. competent inspections at BiH level, and this needs to be considered because entities have republican, i.e. I still think of some municipal or cantonal republican road traffic inspectors. So when it comes to regulation, this should be done by harmonising regulations in order to improve the situation in this area, respecting the already existing level of organised traffic system in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4726	I thank Parliamentarian Bilbia, it's about first reading and absolutely law as you know has not yet been adopted. The first reading assesses the settings, the fundamental principles of the law, and in this context, the law is absolutely not yet in the form in which it should be adopted. Whether we have a minimum political will to adopt the first reading and to leave for the next session the possibility of interventions of amendments or 58 amendments to the amendments of the Commission that have adopted and in this context we will partially overcome this situation. The law, however, is necessary at BiH level to respect the decentralisation of government and the uniform relationship between state and entity, it is quite clear. Who's next to the word? There's no one else. First reading, does not mean that the law is passed and remains the possibility that in the second reading we can define ourselves to the end definitely. Can we move on to the voting act? Should we take a brief moment in terms of consultation? First reading. Who's to adopt the first law reading? – Provo read remains the possibility that we can plead. New amendments, component – first reading component. We're only talking about principles now. There are no amendments. It's okay. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Should I do it again? There's no dilemma. Who's against it, I apologize? - against 10 Suspensions, how many were there? No one is there. They don't vote. We have 5. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It is clear that we must also hold an entity vote. Who is from the RS area for this law? – first reading Who is from the Federation area for this law – first reading? Thank you. We have a situation where we do not have the necessary entity majority from Federation 23 – from RS – 3. There's no alignment after first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4727	The procedure in accordance with Article 95 of the discussion on members, so we haven't conducted that debate on members... if the House so decides. If the House does not so decide the proposed law is considered rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4728	The first reading did not receive the necessary entity majority. These principles of this law according to the logic of the matter The Pslovnik of Procedure should go to the College as a commission to try to agree and to go to the next sessions for a second reading and consideration and adoption of amendments, if I interpret the Rules of Procedure in the right way.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4729	Can I, I don't have the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure, can I just help? We're supposed to settle the discussion of principles now. Afterwards, the House should declare whether it accepts the debate on individual members. If he doesn't accept it, the law is considered rejected. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4730	Unfortunately, I'm an engineer and I'm simply going to have to discuss the amendments when you haven't adopted the principles of that law, so basically we've rejected a law that doesn't satisfy the fundamental principles of being a law. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4731	Dear gentlemen, it is really not clear to me, in the Rules of Procedure it is quite precise that it is possible in the first reading when voting on principles, if it is noted that the law will not pass, to request an additional report from the Commission, which you did not do before the vote. It's too late now. I don't know why we're so easily getting into the rejection of everything, if it felt like there were some things to be agreed on, and they could agree on what wasn't done? I don't know if business, boy, don't laugh. You gotta get involved. You're young. If there's a business opportunity to see that it's complemented to get the text of the law, that's why I came out. Let's see, it would be a good idea for the College to take a little break to see if there's a possibility that we're just not rejecting the law. There's a possibility of an extra one.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4732	The first reading did not receive the necessary entity majority. The only possible foothold is that the first reading received by the parliamentary majority and did not receive an entity majority is that the College tries to agree and come out for the next House of Representatives session with the possibility of agreeing or not agreeing or not agreeing, simple views on this law and in this context it is the same procedure. So we're leaving an opportunity for the next House of Representatives session. Can we do that? We can. We're also using this business opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4733	Dear MPs, the SDA MPs' club had serious objections to the principles of this law. We were afraid that even these principles as they were now speculized into the law would not pass and we did not bring them out. So they wouldn't get complicated because we believed the Alliance had the necessary majority to pass the law. If you're going to put it back on then we're going to send these principles that are serious to the law later to fit in evenly, but it's really bitter taste that the Alliance only works when it's filled with human beings, not when the law needs to be passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4734	We agreed, there's a business possibility and a clear way out of this situation. The college is obliged as a commission to simply try to agree and respond to the next session. There's no dilemma at all. Thank you. Ad.5. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the year 2000, the Finance Commission and Budžet, Commission President Sasivarevic. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4735	In accordance with Article 26i 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure, the BiH Official Messenger, number 2.00 of the Finance Commission and the Budget of the House of Representatives, placed a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2000 at its 137th session. That the BiH Presidency delivered 5.7. To the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to discuss what we are delivering the next report. The Commission has identified the following irregularities based on the execution of the budget by the budget user as well as the shortcomings, i.e. irregularities, of the report itself. There has been a two-month delay in delivering reports on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the 2000-year BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. There is a discrepancy in the performance indicators of the budget for individual users and between the indicators of the report and the indicators in the reports of the Audit Office for audited users. Total expenditure for the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Over-the-counter budget spending has been observed in a number of budget users in some cases and over 100%. The Commission considers that, given the above findings and the overall situation, the activity of the Financial Institutions Audit Office is justified in revising the financial operations of the BiH institutions, whose mandate is to be treated as a accompanying part of this report. The Finance Commission and Budget proposes the House of Representatives to adopt a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2000, with the following conclusions: To ask the Council of Ministers to take measures to ensure future budgetary spending in the budgetary frameworks, in accordance with the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH. To be asked by the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers to take measures to ensure future delivery of reports on the execution of Budžet, in line with the deadlines set by the Budget Law. In line with the Commission's position on the findings of the audit reports, as accompanying parts of the budget implementation report, the Finance Commission and the Budget will make concrete recommendations to the House of Representatives in September, following an analysis of audit reports for individual budget users, with such activity continuing on a continuous basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4736	I would like to thank the President of the Finance and Budget Commission, along with these conclusions, for having discussed the Budget Report. poslanik Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4737	In the first part of today's work, I didn't want to report, so I wanted to contribute 61 in any way to establish the Council of Ministers in order to work BiH towards the desired goal, as we all stand together, normally with different ambitions and different interests. But in view of this item of the agenda, in order to show really this will that it exists, we have a unique chance, in this sense I support the Commission's report in the first part, by having objections to the measures proposed by the Commission here to the Parliamentary Assembly. In fact, if it is true, and I believe that there have been irregularities found by this commission, then we are responsible to show to the citizens of BiH that we are determined to make these mistakes right. Namely, all the spices that gentlemen here do behind this pay phone, and at the same time in violation of the Budget Act, as a basic and basic act of this state, then all those who did so falsely swore to this speaker in such matters. In a conversation with the members of the Commission, in the report that we have received, we see that OSCE representatives have given great help to this committee to come to a report like this which, in the Commission's opinion, is not complete for justified reasons, I would say, because it was impossible to do everything and bring it to an end at this point. Since this is because OSCE representatives have given great assistance, it is my suggestion that, in addition to the state auditor, or as the Financial Institutions Audit Office stands here, the review of the financial operations of BiH institutions in which I do not have any negative attitude towards these people in advance, but in order to bring this to an end, I suggest that we reach a conclusion and ask the OSCE representatives to get involved in this matter by the end and at the relevant time as possible, without prejudicing some of the things we do not respect, but we get a real picture of the whole situation and complete insight into the spending and spending of BiH's budget resources. Gentlemen, if we're not ready to do this, then we're really clear on all our false oaths on behalf of this unfortunate people living in BiH. If we do not have enough power to see BiH ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina spend funds. Did they spend it on purpose? What kind of irregularities are these? Where did the money go? Then we really can't expect the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to trust us to do this to someone else. I ask you in this sense, in addition to the state auditor involved in this, to conclude that OSC experts are actively involved in this and to assist the state auditor and commission of our Parliament. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, on this proposal, that I have the right to ask Parliament to plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4738	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. Once again, the President of the Commission, Sasivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4739	I'd just like to clarify some things here. Whether counterpart Mijatović has not read it correctly, or not to mention the fact that this is the 2000 report. The second thing, if the report is for 2000, cannot be called by ministers and the Council of Ministers. The second thing of the OSC helps to work on the development of audit reports for 3 ministries, not for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, the Commission's opinion is on the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not on the revision of the 3 ministries in which the OSC participates in the drafting of the report. I just wanted to make it clear that it wasn't and not to ask for 62 help from the OSC to help the state auditor with these reports. I think our appointed state auditors and two assistants are professional and there is no need to doubt their report at all. You know, but colleague Mijatović, this is a 2000 report on the spending of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budgets, not ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4740	I thank the President of the Commission. Replication, clarification.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4741	Okay, let a colleague explain it, but I'm still staying with my claims and my proposal. In fact, we cannot, in these measures, ask Mr. President of the Commission to ask the Council of Ministers to take measures to ensure future budgetary spending in budgetary frameworks in accordance with the budget implementation law. So we can ask them to follow the law. Look, they're bound to obey the law without our warning. What kind of ministers are they if they don't respect the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for God's sakes, brother? As an MP, I don't agree to this formulation. Furthermore, to be asked by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers to take measures in order to provide future reports on the implementation of the budget, etc. It is their legal obligation that they must respect, not now that we are looking for some security measure and ask God what else to do in order for them to comply with their legal obligation to bring here by law within the prescribed time limits. What else do we need to force them to do besides give them the confidence to enforce the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina as we have brought them, we need to force them to do so, etc. May this also be for the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have concluded that there have been irregularities, besides the fact that it has been by the ministries. I wouldn't run away from the proposal that the representatives of the OSC help us with that. I said, and I made it clear in advance that I have no negative claim against people who are auditing the state auditors. But I also said that, and you admit that OSC experts have helped you to come to such conclusions. Why do we have these experts, here's the whole world we're calling for to help us. We've been discussing here since this morning, and we've been getting involved about who's going to be more fake, I'd say court the international community. Niko one slows the need for an international community in these areas. It is necessary and necessary for us gentlemen. And why do you avoid helping the international community here? Do you want me to tell you why you're avoiding international community assistance here? Because you're afraid or not, we're afraid to reveal thieves in our own ranks. So if it's going to help the international community, I truly believe it will, which you're afraid of. To help us right where we need him. Because when we seek the support of the international community in those forms in which we are all declaring ourselves and on which we have spoken since the morning, but we will not remember the next - international community cannot help us without our active participation in all these things. Look, the international community gave big money in Bosnia and Herzegovina. She didn't steal that money, she gave it well on purpose. And now the representatives of the international community of misery entertained them to find that money. We know that, but we won't admit it here. The Interpol team came to Bosnia and Herzegovina, gentlemen. So 63 now we're afraid to help us with this thing. I want to make a statement about it, so we'll see who's afraid, who's not afraid. I'm sure I'm not afraid.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4742	poslanik Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4743	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, obviously we've now mixed up two things here. Here is the item of the agenda Report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget for 2000, and we also said we agreed on this parliament to leave the auditor's findings for September. Why, I'm speaking now, I'm asking you as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee. Why did we ask Parliament to remove this? It's not because we're afraid of the international community, or because we're not asking for help, but because we're looking for help in that area. And the dynamics of the Finance Commission and the budget were agreed with them and we even asked them to come, if I remember correctly, the President of the Commission follows me, somewhere between 10-14th, to gain insight into our report before it comes to this Parliament. But here I want to say the following. Me and when I went out for this payphone, proposing that the agenda number seven be removed from today's review, I said the following – you will have a clear, you will find the audit office. It's our institution, so her finding for us is what's true and there's no doubt about it. Don't expect the Commission to judge or arrest. Please expect from the Commission proposals on how to improve the work so that this is no longer happening to us in the coming period. The Commission deals with other words, the future, and the Office for the Review of the Past, what has happened to us and what has happened to us. I fear when the Commission makes a proposal for a conclusion, we will see how this Parliament will react. I wouldn't talk about that part in advance. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4744	I would like to thank Ambassador Vilić. Is anyone else answering for word? A few words like this, I'd say. This is ladies and gentlemen, MPs and colleagues and honored guests, I would like to highlight a few of my thoughts. The Commission has made its report very seriously, but according to the Commission report and its observations, I absolutely cannot vote for this report. Because it would simply be against principles that are simply fundamentally guaranteed by a democratic procedure. What does that mean? Overconsumption of spending has been observed in a number of budget users, and in some cases over 100%. Does that really make it possible for me to vote for this report? And in what context. The audit works on certain ministries. The first results of the audit indicate the objectivity of this report, which means absolutely. I haven't even consulted a political party that I belong to, etc. but an objective report, which reminds of a kind of irrational behaviour in the Council of Ministers in the past 2000, the irrational spending of funds and forgetting on the fundamental principles of financial business and financial discipline, I as a person cannot cast my vote and in this context I will vote against, no matter how my party votes. So they absolutely cannot accept the budget implementation either, means the report, or the Commission's report to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Thank you. Please, Deputy Chairman Mirjanić. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4745	I'd beg on behalf of the club break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4746	Ten-minute break. We continue with the session on the agenda is the 5th item of the agenda Report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions budget for 2000. Here's a proposal from the Members' Club asking for a break, agreed with some other political parties. Here you go, colleague Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4747	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Club has requested a break in order to find a solution for item 5 on the report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2000. Since the report found that it is indeed a sum of the fact that we say it is the final account, that it cannot be changed etc. We propose that first of all, we find that the Commission that submitted the report, that it had done a big job and that it should certainly be appreciated, one serious approach to this one important issue, and the Club proposes that it would be good and we ask that MPs wait for it, that we accept the report, that we take it into account, so to speak as the first stage. As a second phase to wait practically for the audit office to complete a report covering all the institutions that need to be covered, you know that these are now only 3 ministries and that, then, and the Finance and Budget Commission would practically propose a full report to this Parliament and we would be able to make this clear. That would be the club's proposal, and I think it would be very good for the MPs to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4748	I thank Ambassador Gligorić. Is anyone picking up? Ambassador Ramiz Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4749	He would ask MP Gligorić not to consider this a replica, because the two of us, both members of the Finance Commission, were not present with the circumstances of Mr Gligorić when we discussed this topic. We have concluded on the Commission that the revision of these 3 ministries is a sufficiently representative sample so that, on the basis of this, the Commission can draw valid conclusions, i.e. proposals to this Parliament. We consider it counterproductive. Let the office do its job, but it would be good if the office took some of the current issues right now. To look at what happened up to 1-3, are we making maybe the same things we did in 2000? It may be spent again, if I don't say the opposite to the law and budget implementation, etc., and I'm going to answer a little bit of discussion about this 1-3 report, so I wouldn't want to owe it right now. But I don't think I should, I agree and should accept the Commission's proposal to accept this report on the implementation of the 2000 budget. But it shouldn't wait for a full review so that only then does the Finance and Budget Commission react, but it should react according to these three reports. That's it. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4750	I would like to thank Ambassador Vilić. Ambassador dr Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4751	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you see this, this report on budget implementation, it's a purely vault report of what kind of change has happened and it needs to be adopted. It's numbers we can't change at all. Whether, on the basis of this report, Mr Grabovac says, on the basis of this report or reports, whether the Commission, or certain recommendations, needs to make conclusions based on these relevant indicators, this is a second matter and this is the Commission in particular, this commission will have to be taken into account since I am the first Vice-President of the Budget and Finance Commission. It will have to lead, and these know who are making and not respecting the budget in implementation now that we, as the Commission, will have more stringent measures for them in the rebalance of the budget. Then they will come to the wallpaper and see that they should have been transparent to this budget committee. I therefore propose the same thing to adopt the implementation of the budget and that there is no need, it is a vault report that needs to be adopted, these are exact figures, and that these recommendations are accepted by the Commission. This should now be in phase these 3 laws to us OSC, uh, one, that will show, we know how to form anti-corruption teams, so those who deal most with corruption, then stop that fight against corruption, etc. It's now the second pair of freaks, which will show final conclusions. Will there be some responsibilities in the former ministerial council of this, that, all of that, then, when it's definitely made up? She may be engaged and the organs of the MUP. We cannot reconsider that until we have concrete conclusions that are accurate, accurate, and clear. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4752	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Mijatović. To bring this to an end. We have two proposals, one Commission proposal, the second proposal is a parliamentary club mixed with Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4753	Gentlemen, what you're saying is undeniable. But that's not enough. You know. The naked numbers that have been spent, they can't be fixed. We know so much. But the measures you're proposing are not to say the bad ones either, but they're not enough, you know. You speak as economists, and I speak as a lawyer, gentlemen. Read the Budget Implementation Act. Is there any sanction for those who do not respect the law on budget implementation? As far as I can tell, there's not one of them. And what are the negative, possibly negative consequences for these people, if I'm, I'm building up, the revision finds that there's been a failure, what are you going to do in that case? I was also explicit when I said it was the legal obligation of those authorities and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and Treasurys. Is that what they did, gentlemen? What did the report not send within the deadline provided for by the Budget Implementation Act? What does the Commission foresee? I ask those questions. If it were the conscious people that are represented behind this pay phone, they would have done so within the time limit that the law imposed upon them. However, they did not do so and now you in measures should ask them to take a number of activities as they say. 66 I don't know what kind of activity that is. These are legally prescribed activities to form a report, to send it within the time limit. And in the first part, maybe I wasn't clear enough, maybe I was a little confused, I supported the Commission's report in these parts, Mr. Kovačević, Mr. Šašivarević, in which you want to prove to us that we have to adopt these figures. Well, I know we have to adopt them because they are, because someone spent them like that. And now we can't get that money back from the budget that was spent in that way. But, please fine, and in your presentations, I'm not prone to it either, I'm a legalist by nature to accuse anyone in advance. But what are you afraid of, gentlemen, is that the representatives of the OSC help us in this, because, by your admission, your very productive work has suggested all of these to be clear against legal action. I'm asking if it's against the law to be late in the report, to file a report on budget spending. You answer whether or not it is. I'm telling you it is. And because both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the vault that you're trying to defend, too, needlessly. I'm not attacking him, gentlemen, but I'm asking the question -- how could the vault allow someone from him to withdraw a ministry of some 100% more funds than it belongs to him. Is there a vault responsibility? I know, sir, in what sense you'll intervene. Mr. Šašivarević objected as if I had the pretense to say that these were not present, but past ministers. I mean, believe me, I'm not loaded. I don't care whether it was or whether it was the current minister, or whether it was the past minister. I advocate that no minister, no matter what political party he is from, is now in power or not allowed to do such jobs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we're going to build that country. Gentlemen, I know, here I am now to be explicit that this is now the current vault, checking the former vault, or the people of the current vault, who are now working in the vault, checking out people who used to work in the vault. But it is the vault of Bosnia and Herzegovina before and now and in the future. I therefore also support the Commission's report in the section relating to this figures amount and the spending of funds and everything else. But among the measures, I am not satisfied with those formulations, and I ask therefore that the vault and the Commission, namely to support the auditor and the Commission in these efforts, to strengthen our position, to bring the matter to an end. The people in the vault, I'm talking, out of the audit, I'm talking legal, they don't need them, and they didn't do it in their report, they didn't do it in advance. They account for the figures and the cost of the funds, but the results already show that this was not in line with the Budget Implementation Act. Maybe they had to do it. Look, but you're afraid we'll end it. And here's to repeating what I'm about to do, since the budget law doesn't provide for any sanctions for whoever's going to break it. That's gentlemen, that's another reason why we don't do as well as Parliament and we act more politically and promote laws, you know the biggest nonsense is to pass a law without criminal provisions and without sanctions for those who don't respect that law. And I'd say that these people and I will charge them right now, that they knew that there was no law and that's why they did so, so they didn't file a report. And you defend them all you want. I just don't know if it's for our own good if that's how we defend them, no matter who they are. And why do we want to help OSC experts now, not in terms of OSC? If I had no confidence in the people who have audited it, I would have said it openly, but if these people are willing to have expertise, European knowledge, and you all swore that we wanted to go to Europe as soon as possible. Well, here's what I want to do in Europe. Here, let us be helped by an OSC expert, really in the best of intentions, not because I have no confidence in people who are auditing, but to help them. And I have full confidence in them, too, but 67 I am even more convinced that with the help of OSC experts, they will do even better and that the OSC experts will guide them, even though we only have enough knowledge if we want to. And then we'll be safe, so when we know they were OSC representatives there, then we'll talk here as people, have full insight, and we won't come into conflict, doubt or anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4754	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. With this, we've exhausted the discussion of this agenda point. We have two very clear proposals. By voting let's simply show our responsibility to this material. The first proposal is the senior Commission for Finance and the budget, which first expressed its position in writing, delivered to us. So we're moving on to the voting act. Who is to adopt a report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' budget and international commitments for 2000 with the Commission's position on finance and budget. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? - Thank you and who's restrained? Of the 36 MPs present, 17 voted against 14 and abstention 3. So in the first round of voting. 36 MPs present. They didn't vote. We can do it one more time. There's no problem. Please, who is it to adopt the budget report for 2000. Who's in? Count it one more time. Who's against it? - 14 Who's abstentioned? - 4 We have an even position here. So we have 18, against it was 14, a total of 32, abstentions, and in that context we're going to get an entity vote. Who is from Republika Srpska's space for this report? - Thank you. Who's from the Federation area for? We regret that the entity majority of Republika Srpska means voted 3 and in this context, the first vote means the Commission report and the adoption of the report did not receive the necessary entity majority. We are going to the second proposal of the Parliamentary Club, which was presented by fellow Gligorić. If there's one more time to do it, I don't think it's necessary. Who is in favour of adopting a proposal from the Gligorić club. Who's in? Who's for please? - Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Are there any abstentions? Thank you for the 68 vote results are next. Of the 36 in favour voted 19 against 11, abstention 3. They're getting the parliamentary majority by entities. Who's from Federation space for? For the conclusion submitted by his colleague Gligorić. From the Federation space. Who's in? Who's from the Republika Srpska area for? So we find that he has received an entity majority and that I declare that the report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for the year 2000 has been adopted into knowledge and that, after the full report, the audit committee, i.e. the auditor, will be fully reviewed together with the Commission's report on finance and budget. Thank you. Moving to the next item of the Ad.6 agenda. A report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for January-March 2001, with an assessment of the situation for January-May 2001, please the President of the Commission to state its position, i.e. the Commission's position. I'm asking you a little patience. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4755	All your colleagues from Parliament would have warned you first and reminded you that you had mixed pots this time. It was debated, and there was a vote here on the review report, and this was the report from the vault, gentlemen. Just so you know about the previous point. In accordance with Articles 26 and 39. The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina" No. 20/00 of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Representatives' House, held at its 13th session, held on 16.7., put the report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period January-March 2000(?)... year with assessment of the situation for January-May 2000(?...the years delivered by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency 5.7. To the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for consideration of what is being delivered next and this and the report of the safe, gentlemen, to warn you in advance. The Commission believes that the circumstances of implementation of the 2001 budget for January-March 2001 should be respected in the conditions of a decision on the temporary financing of institutions and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001, which has had a certain impact on the internal balance of budgetary users. The Commission considers that the report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments for January-March 2001, with an assessment of the situation for January-May 2001, can serve as a basis for the adoption of changes and additions of the BiH institutions' budget for 2001, with the submission of the relevant Ministry of Budgetary Plans for all users. 69 The Commission proposes to the House of Representatives to adopt a report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for January-March 2001, with an assessment of the situation for January-May 2001. To be asked by the BiH Council of Ministers to take measures to spend all budget beneficiaries during the next period as well as in the future in the framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' budget and international commitments. I'm going to read this one more time so there's no confusion like before. Ask to be asked by the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4756	There was no confusion. Šašivarevć, there was no confusion, the House of Representatives has legally decided on the last item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4757	Sir, if you'd like to step out of there and say so. To be asked by the Council of Ministers to take all measures to spend all budget beneficiaries during the next period as well as to continue to fall within the framework of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budgets and international obligations of BiH. In line with the previous address to the Council of Ministers for the launch of the procedure for amending and supplementing the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2001. The Commission also proposes that the House of Representatives ask the BiH presidency to define things in detail, material and financial need for the smooth functioning of the BiH presidency. Also in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to examine the positions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's costs, according to the guidelines for the development of plans for budget rebalancing of BiH institutions and international obligations in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4758	I thank the President of the Commission. Is anyone answering for a word? There isn't. Thank you. Who is it to adopt this report? A report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions budget for January 2001. Thank you. Do you mind? - There's no abstention? - 2 abstentions From 34 MPs 30 for and 2 abstentions. It doesn't necessarily require an ethnic majority. So we adopted the report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for January-March 2000, with an assessment of the situation for January-May 2001. Point 7. has been removed so point 7. is second Ad. 7. Giving consent to ratification a)A treaty establishing an interstate co-operation council between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Does anyone here come forward? Under a) No. 70 Who's for please? Thank you. Would anyone mind? Thank you, abstentions? There is no sign of unanimity with 34 votes for us to adopt an agreement establishing an interstate council for co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. (b) The agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation and protection against natural and civilization disasters In terms of giving, means consent to ratification. Who's to ratify this agreement? Thank you. Would anyone mind? No abstentions? There are Takođa 34 votes to adopt the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation and protection against natural and civilization disasters, in order to give consent to the ratification of Ad.8 parliamentary questions and answers. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4759	Intended presidency, distinguished colleagues one question to the presidency. I'm unusually sorry to have to ask this, but I have to ask – why wasn't this Parliament's leadership present at the session of the 10th of this month, and we know what kind of session it was? - Why couldn't the delegation of this House be in the Potocari? And why is it not possible for individuals who wanted to go to the Potocari to be present? I, as president of the Human Rights Commission, received several MPs who wanted to go to Potocara and asked me to provide transport. I've been trying in Parliament for two days to secure the car, I'm told the car can't go to the Potocara, because it has to go to the vice president of the People's House at the airport. They'll get him from the airport instead of to go to the Potocara. I was there thanks to the private lines of the people I could go with, but I am sorry that the delegation of this Parliament was not there and when it was in progress I would like to know what rights the MPs here have all when their rights to use the vehicle continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4760	I thank Ambassador Osman Brk. I'd beg in writing and you'd get answers to, you could send them right away. Ambassador Begović. I'm sorry, Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4761	In the press, we had the opportunity to learn that the Yugoslav government did not ratify the Dayton Agreements even though Milošević signed it. I ask the question – is the information correct whether the Yugoslav Government has ratified this Dayton Agreement or not? I see here the signing of the agreement, if something isn't ratified then really no relationship can be introduced, no entity can enter any agreements with the government of Yugoslavia. That's what I'm asking as an MP. There may be misinformation, but I read it in the press. The second I asked at the 8th session 5 questions for the Council of Ministers and the relevant authorities. To the first question – I received an answer from Annex VII and thanks to the Council of Ministers for this exhaustive response, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights. It's a really exhausted answer and I'm completely satisfied with the answer. But on the second question where I asked the question – the question is called cities and settlements. We know that there is such a situation in a country where about everyone at each level determines how to name cities and populated places which is not common, nor is it common to do so in legal practice. So I asked this question, to prevent any possible accident, or misunderstandings among citizens, or even among the peoples. I am not an answer to this question of capital, and I am asking the Council of Ministers to give me an answer to this question as soon as possible. I asked the third question – the application of curricula and programmes in primary and secondary education. We have cases of Odžak, we have cases and other phenomena which are publicly stated in the press that, without any control, someone in their own way is going through other countries' curricula and programmes, which is an anarchical behavior like we're not a country, a sovereign country. I have asked this question in a thorough manner to prevent, if we want to move towards reconciliation or to create harmonic relations between peoples and citizens, I have asked the question of the tolerance of such anarchical behaviour in the field of education. I have not received an answer to that question, and I am asking the Minister in charge, or the Ministry, to give me an answer to this question as soon as possible. The fourth question - the protection of historical monuments. I have presented examples of historical monuments in Srebrenica, Gradina, Gracanics and other historical monuments that have already been devastated and already destroyed, and they belong to the real wealth of this country and I have asked the question - who is responsible for protecting such monuments under UNESCO's control. I didn't get an answer to this question until today and I'm asking the Council of Ministers to give me an answer to that question as soon as possible. 72 and the fifth question - the issue of regulating the legal status of pensioners' homes. Dear gentlemen, in the past, we have built these retirement homes out of contribution. So it wasn't the PIO Fund, no funds were built up from their own resources, but we were contributing to building these homes, and no one from the membership board was building these homes. Today, we have a huge part of the pensioners who are unsettled, and we need to protect these homes and provide these unsettled people to protect themselves from finding their own salvation. They don't even have any apartments. I suggested that this issue be considered that a special law on the status of homes at the state level was passed, because we built it in time at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in a unique way to resolve the issue of home status. I even suggested that they have the status of a public institution of particular social interest to protect these people who are exhausted, elderly, etc. I didn't get an answer to this question and I'm asking the Council of Ministers to give me an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4762	I thank Ambassador Begović. The Ambassador of Bilbija asked for it before.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4763	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, here we have today a new composition of the Council of Ministers. The parliamentary questions and answers were probably as tired as we were, so most of them left. I have one parliamentary question for the Council of Ministers, which reads like this – by suspending work in Iraq in 1990 during the invasion of Iraq in Kuwait, the UN granted its resolution 692 to the compensation of the GIK Hydrobuilding Sarajevo amounting to $91,648.780,00 US dollars. Hydrobuilding at the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has already received cca 46,000,000.00 US dollars, while Hidrogradja Srpsko Sarajevo has not even been notified of the realization of the damage mentioned. Given that the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been a single enterprise, I believe that some of the funds should belong to Hidrogradnja, based in the Republic and Serbia as a legal successor. I'm asking the Council of Ministers for instructions on these legitimate claims.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4764	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. Ambassador Šašivarević. Let's take it in a row. I'm sorry. I wrote down Dr. Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4765	I would ask the esteemed College to order the professional services to deliver a report on receipts to me in the last 3 months of staff in professional services in this House. I would still support Mr. Osman Brk, just to point out three MPs in this House have expressed their desire to go to Potocara, Mrs. Violeta Kamberović, Mr. Brka and I, and we couldn't get the cars you know with which explanation – the car must go to the airport to pick up Mr. Tokić. That's an explanation. That's what happened. Thank you very much. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4766	Please. It's not common, since it's a deep political issue. Absolutely MPs have no need to address anyone other than the College and the House of Representatives. I assure you, it means that the College has had an extremely good will for all MPs to go to Potocara and Srebrenica and to hold a meeting in Parliament to finish their part of the job. The gentleman can simply confirm that. In this context absolutely there are no, simply possible associations that the College was simply refraining from this in marking and commemorating the tragedy of Srebrenica. That's one thing. I ask you, if someone dares to stop the MPs from going to the airport on condition one of the officials of the House of Peoples, I think it's an inappropriate act and that it's not, absolutely not, so the College could intervene and secure the car. So if this House doesn't have a Federation government, they have other institutions. I'm begging you. So absolutely. They know, the College was at an Interparliamentary meeting with the European Community and it is not disputed. Ambassador Brk. I apologize for the brief intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4767	Your Honor, I have brought the facts here. I stand behind every word I say. I've been trying to secure the car for two days. Two days I've been told he can't, he should pick up Tokić at the airport. I didn't want to say here when Mr. Šašivarević said, that's what happened. His airport has been moved since the delegation of this parliament to Potocara. That's the facts. Sir, please don't shake your hands. I don't want that to happen anymore. That's why I intervened here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4768	I ask you to contact the College of the House of Representatives in due time, and you will be provided with all that is lawfully and according to the decisions of the Administrative Commission. So absolutely not the disputed will of the College to provide... was not disputed. No, the College wasn't in on it. You should have just, just before that, given your request, nothing more and it would have been done. poslanik Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4769	I asked a parliamentary question a month and a half ago – what did the Council of Ministers do to improve the living standards of workers and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I didn't get that answer. I'm looking for him again, and I'm asking that same question to this new Council of Ministers what they're thinking of doing on that issue. And another thing you'd like to ask us to draw some conclusions. I've been following today all day, even though I'm tired of coming out of the way tonight, let's ask this one, to conclude that MPs turn off their cell phones during the session. Especially those who have loudspeakers or let them leave them messages. If they cancel the conversation, they can still go out there and talk. This was really disturbing today. Em's hot, em's nonstop ringing. You're machinally turning on the phone, you don't know where it's ringing, especially these noisy phones. I would even consider it an insult to an MP and a warning. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4770	Thank you. Ambassador Jovanović. There's no replica of questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4771	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have no objection and should have attended a delegation in front of the Potocari Assembly, but I am also asking the question that this same or some other delegation should have been present in Kravica, so on July 12th, when the stone was also set as the cornerstone of the victims in the region of Birač. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4772	I thank Ambassador Jovanović. Ambassador Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4773	My parliamentary question stems from Annex VIII, which envisions the formation of a commission to preserve national monuments in the context of what Mr Begović has brought here. The commission would be dealing with the problem further. My question is – is this commission being formed and if it isn't going to be formed? Because they remind me of Article 1. Anexa VIII Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation and Republika Srpska signed an agreement to form the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4774	I thank Ambassador Cuplow. Ambassador Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4775	I don't think it's right that a little bile, since we're tired of discussing the subject of a car. I had the same intention to go to Srebrenica, we all had a wish, but the pace was such that they didn't agree to the time. I think Sejfudin Tokić knew that car needed it for Srebrenica so he could pay for the car. My question is - When will the committee of this Parliament be formed to control the armed forces that will be in the function of creating an initiative, the initial chapels along with a committee to meet one condition, which is to form a common army to meet another condition. This is one question, and another – When will the Joint Commission of this Parliament be formed for the control of the MUP, or for the formation of a single within the borders of the Constitution, normally what can be done not to exceed any authority in order to begin to achieve that initial part in September or autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4776	I thank Ambassador Šarganović. Ambassador Damir Mašić. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4777	One quick question. What measures have the Council of Ministers taken against the departure of young people from our country, and if it is not what does it intend to do about it? Please respond as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4778	I thank the Messenger Mašić. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4779	Gentlemen of the chairman, I have received from a group of citizens from Srebrenica where they also address representatives of the Srebrenica Municipality and the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons of Republika Srpska and the High Representative and others, and through me have asked that activities be carried out by the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, normally by the Ministry of the Ministry of Homes, i.e. facilities that were used for the purpose of Sweden by exiled pieces of silver that were located in Srebrenica, and now they have Serb refugees in them, with the camp puppies on private estates where people would like to process. I ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, to take the necessary action, or to coordinate the Ministry of Displaced Persons of Republika Srpska, and the Srebrenica Municipality to regulate it recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-07-18-0.u4780	I thank Ambassador Malkić. With this, we have exhausted the parliamentary questions. We will try to make these answers simple as possible by the Council of Ministers. I thank you for your patience and cooperation at the 12th session of the House of Representatives. Please. We predict that we could organize, simply and our family and the possibility of going on vacations, have a holiday from August 1st to August 25th, and we would do well to respect that. Before that, there'll be a session at the end of July probably, but it's not safe. You'll be notified. The session is finished at 19.00.
