ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3243	Gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members, I am opening the 3rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, we are invited to attend the BiH presidency for the first time, led by the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE representatives, representatives of the EU's Observation Mission, a series of ambassadors, representatives of the embassy, accredited in BiH, as well as other guests. I would like to welcome all the guests, all the MPs, to welcome the funds of public information, which, given the importance of today's session in large numbers, are present at this session. The absence of the session was announced only by Abdurahman Malkić, an MP and, in this context, I find the session to be attended by 41 MPs, a sufficient quorum for full-time work and the decision of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear MPs and distinguished guests, before we move to a debate on the agenda, we have two previous issues, first of all, I would like to draw attention to your attention, your attention, that today you have received an interpretation of the Office of the High Representative, concerning the activities of this House, since the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not yet been established. As we have seen, the interpretation of the Office of the High Representative clearly points out that there is no interference that the House of Representatives performs all the actions that are under the BiH Constitution in its jurisdiction. These gentlemen were also given an answer to some of the MPs, who reiterated questions at previous sessions, or asked the question of the legality of the work of the House of Representatives until the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was established. Secondly, the question is that in our House of Representatives, there have been some personal changes. Namely, from the head of the OSCE Mission in BiH and the chairman of the Interim Election Commission, Ambassador Robert Beri, we were informed that Mr Branko Dokić and Hamdia Kulović's resignation was accepted as MPs in this house. Accordingly, in accordance with the Rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission, the following, legal, qualified MPs, Mr Željko Bilbija of the list of the Party of Democratic Progress of RS, Mrs Emina Zaćiragić, from the Party for BiH list, were appointed as new MPs. I propose, in this sense, that, before moving to the realization of the proposed agenda, the new MPs present a solemn oath before the House of Representatives, so that they can be actively involved in the 2 further process of work of the House of Representatives. I call upon the MPs, and together the MPs shall take an oath. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. [[Making a solemn statement]] The Honorable Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Thank you. I would like to congratulate the new MPs and express my welcome to the House of Representatives. As part of these previous questions, Mr. Banjac, did you ask for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3244	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs and guests, I thought Mr. Chairman knew the name of the MP who asked the question of the constitutionality of work at home. The second thing I'm saying is, gentlemen of the College, I thought this house had a legally elected leadership. My question was addressed to the leadership of this home, with full respect for the OHR institution. I respect the OHR's institution, but for the sake of this House's history, I am asking you gentlemen to sign the College, and I reserve the right to take a position on behalf of the SDS Club later.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3245	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Business, procedurally, we have delivered OHR's opinions, which in this context, certainly, that Mr. Banjac will receive on his questions in writing a response to the College, based, normally on the OHR's opinion that we received today as information. Thank you. I suggest we take a look at the proposed agenda. For this session, the College proposed only two points of the agenda, which are: 1. Record of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives, and 2nd. Approving the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers for the proposed points you have received earlier. However, as there was a change in the membership of the House of Representatives, as we have now verified two new MPs in the House of Representatives, this was thought to impose the need to, under point 3. To include the selection of members of the House's committee, given that two members of the commission have come out and in this context it is simply a simple replacement, simple replacement of candidates, or members of commissions, normally, consistent with the participation of individual political parties, i.e. parties in committees. In that sense, I suggest that the agenda be established in the following way. It was below: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 2nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, 3nd session. Disembarkation of candidates for the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH presidency's decision, and 3. The addition of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Committee. Is there any other passages? Mr. lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3246	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the BiH Presidency, honourable members of the Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Government, honourable colleagues and colleagues, I have an objection to the proposed agenda, given that the House of Representatives was established at the moment when the committees were established, we do not have a constitutional committee of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have them, but in the back of the assembly. So I suggest that the point under 1 goes to establishing committees in full convocation, so the changes that need to be made. Thank you. Point 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3247	So we're proposing a reconstruction of the agenda, right, Mr. lužanski? Under point 1 of the minutes, a declaration of the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives under point 1. Under such a 2nd supplement of the Committee of Representatives of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 3rd. Approving the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the presidency's decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3248	We can withdraw, the commissions have been established, because always during the assembly's work, it can be questioned that a member of the commission is changed and you can't consider it a question of establishing a House of Representatives, but if it's a request I don't mind. Home's been built. Change of commission members doesn't mean much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3249	With one suggestion that last time at the 2nd session of the House of Representatives, we have established committees and committees themselves with the help of, normally, the College, which hosted the constitution of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary House Commissions, which means that it is necessary to change the members of the committees, and in this context cannot be considered that the House is not being established if a member of the commission is changed. In the normal procedure of parliament, which will certainly be present in the proper functioning of this House. So we suggest we keep point 3. In addition to the selection of new members of the committees, the corresponding change in the composition of the House of Representatives and the simple rules of the PIC – the Interim Election Commission, in line with the MPs who took over the executive functions, means the functions of the Executive Authority and within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the ZE-DO Canton. So I suggest the original agenda once again. 1. It's a record of two. Sessions of House of Representatives 2. Approval of appointments of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and 3. The election of members of the House Commission. 4 Who's in, please? Who's against it? There's no one here. Who's being held back? We can go to the entity vote. Who's in, from the RS area? Thank you. Who's against it? Anyone who is abstention - that's not necessary - is a fact. We're leaving the Federation of BiH entity area. Who's in? Let's see if it's checked, entity already got it right. Here is the basis, in the meantime, MP Mr Malkić arrived for the session. We have a total of 42 MPs present. In the first round, 32 MPs voted in favour of the vote -- against no one and four MPs were abstentioned. The entity's majority is the following: the Federation of BiH voted for 23 and RS for 8, which means that the agenda is adopted by both criteria and in that sense I once again declare the agenda for today's session. 1. Journal of the 2nd Session of the House of Representatives, 2nd Approval of appointments of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and 3. The election of members of the House's committee. Thank you for this part of the procedure. We're going to the 1st point of the agenda. Ad.1. It's a record of two. House of Representatives' sessions I, if anyone doesn't answer, have only one technical correction before. In part of the report, where it is said at the end of my presentation, it clearly stands out, I pointed out, it means that, as a rule, in the committees of the House of Representatives, they need or must be at least present, or two members of Croatian nationality, at least, and it says most in that sense, that is the correction I am looking for. Any other observations. Here you go. Mr. Miro Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3250	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed Presidency, the esteemed Council of Ministers, the esteemed guests, I have one objection on the subject of the Recorder, one part of the text was torn up on my discussion, where I was talking about the percentage of SDP votes received within the Croatian Corps, so I would ask that it be entered, and the other part has a replica, which was in my possession, a replica of the replica, which referred to the discussion, namely the replica of Mr. Lagumdžija, so I would also ask that it be entered, because it is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3251	Business MPs have the right to authorise the discussion and ask for the decadent entry of the words they have spoken after this speaker. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3252	Dearly respected Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, there is a technical mistake here when it comes to this committee on religious matters, it says here that the committee will be chaired by the chairman of SDS's club, so it should stand: "an ambassador from the SDS parliamentary club".
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3253	Thank you. Any other comments on the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives? As I can see, there isn't. We have two, practically, technical corrections and mistakes in the record, one essential Mr Titan, so who is it to adopt with these interventions the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives? Who's in? Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. We can conclude that we unanimously adopted the record of these three interventions. 42 MPs are present, in this sense I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 2nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The result of the vote is 42 – a vote for 36. So we weren't against -- abstentioned, so we have an MP who didn't simply plead for neither against nor abstained for this item of the agenda. There's no need, the entity majority checks, I think we've shown that by voting, and in that sense we've adopted the first item of the agenda. We can move to agenda number two. Ad. 2. Approving the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers before that is the intervention of Mr Luzanski, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3254	Mr. Chairman, of course the HDZ Representatives Club accepts this item of the agenda, but before giving a word to the BiH presidency candidate, this high duty, in accordance with Article 62. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the HZD is seeking a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3255	Thank you, half an hour's break. After this half-hour break, we move on to realization 2. Points of the agenda 3. Sessions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, aimed at approving the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers. [[PAUZA]] I will be free to read you the decadent decision we received from the BiH presidency. 6 Based on Article 5(4). Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution and Article 6. The Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BiH Ministries ("The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 11/00), the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 91st presidents, held on 18 January 2001, made the decision by Mr. Martin Raguž to be appointed the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is set out in Articles 1 and 2. The decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Number: 014-02796/01 Sarajevo January 18, 2001. In the years of Bosnia and Herzegovina Chairman Mr. Živko Radišić, I would also be free to direct the words of Mr. Presidents, if anyone wants to address the Presidency in the light of the reasons for this proposal, if not, then I would like to call on Mr. Martin Raguž, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit his programme to the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please have someone before this word, Mr. Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3256	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I would consider before we go at all, when it comes to Mr. Martin Raguž's exposure, the Council of Ministers' term of office, that we need to determine very important matters. I refer to Article 4(1), and this occasion requires the Parliamentary Assembly to have two homes, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. Before the presentation process even takes place, I ask that the College declare whether there is a Parliamentary Assembly. The reasons are completely clear. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Point 3(e) if, therefore, some of the proposed decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly can be declared to be harmful, or to any of the three peoples, how can we do so if there is no Parliamentary Assembly, that is, there are no both homes of the peoples. I also refer to Article 5(4). The Council of Ministers (a) The Chair and ministers together form the Council of Ministers, with regard to the implementation of the BiH decision policy in the areas referred to in paragraphs 1.4 and 5 of Article 3 of the report to the Parliamentary Assembly, includes at least an annual report on the expenditures of BiH. To whom will Martin Raguž, or the Council of Ministers, file a report, I ask? In addition, the same article, paragraph (c) of the Council of Ministers, is obliged to resign if at any time the Parliamentary Assembly votes no confidence. To whom the Council of Ministers, i.e. the mandate officer, will resign, i.e. who is the one who can replace it. I do not see here before we go at all, I think it would be the instructions that the College be manifested on this matter, too, that representatives of all clubs in the Parliamentary Assembly, or at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I do not think that they have obtained the conditions with due respect for the mandate, or proposed 7 for the Council of Ministers' mandate. I propose to the BiH presidency, until these conditions are met, to withdraw the proposal for a mandate of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3257	I thank the messenger Titan. Is there anyone else to report for word, before we move on to point 2. Let me just remind you, these previous questions, or questions raised by the honourable MP, were objectively presented before the adoption of the agenda. We've adopted the agenda. The agenda is a stubborn fact under point 2. The consideration of candidates for the Council of Ministers and such agendas has been adopted and in this sense we are obliged to act on the agenda in terms of the realisation of a job that is very responsible, a job standing before a representative home. One more time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3258	I don't understand, we can adopt the agenda, and we can change it. It doesn't matter at all what was adopted in the agenda, I think this is a very important historical moment and the violation in this case is a violation of the Constitution and I don't think anyone can be above, when it comes to the Constitution. Therefore, I do not believe that the conditions have been met, given that we do not have a position when it comes to whether there is a Parliamentary Assembly. I repeat once again, I ask the College to plead, and you know the way to declare itself by consensus. Is there a Parliamentary Assembly? Also, I ask here to declare representatives of all clubs in the Parliamentary Assembly, to declare whether there is a Parliamentary Assembly or not? If it exists and the conditions are met, then it's fine. If it doesn't exist, we can't go against the Constitution, it would mean we're creating a protectorate and I disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3259	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3260	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have one suggestion, and it is the next nature. Before that, one finding. All political parties and individuals, someone honest, and someone with little and half mouth support the General Framework Agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, the indisputable fact at least seems to me that Bosnia and Herzegovina is necessarily in need of an active role of the international community and that it is an inevitable factor and future in these areas. I think we all agree on that. The ultimate goal of all actions related to both of these factors is to build institutions and authorities of the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means building institutions and bodies of entities, because one without another cannot. I think it's also an indisputable fact here in this House. One of the very important institutions is the Parliamentary Assembly that we are holding here. I respect Mr. President, indeed your intention to make us work quickly and efficiently, in order to build this one of the most significant institutions as soon as possible, but in no way can we allow the speed that I have noticed, and I don't know if the rest of them have produced improvisations and come to a solution that will not be at the 8th satisfaction of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I personally as an MP of this respected home am not satisfied with the fact of these improvisations. Please, we replaced two MPs this morning. I respect fully the OHR, which issues the verification of these mandates, but has been a fundamental duty precisely because of the dignity and importance of this council to do so in a dignified manner. Unless we have, and we do not have a mandate-immunity committee, that at least you do, and you read that report, to inform us which party it is, to thank the previous MP, to inform us of the name and last name of the other MP, so that I, as the rapporteur of this council, know what it is. I think that both the reasons and the interventions of the other MPs are going in this direction, in order to do a very responsible job, as you have said, we must also show a high degree of responsibility, and it seems to me that we are not approaching in such a way, but that we are trying because of some special or party or any other interest to speed up all this to be a prelude, and I am deeply convinced that this will not achieve the ultimate goal, which is to establish this council in accordance with the constitution and regulations and attitudes of the international authorities of the international community, in order to really do that job that stands before us, in order to bring regulations which are in our jurisdiction and what should be on the benefit of all BiH citizens and both entities. In that direction, I would really like to pray as an MP to everyone and especially you, who are the most responsible to behave as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3261	We assure our fellow MPs that the College is most responsible for its function and that in this sense certainly any degree of improvisation in the management and preparation of these sessions we strive not to have and so far we have proven that improvisation is not our method of working. I also remind you that seven days have been delayed, because there have been proposals, an examination of the appointments, or approval of the appointment of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, which we have come under urgent procedure by the Presidency. We also appreciate that it is necessary, after two months of 11 November, to effectively establish the functioning of both legislative and executive authorities at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the House of Peoples and the functioning of the House of Representatives, and in this context, OHR clearly responded from the aspect of interpreting the powers of this House and simply constitutional obligations and the possibility of functioning of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The message is quite clear. The OHR has the right to interpret the Constitution in BiH and this home can do its job uninterrupted. He is responsible for the appointment of candidates, i.e. the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, without the consent of the House of Peoples, under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, absolutely, all the prerequisites are that we can go to the realization of the agenda that we adopted. All of this was necessary before the adoption of the agenda and point 2. Or point 3 of point 2. Which means that if an MP on behalf of the HDZ Club, on behalf of the HDZ Club, asks for an interpretation of the College, we simply can, on that suggestion, take five minutes off and we will return. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3262	I welcome you all. Mr. Chairman, I have a grudge. For which you and the College are allowed to question each five minutes and to explain every five minutes that today is the day that MPs are elected to sit here, that this is the House of Representatives. Please, we've adopted the agenda. Club 9 of the BiH Party's MPs last asked to be included, etc., this same House of Representatives decided to hold a session in seven days. In those seven days, every MP, every club had a chance to say that something was wrong, that this assembly was not standing here where it stands, etc. Please, don't make MPs who will stand for an hour every five minutes to have someone come up with something and open something new as a suspicion. This House of Representatives has the right to plead on this issue and I ask you to continue the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3263	Thank you, Ambassador Belkić. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3264	Ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the Club of Members of the Serbian Democratic Party and if you have noticed when I have kept the right to speak, and if you have noticed, the MPs of the Serbian Democratic Party have not declared themselves on the agenda or anything, and I ask the honourable Member Belkić not to lecture himself on being equal, not to give them the right to speak, the right to speak, the right to give an opinion, I understand you, I understand that you want to go better, we want to all, but please do not take the right of people to speak, it is a fundamental human right. In the name of that, gentlemen, a question has been raised here for the presidents of the Members' clubs. Gentlemen of the College, I didn't go out to beg even to convince, I didn't come out or bother to do what you want, but I've asked you a very precise question earlier to answer me in writing rather than to pass me the institution's answer, which I appreciate and respect, but this is the home you chaired by the Kolegijum, I want the signatures. I want what this present will once become in the past in some future, and it will be known what was going on and what was going on and whether it was supposed to be. I won't be a gentleman once it suits me to break the Constitution and the second time it doesn't suit me not to break the Constitution. Let's stick to principle and stick to arguments. I keep understanding for those who think differently, but please need an argument, the arguments are next. You know that in the Constitution, the House of Nations is listed first, that he is the protector of national interests. Please, I'm asking us all a question. We live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina has two entities. As it was possible for formal reasons to be held in the RS for two and a half years by the old government only because the official vice president of the republic could not, as reportedly, propose a mandate. Now, gentlemen, we can do this without a home. Who are we kidding, gentlemen? I'm not saying this for the sake of you sitting here you know it well. I speak for the public and speak for the history of the work of this house. How come you're taking it? I, of course, reserve the right to ask the Constitutional Court. However, as the situation stands in the Constitutional Court, it is best not to ask him, because they cannot decide anything there, because they are revoted and do not comply with the constitutional provisions of the state. As it is possible for us to choose today, Mr. Raguž, I have nothing against you, you must understand, but you were present that I did not vote in favour of the agenda or members of the Serbian Democratic Party, right at the beginning. So, gentlemen, we didn't calculate. The only club that's been acting right from the start is us. I'm asking you, Mr. Raguž. To whom you will present 10 reports today and if you, pardon your work programme, do you personally consider that there is a Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am interested. I'm interested in Mr. Raguž if you're elected, of course I have my own attitude and I'll say it eventually. To whom will you report on your work after a certain period, if there is no Parliamentary Assembly and there is no gentlemen under Article 4 first position, because it consists of two homes, to whom will you submit? And I'm finally asking you who's going to be able to relieve you. You say only the Parliamentary Assembly can replace you. If there is no House of People, who will take your place? If this isn't, I know some people are bored.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3265	We've got an intervention, three minutes, I'm asking you to bring her in.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3266	You're not, please, this is a discussion and you have no right to border on me, find me that member of the Rules of Procedure, find and read. Please, Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to tell me, if that's it, where it says it. Please don't run the assembly. Come to me. Please, stay with the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking, find and read. Next, gentlemen, I don't have, so I intend to stop anything here, you have most of it, and you can choose whatever you want. Choose gentlemen, only you who choose to remember that one day you will come into conflict on the issue of the Constitution, and then I will ask you where you were when you violated it, which you would now respect. I have a right to ask you gentlemen. I have the right to ask these RS gentlemen who promised to respect the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, too, to see how they would behave. Here I expect to see their behaviour, and you know how MPs of the Serbian Democratic Party will behave. We gentlemen will participate in all the debates. We care about explaining to the people what is done here, but we will not participate in the statement until the Parliamentary Assembly is constitutionally established and I ask you to take this into account. We're not gonna get out of here, this is our home, we're not gonna shut up, we're gonna talk straight, but we're not gonna plead. On the day the terms are made that we may plead, we shall plead. You'll outvote us, so let's outvote us, that's democracy. We're not fighting against you not to outvote us. You do what you think you should, but gentlemen, I ask you that the condition in which you will be dragged into this work is not necessary. No, because in Bosnia and Herzegovina two and a half years, the government did not have the support of the officially elected assembly. Which these people can't function for another month. This is where the gentlemen move the problem where he's gone. The problem is gentlemen in the Federation. Republika Srpska has elected its delegates to the House of Peoples. Our delegates are waiting to work in this home but they can't work. Is that democracy? Choose your delegates, let the people meet, and we'll work. We'll work, we'll convince ourselves, we'll make arguments and no problem. So our attitude is quite clear. We will participate in the discussions, but not in the pleadings.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3267	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Mr. Adem Borić. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3268	But I ask Mr. Raguž to answer my question to you and to the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3269	Madam Chairman, Mr. President, members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Parliament, the Party of Democratic Action Party's Party of the Centre, for the absolute respect of the procedure of the Constitution and the law, of course, this club is also for the urgent establishment of the Council of Ministers, in order to promote life in this country finally forward and create a greater perspective for all citizens of the country. We want to hear Mr. Raguž's program and determine the program, not the personality.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3270	Thank you, Ambassador Borić. Is anyone else answering for word? If he's not answering, I'd like to invite you to article 55. The Chair shall give the MP who wishes to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not respecting the agenda. Since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mr Banjac, partly calling for the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the discussion could take three minutes. Please, we didn't open the discussion on the matter, we simply adopted the agenda and it's a stubborn fact that we established at the beginning of this session. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3271	Mr. Chairman, you have no right to speak. [[speaks from the site]] I'm asking the sestenogram to find what I said. I'm not...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3272	One club of MPs has asked for an indication of the House of Representatives' House of Parliament, and I propose that in five minutes, the College will return here. Forgive us for this part we've set aside for a meeting and a co-ordination of opinions. [[PAUZA]] The College of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina calls for the conclusions and consensus reached at the 2nd President of the House of Representatives, where it has been laid down and adopted its position, that the appointment of the session, the 3rd session of the House of Representatives in order to consider the approval of the Council of Ministers' candidate, is scheduled for 7 to 10 days, that this was a unanimous position, or position of this House of Representatives, that we have respected the opinion of Mr Raguž candidates on behalf of the Council of Ministers' Presidency for seven to ten days of tolerance and in this context fully respected the procedure, since the procedure says that this is a mandatory issue to be put on the agenda, it cannot be taken down that the House of Representatives is considered and has the powers and that the approval of the Council of Ministers should be approved by the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers should be held by the Council. So this is in the intelligence, exclusively the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives exists, no one was able to challenge it conditionally and he, as such, functioned as a whole, was established together with the commissions. The very fact that the Presidency as the legal authority of this country has made an official request to the House of Representatives for the approval of the appointment of the Council of Ministers of Presidents indicates that the Bureau also reflects the legality and legal legality of this House. Also, the College is unanimous in its assessment that it cannot nor have the right to interpret the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the authority and the only interpreter of the BiH Constitution, in BiH, is OHR. We have received OHR's opinion in full, from the point of view of the response to the legality and authority of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this regard we do not want to comment on the OHR's position any less. Which means that the mandated proposal of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency has sent a request to the House of Representatives, that this is a mandatory item of the agenda, that it cannot be removed from the agenda and that it remains as it is. At today's 3rd session of the House of Representatives, we adopted the agenda and we believe that everything else would be politicization and objective inability to operate this representative home, so I suggest we move to point 2. The daily third we adopted as a House of Representatives. Everything else, we also have the Constitutional Court, we have other institutions, which can objectively give interpretation and give answers to this constitutional matter. The College, once again, has no right nor can it assume its right or responsibility to interpret the BiH Constitution and in this context we believe that any legal or other obstacles have been removed, conditionally said for the implementation of the agenda. We adopted the agenda and it's a stubborn fact and it's a consensus that was reached last session and I think in that sense that we can objectively move to point 2. The adoption of the agenda. In that sense, I call once again on the candidate for the Council of Ministers' Chairman, Mr Grabovac has an intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3273	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I think I've made myself clear, when it comes to my question of the College, it's a little strange that the College can violate the Constitution, and I know that it can't interpret it, it's familiar to me. So I'm not asking him to interpret it, but I'm asking him not to break the Constitution. I believe that the conditions have not been met again, and I believe that it may be the procedure to consider the BiH Presidency, if it knew that the House of Peoples had not been formed, that it was not necessary to propose a mandate for the Council of Ministers and I am interested in whether it is your personal position or whether it is the position of the College, so I would ask if it doesn't bother to make a statement and presidents of the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3274	I have been very clear, I have been invited to the conclusions and the minutes of the 2nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this sense it is quite clear that these findings and these thesises, i.e. I draw from the simple minutes and come out quite clearly for today's 3rd session of the House of Representatives. I thank the chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Radišić, for his obligations. Thank you for being with us today. Here you go. If you've heard from me before, I apologize, I give my word. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3275	I am Dušan Stokić of the Party of Democratic Progress RS. I think today is about a very important thing. This looks to the eye insignificant, procedurally, we have on one hand reasons to form the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, so that this country really gets a government that needs to deal with a number of life problems and that needs to be solved as soon as possible. But if we're going to sacrifice some important principles, some essential principles such as constitutionality, then we have to stop, drop the ball, think about everything, and not rush, it's better to wait a few days. I think we made a mistake at the last session. I don't have any political experience, I'm not a lawyer, so I believed in last session when we agreed to postpone by seven days making the final decision. But if we come in here to do this, I don't know what our future will be like when we settle some other issues. If we break the Constitution once, we open up the war, it means we're working illegally and I think we're going to get into a deeper crisis. So, I'd like to ask, is there anyone competent here to answer my question. If we put this item on the agenda today and vote on the mandate, did we violate the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina? If we're not sure that we haven't broken, I suggest that this item from the agenda is removed, that we don't decide today, but that competent people really do, I don't know who that is, is that the Constitutional Court, is that OHR, who's behind it? If no one here knows who's competent, then we really don't do it right. Therefore, it is no longer a question of who will support, whether this individual or he will be, it is very important to respect the law in this country, to respect the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the largest legal acts. The party I come from, he's just insisting on those principles, and that's why I'm suggesting what I'm saying. Thank you. Just to say, it says here in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that both homes should be established within 30 days of their adoption. What wasn't done for? Part of these people's duties, I think the presidency made a mistake when it entered this procedure. At least they should know, the procedure, proposed to continue to run until the final election of the prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3276	I thank Ambassador Stokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3277	I am Mr. President-in-Office, the Honorable President, Mr. Mirko Baković, therefore I ask the President not to use, or vice president, but to say the name and last name, since I am reporting for the second or third time, and that should be known. I imagine that we are gathered here, not as gladiators in the arena or circus fighting with some of our opinions, with some of our own escapades, but that in one smart and intelligent and consistent way we have come to some points of view, and I don't think it's a good start again. I've listened to Mr. Grabovac and I think some of his attitudes and some of his thoughts are in place and that he's... on some legal facts and some code. If we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not going to start 14 from Dayton and the Constitution, which... product of Dejton and the child of Dejton, and then I don't know what we're going to come from and what I'm going to talk about. If the Constitution says that Parliament is established or formed, only then, if the House of Representatives is there and the House of Peoples is there, then in this situation I believe that there is still gap and that things are not formally and legally completed and that they cannot be talked about a complete composition of the legislative authority with us. For this reason, I believe that, I can neither make any moves nor choose the chairman of the Council of Ministers in the first sense, although I used to be there for it, under psychosis to form a power executive to work, but I can only see that there is a gap here and that without solving it we cannot go any further. I speak as a member of the HZD, or as a representative of that party. I believe that on the basis of or on the basis of the election results of the HDZ BiH, even in a literal sense can be identified with the will and strength of the Croatian people in these areas, and if the House of Peoples, which guarantees that people, the smallest people, the fewth nation in BiH, its constitutionality and statehood, and ultimately the survival of life, would mean that it would be even risky for us to engage in these moves to elect presidents from the order of the Croatian people, that is, how it comes to our turn. So I think we should really appreciate that fact and postpone this for some better times, etc. If, as such, we are not able to interpret the Constitution and experience it and understand it, then who will it be. Are we gentlemen being foolish so we don't believe in ourselves? If I read the Constitution that says that and says that, what I said, I think that's how it is and that's how we should treat ourselves. On the other hand, if this fact, which I represent and which I represent here, then the natural side of the law would not be satisfied that it requires an ordinary inner necessity of things. Therefore, I think that this should be taken into account and that we should not go too soon. I don't know, but I keep wondering what's going on with some solutions, with some actions, if it doesn't work out in one sense that we can all believe that it's not just moral, but intelligent, constructive and that it can't be without it. I'm always experiencing things here, like some speed, like some kind of upheaval, like something that's who's gonna cheat on who, and I don't think it's supposed to be, because Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think BiH as a state should be dealt with, that is, set up so that it's not an ad-hok on a day of two but a century on a millennium. We live here. Our generations here will live, therefore, to be taken care of. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3278	I thank Ambassador Baković, with my observation that the third session is and that you are objectively aware that I did not objectively report all MPs from the aspect of the name and last name and, in that sense, an apology. Here you go, Mr. Lužanski, or the vice-president has expressed here... 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3279	Dear members of the Bureau, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished gentlemen of MPs and guests, I can say that we in the College today have not discussed these issues raised by the honourable representative Mr Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan. I can tell you it's not the College that adopted the agenda. Behind the agenda was last time an extended college and the MPs, which is the number I don't know. I personally didn't support that agenda, so there's no confusion. If you ask me, Mr. Grabovac, I'll make it clear. Is there a Parliamentary Assembly? The short answer is no. Is there a House of Peoples? The same short answer is no. Is there at this point a possibility of protecting the vital interest of one of the people, for me the answer is no. Whether the House of Representatives has been established. The answer is yes. This is in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I needed to say it so there wouldn't be any confusion. I don't want to take myself as a right, because I'm not strong or powerful enough to put myself above the Constitution, to put myself above the interests of the people and the citizens, there you are, distinguished fellow MPs. That's why I, as one of the MPs, was also in charge of my vote, and in the future, I will take care of it all, so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3280	Thank you to Deputy Chairman Ljubić. A new member of the House of Representatives, Ms Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3281	I welcome all present, I am Zaćiragić Emina, I am the new MP in this House. I'd just like a few words. I've heard a lot of lessons here from the Constitution, from the interpretation, from the Dayton Agreement, this constitution has been obstructed to us and we need to apply it, you know. I'd go to the MPs with this, travel around Bosnia a little bit, ride buses, trams, trolley buses, go to refugee camps, see what the people expect of us. We act like we represent ourselves here. We have chosen certain groups from all three nations and have chosen MPs with a desire to approach the task responsibly. Please, the agenda has been adopted and we're going back to the agenda from last session, we're trying in some way to withdraw this session or eliminate it, I don't know what calculator reasons, and I think a lot of discussions are going in that direction. I think it would be necessary for today's agenda to continue and move on until it's over. This all going back to the beginning is a delay and irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3282	Thank you, Ambassador Zaćiragić. Mr. lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3283	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, delaying or not delaying, I do not see any reason to rush into the procedure, especially given the obligation of those of us who made an oath to respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some of the colleagues have spoken here but about not respecting the procedure, 16 above all, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I do not think is the use of the procedure to put the selection and validation of the mandate of the Council of Ministers before the conditions are established before the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is established. In addition to this claim, Article 5.2 point (d) goes where it is said and here we thank Bog that consensus has been reached, and what has not reached a consensus about Martin Raguž. A member of the Presidency of the Croatian People's Republic, and this article says that an objection must be made within three days to the House of Peoples, or the Club of Representatives from which a member of the BiH presidency complains. Since the conditions have not been met, firstly on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I ask for an indication of the presidency's candidate, on the issues raised here by members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency of the Croatian people, whether he remains a member of the presidency for Mr Raguž's candidacy as prime minister of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3284	Let's move on. Is anyone else answering for word? We don't have anyone. So, we're going to the 2nd agenda, it's a review of approval, I'm sorry, I asked, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3285	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. There are a lot of lawyers here, but it seems to me that from the very first moment on, we will not call upon me for the only commission that is competent and I am calling for Rules of Procedure and Rule 36. Constitutional and Legal Commissions under f) where it stands: The Constitutional and Legal Commission is considering issues of legislative methodology and other important issues for the harmonisation of legal and technical processing of acts to be adopted by the House. I mean, if we want to respect the dignity of our esteemed home, the only one who can interpret at this point whether or not we have formed the BiH Parliament is the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and once again I call on the honourable lawyers here to say whether or not it should be declared in this regard very, very important issue for our further work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3286	Thank you, Ambassador Tošić. Mr. brkati Messenger.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3287	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I'd like to say very briefly. The final interpreter of constitutionality and legality we know here, unfortunately, OHR and we all know it is. We got an OHR attitude and I think that we can work on it today and I have to express another finding that surprises me. I think the Presidency brought its position on the basis of the Constitution and respected what might endanger the interests of a nation. I do not see that with this mandate the interest of the people has been compromised, because it was up to it to be a man of the order of the Croatian people and it is respected and I now see no reason why we would not listen, to see if man has succeeded in making a representative government, a government that can represent the interests of all BiH citizens and all peoples. If he can represent, God forbid he makes a good government. If it isn't, then let's not waste our time but to look for a new prime minister, once again 17, respecting the Constitution and getting off the dead end. I suggest that really this OHR interpretation, which we got on the tables, we respect, if that's the final interpreter of the Constitution, and we know that's the case right now. That Bogdo is not so, but the land of Bosnia is such that it is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3288	Thank you, Ambassador Brki. I think that the conditions have been met that we can continue the discussion under point 2 and that no one will be taken away from the word and in this context safely, we are in a position to keep the continuity in the functioning and realization of the agenda, meaning under point 2, I am asking the candidate for the Council of Ministers' Chairman on behalf of the BiH Presidency, to submit his programme of work, political programme and to simply show those of his basic thoughts, that BiH is simply going through the progress of democratisation, economic recovery, self-sustaining economy, how to simply approach the problem which is particularly present and relevant in the economic context. Here you go, Mr. Ragug. I'm sorry, I have, I'm sorry, we've given Mr. Lužanmsky a chance, everything is easy. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3289	Dear Mr. President of the House of Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honourable members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, esteemed guests, dear journalists, before I present my work programme, which I have shared in written form, therefore, in the languages of the people of the constituent peoples of BiH and in the English version because of diplomatic representatives, allow me to make my statement on the issues which two MPs have asked me as chairperson, i.e. the man who, should present the programme and receive confirmation, or a statement of this House of Representatives. I define myself according to that fact, whether there is a Parliamentary Assembly in full capacity. She doesn't exist. The Council of Ministers in full capacity cannot perform all its functions. So, I don't have anyone to file a work report, he can't resign to anyone. I can't exchange ministers without confirmation of both homes. That doesn't apply to exposés. So I have clearly responded that at this point the Council of Ministers in full office cannot perform all its functions according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is my responsibility in the end as the current chairman of the Council of Ministers to say it. But I have to respect what this House of Representatives and the Presidency does, and if you've concluded the Presidency, I'll take the exposés here. I'll take that exposé. If I may go, I thank you for the opportunity to say that I see the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, how I see the responsibility of its institutions, the role of the Council of Ministers, the priorities in the work for next year and how I think methodologically, if I get confirmation of this home to implement a plotted work programme. Before that, you will not be angry, given the public dimension of this nomination, or nomination, because I am under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, gentlemen, no one has said that here yet, appointed as an individual by and already as chairman of the Council of Ministers, it is the category of no mandate. So, I ask you to keep that category in mind, because they are important because of constitutional, political and other conventions, which will be withdrawn after this session today, and it is also the turn of Parliament to speak correctly about them. So, but I'm taking over and all I can do is get confirmation, but I'm the chairman of the presidency's decision, which has reached full consensus. Gentlemen, on the basis of 18 four elements and per month's work result, in which, according to a general assessment, the rise of the Council of Ministers' institution was restored, in which Bosnia and Herzegovina thanks to such a kind and activity. The review, as well as international representatives, has regained its role, both in the region and in Europe, and opened a number of initiatives, have concluded some agreements and contracts, which have been waiting for 4 or 5 years, such as diplomatic relations or free trade agreements, a series of bilateral or multilateral contracts, from the competence of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, projects that have opened the space to speed up and dynamicise reforms, without which BiH, as a state, which should have its own self-sustainability and perspective, cannot go forward, it was the first criterion of gentlemen, which was affirmed at the Presidency. The second criterion was the programme I put on the presidency. The third criterion was that I was willing to accept that due to the fact that the result of the parliamentary elections had not been fully articulated by the political forces, that anyone could say, I have such a majority that they could sovereignly rule and make legislative decisions, that we are going to meet a rational form of compromise, to seek an expert and expert government in which all those who are willing to take responsibility will be given the opportunity. After that, I stopped, especially the fact that no one has the right to innovate the will of political parties, whether they are national or not at the moment, but they were legitimate and legal in the elections and have received certain results. Based on all the elements, so I accepted the candidacy. I didn't take it by heart, gentlemen. Secondly, while some have disputed the will of candidacy and a month before the elections here in this same House of Representatives, in which not much has changed compared to then, questioning that institution at all, I have seen what risk I have taken and what has been done for those three and a half months, it is said a little in public. But, let it stand, that's my turn. As far as my commitment is concerned, it remains, because I am really standing on a political concept, that without engaging all relevant political forces, who want Bosnia and Herzegovina well, respecting its constitution, dignity, as well as the priorities set by the international community, we cannot seriously... from the crisis. So, I'm still offering, no matter what the result of voting is, that kind of approach and let no one say it was up to Martin Raguž, whether to form a professional or representative government. In fact, in this process, everyone who refused to talk to me was also legitimate, because I am not an individual, but a man appointed by a certain institution, the only one by the Constitution. I did not comment on it publicly, nor do I want any more talk about it, to those who directly intervened in the discussion and talks with individual MPs, who did not formally sign the Alliance's approach. Gentlemen, and they supported in the talks the first one that I had both the program and the principles and the basis for the lead on which I was exposed. That's another question, which you should tell me about, but I want it personally stenographically recorded here because of history. It's a second, very important thing I might end up talking about. Thirdly, my personal position, gentlemen, you know that this was one process where I didn't want to burden anyone, but I didn't want to agree, nor would I ever agree to all the offers I've received these days from America to Europe, to say no to my people, to be prime minister. It's a price I'll never accept, you know, never, 19 at the cost of not getting a single vote here today. I hope you understand what I said, that you will not be angry, I think it is one introduction to a serious debate, which I expect in this programme, which Bosnia and Herzegovina deserves, first and this council and this Parliament a good programme that will be mine or someone else's, I don't know, but it's time to start talking about the programme, here I am ready and I've offered. My program comes from what I have already said, that it has been done in these three and a half months, and the priorities of gentlemen, I will not read you, I will try to condense my opening presentation, in a way that, however, I will say what is most important at this time, from the responsibility of the BiH institutions, or the Council according to the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, according to the Peace Implementation Council declarations, and according to the conventions which Bosnia and Herzegovina, as internationally recognised and sovereign state have signed and taken over, and they are next. So, strengthening the institutional framework of BiH, implementing economic and social reforms, bringing in Annex 6 and 7 as well as all other external trade and foreign policy priorities, rule of law, human rights issues, the fight against corruption, organised crime and human trafficking, illegal immigration, and the first and key assumption is the stability of these institutions, including this home, the stability of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will reflect its essence and spirit, that this is a complex state community of three equal constituents, in which political will must be agreed in these institutions, of course, making sure that every citizen's interest in BiH is protected, in accordance with the Constitution and international conventions. The way I thought of doing it is, fully open communication with this home, with the House of Peoples, with the Presidency, which was already in action, with the entity governments, which I also started, because many authorities according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity constitutions have governments in all these processes and it was necessary to coordinate and harmonise these strategic things, in order for BiH to get one institutional framework in which it can assume the responsibility of gentlemen, and not wait for us to get as a mailbox every day a solution that someone will say what needs to be done in this country. I guess we are also responsible for slowly answering the fate of this country, for our children's perspective and for harmonising their relations, for respecting all differences, but also for respecting the integrity of this country. I think in these three months, I have shown that this responsibility can be taken responsibly by the institutions and that we can do without blocking the Council of Ministers and if there is a consensus, no decision has been blocked by gentlemen. Two hundred and a few points of the agenda, contracts, agreements, so, if you want to work and harmonize, you can. The highest priority for me is institutions. So, in order to strengthen them, these are the laws that BiH should pass at the level of the electoral law, to the civil service law, to the law on the home number of citizens, to the identity card, to the protection of the database, to the conduct of foreign policy, to the archives, to the Red Cross / Cross, to the Half-Polumjesec, and I have singled out only some of these laws. I also considered it necessary for the Council of Ministers to also play a role in the process of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality and, if that is the responsibility, mainly in entity authorities, but a kind of coordination of expert 20 assistance and co-operation, between the entity governments and the Council of Ministers and the international community, on this very sensitive and difficult issue, must necessarily exist. In addition to institutions, economic reforms and their total, total acceleration, the only prerequisite for money to start coming here is to open a perspective for people, because the period of donation helps and expectations that someone will keep doing things for us is behind us. Economic growth, as well as employment growth, cannot be achieved without increasing private investment, therefore the Council of Ministers aims to help create such a climate for foreign investors, as well as the development of the private sector, especially small, medium-sized enterprises, which should be the bearer of such development. In order to create this climate and create a strong competitive and stable private sector, reforms of the financial, tax, regulatory system are necessary, as well as the establishment of stable macroeconomic frameworks, which means keeping sound, fiscal and monetary policies. In ideal conditions, and I think that in the next 3-4 years, it can be done with the serious work of all of us. Bosnia and Herzegovina can psatise host transnational corporations, which would use Bosnia and Herzegovina to carry out certain productions, which can meet the needs of the entire region, because Bosnia and Herzegovina has predisposition to achieve these objectives, given its geographical location, educated labour and relatively cheap labour, but therefore our competitiveness needs to be achieved. As regards the global framework for development by 2005, as an industrial development strategy, it is necessary to coordinate with both entities, with entity governments and such a type of programme, it is necessary to ensure strategic coordination and I think that it has started in a certain way. Please, in this context of economic and economic reforms, legislative reform and the adoption of new laws is necessary, among them I would like to highlight the Law on the foundations of the restitution, the fundamental principles of the concession on the foundations of the banking system, the payment of fees, competition and consumer protection on the external trade chamber, industrial ownership and a number of other laws, through which Bosnia and Herzegovina would receive a functional, legislative dimension which could coordinate it with the international market and with the international standard. These days, not just these days in BiH, talk a lot about social problems, social challenges and social weaknesses. In order for us to have this transition process, in which we are and are slowed down, we know for what, because of the destruction and war, which stopped us in a very important period of time, when the transition was to be completed, it is necessary to carry out social reforms, which can be carried out by building institutions that need to ensure social self-sustainability and protection of the population, especially the most endangered. Economic reforms are not sufficient in themselves, and therefore I also see here a great role of both the Council of Ministers and the governments of entities, since much of the powers and social spectrum are in their jurisdiction and therefore I believe that both the medium- and long-term priorities of the Council of Ministers and the governments of entities must be a reduction in the number of socially endangered, through full reforms of social protection, pension systems and work in improving education and health care. 21 At this point, the ratio of the pensioner and the payer is one to the point zero eight, almost entirely even. For our economy and the state we're in, we don't need an extra comment, where we're in position. I do not want to promise any residual pensions, firstly it is not the authority of the Council of Ministers, but rather the government of entities and competent institutions in them, nor do I think anyone should donate to us any assistance in this way in order to resolve matters, but in my programme I believe that, in accordance with the recommendations of the World Bank and the IMF, we should introduce besides the existing way and the mandatory pillar and other voluntary ones who can be individually established and private pension funds and strengthen the framework of the institutional that can contribute to that, with the introduction of severe penalties for not paying full contributions, we can have not only a return from current contributions, but also other resources, which can improve the position of pensioners. As far as the second compatible part is concerned, it's financial reform. About them here, you see that I am not wasting your time, these financial reforms must come from having a financial mechanism, which will encourage savings, investment, and the process of forming a capital market in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that a newly formed and newly formed Ministry of Treasury institutions have begun to perform their basic functions, according to the law, on the basis of which it is founded. Therefore, the priority in this year should be to implement this Treasury Act by introducing a single Treasury account as the first phase of full implementation of the Treasury business. Completing complete sublegislative acts, which are the real conditions for the full implementation of the Treasury Act, the introduction of the main book of the Treasury, the definition of a financial strategy to support reforms, and the improvement of relations with international financial institutions. I especially want to stress that it is high time, that after the Stand Bay arrangement is up, and that is from the occasion of the fifth month o.g. Bosnia and Herzegovina has made a new, more favourable arrangement with the IMF, at least for a three-year period. The IMF's preparedness for such an approach exists. The working framework for the agreement will be set with the main goal of reducing poverty and strengthening Bosnia and Herzegovina's development opportunities. Foreign trade policy. It is also in the exclusive jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is a significant part of the reform project, without which I said we cannot move rapidly towards a self-sustainable economy and stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To achieve these reforms, the highest priority in foreign trade policy is to define the global framework of the Bosnia and Herzegovina development strategy for at least five years, because at this point we do not have this document and this document is in preparation and I think it is in a mature stage to pass the council over the next month and come before this House of Representatives. In foreign trade policy, the highest priorities are certainly the preparation and start of negotiations, according to the trade section, with the European Union on agreement and stabilisation of accession. Then, the start and possible end of the negotiations on BiH's accession to the global trade organisation, with the possibility of transferring procedural activity in the first quarter of next year, then, the promotion of our economy to 22 abroad, at various meetings, preparation for another donor conference, work within the pact and particularly bilateral contracts, you have them listed here, I would not read them, from trade contracts with Macedonia, Yugoslavia, Switzerland and a number of other countries, to investment protection contracts, customs cooperation contracts, mutual recognition agreements, certification testing, inclusion in ceft and a number of other activities, which have already started and I must say that, according to the indicators I received this morning, there is an increase in exports of 26% in the half of last year and a decrease in imports by 11%. It's official data. They are the fruit of a liberal policy led at Council of Ministers level, perhaps one of the most liberal in this part of Southeast Europe, as a assumption that our economy is co-sponsoring with somewhat wider and more serious markets. As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy is concerned, you know that determining political decisions, the position of documents in the BiH presidency, is mostly implemented through the foreign ministry, but the role of the Council of Ministers is also important in the segment. Therefore, priorities will be the implementation of the General Framework Peace Agreement, ensuring international participation in further reconstruction and development, such as building democratic institutions in BiH, bilateral co-operation, especially with neighbouring countries, and improving regional, sub-regional and other forms of co-operation through the implementation of concrete programmes and projects in line with the decisions of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and this House. The specific priorities are definitely admission to the WE, the global trade and the opening of the EU accession process. Then seeking further support for Annex VII, as well as further democratisation of our society and respect for human rights and implementation of projects under the Stability Pact, strengthening ties with emigration, is definitely open at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutionally and I think it is one of the more serious assumptions for the co-ordination of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, with numerous people from Bosnia and Herzegovina around the world. As for good neighbourly relations, I think they deserve a special comment. I think that the Council of Ministers will follow this initiative and the policy of initiative, which has already led, both in relations with the Republic of Croatia and with the established diplomatic relations with the SRJ, through the state intervening that we have with the Republic of Croatia, we need to establish on the same principle and model and interstate Council and SRJ, and go to the signing of a number of bilateral agreements and agreements, which will mean better and easier life, such as trade and customs agreements, legal assistance, refugee returns and a number of others, and with the Republic of Croatia, you know that we have the largest number of agreements ever concluded from any country, and priorities are property legal relations, border and dual citizenship agreements, which is planned to end by the third month. In the framework of the Stability Pact, it is necessary to say that the National Coordinator of BiH should finally be appointed and insisted on better participation of representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina in working bodies, such as the Labour Table of Democratisation and the strengthening of human rights, the working table 2. Economic reconstruction, development of co-operation and the third issue of security. I would especially like to raise the issue, because it is the Council of Ministers' and this home's obligation to harmonize Bosnia and Herzegovina's normative system with EU standards. In order to establish the existence of the necessary legislation at the state and entity level and at the level of which that registration is harmonised with EU legislation, the Council of Ministers should continue to analyse and process the White Paper, after which it will propose to the competent, entity and state authorities the harmonisation of laws, through amendments, additions or adoption of new laws in the areas for which it is necessary. What are the laws, something is said about it, and we can discuss it with further information. In order to fully inform you of the MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers will make up the so-called Council of Ministers when considering new laws. a list of compliance, which will be annexed to each law, when reference is made to parliamentary procedure. This list should contain a description of the Directive, which concerns matter, which is subject to law, content, as well as a review of the content of the law. The same approach and the same principle should be ensured when adopting laws under the jurisdiction of entities. Annex VII, gentlemen, represents a significant part of the programme's activity and is significantly articulated in this programme. What I'd sum up in a short word is that I don't waste any more of your time is next. So, two million and two hundred thousand people are out of their homes at the beginning of the war in Bosnia. Of these, over a million and 200 thousand sought refugee protection outside BiH, over 100 countries of the world, while internally displaced in BiH close to a million people. Today, five years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, about 625,000 refugees are still outside BiH. They are now located in about 40 countries of the world, and the largest number is still in Yugoslavia, Croatia, Germany, Scandinavian and Pre-Cean countries. From this number, it is also important to say for this home, that 325 thousand have resolved the status in those countries, through the acquisition of citizenship, the permit of permanent or temporary stay, azila, working legal status or in some other legal way. In search of some of the forms of a permanent solution, there are currently about 300 thousand of those persons, and also now we have about 400 thousand to return from outside BiH. We recently completed the re-registration process, within displaced persons. That's why about 530 grand checked in. They will confirm that status, so that at this point refugees and displaced persons, BiH citizens have around 1.15,000. Up to today, 715 thousand refugees and displaced persons have returned, up to 80% in the Federation, 20% in RS. During last year, major return progress was recorded. More than 60,000 returns, it is registered by the UNHCR, and is currently in the process of returning about 30,000. To make this process work even better, lead and organise, twelve measures are listed here, which will be advocated by the Council of Ministers, both as a joint body and through the ministry, which we have for the first time formed at the state level, which means updating of legal solutions concerning refugees and displaced persons, coordination within entities, coordination with the international community, we have established a fund for returning to the country level and adopted a priority return project. Defined and signed several bilateral agreements with Croatia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Italy and Turkey have been actively involved for the first time in OHR and RTIF structures, and for the first time this year we have signed a protocol on a harmonised list of priorities, places, numbers of houses and apartments, which will be carried out with international community and domestic institutions in the entire BiH area. The same shift was made in the EU structure, and with the Republic of Croatia we formed an interstate commission, we also offered the SRJ. 24 So, in addition, it is necessary to round up the complete system, registering and forming at BiH level, in order to make this balanced, this process that will continue to be one of the strategic and greatest priorities for all of us, and here we go slowly with a little more patience please. The fight against corruption is one of the issues that has been raised by both the international community and the local public, and is strongly encouraged by certain party programmes, whether the parties that have been in power so far have been oppositions, i.e. the parties that now have the result and predence to form power and I believe that, in this sense, the Council of Ministers should adopt a general anti-corruption strategy, which should identify the sources that generate corruption, bring a set of laws and other rules to institutions, which will enable the fight against corruption, better public involvement, preventive measures, then further activities to establish the rule of law in BiH, which is also one of the major challenges. To this end, an anti-corruption team should be set up which would be authorised to monitor and exercise the supervision of this strategy, and to pass a law on the fight against corruption and organised crime, and to ratify the Criminal and Legal Convention and the Civil-Legal Convention on Corruption. As far as the state border is concerned, I must say that what the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has done and, with the help of the international community, one of the strong levers for regulating the state border of BiH, has been put into operation, that this is still unsatisfactory, of course, level, but that according to the latest information we had last week, but in the next month and a half, the State Border Service should be controlled 65% of the borders of BiH, and very quickly behind this and the entire border line, and for a year and a half according to the project that we proposed and for which we stood financially, not only financially, but also the regulations, should become self-sustainable and, together with the entity bodies, fully control the borders of BiH. As for international donations, I think it is necessary to reach a register of international donors, the amounts and types of funds paid for the recovery, to establish a project register, to adopt rules and procedures, and to prepare this together with the entity governments as a report on the consumption of complete international assistance and to deliver it to this House of Representatives. As far as the judicial system and the judicial system are concerned, we know that the High Representative has passed the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, which is why it is necessary to prepare the accompanying sublaws and legal acts, including the regulation of the proceedings before this court and the regulation of the public prosecutor's office. Illegal immigration, organised crime and human trafficking are issues that are extremely burdening all of us in BiH and that I think must be one top priority in the work of the Council and the work of this home. Bosnia and Herzegovina recently put its signature on the UN Convention and protocols on the fight against transnational organised crime, illegal immigration and human trafficking. 25 The BiH institutions and entities will work together with relevant international organisations and governments to combat illegal immigration and organised crime and human trafficking, as well as to implement conventions and protocols. In this respect, as priority tasks, relevant legal and sublegal acts shall be laid down either at the state level or at the entity level. A question of human rights. The issue of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as a universal law, is a fundamental issue of BiH, as a country whose commitment is to join the WE and join democratic and civilised societies. That is why I believe that the key priorities in this area would be, sustainable return, legislative reform, strengthening human rights institutions and respecting international conventions and agreements. That is why I think it is necessary to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Human Rights, which is both human and educational because it is newly formed, its cooperation with the competent human rights institutions it has in BiH enough, and especially since aneks vi is founded the Human Rights and Ombudsman BiH House, and whose work has been extended for another three years, to find mechanisms for these bodies' decisions to be implemented more correctly and qualityd, than it has been so far. The resolution ministry will prepare a project at BiH level to plan the education of personnel from this segment, seminars on education, providing the necessary literature and assistance of international organisations, both governmental and non-governmental. I think we should mention the laws declared by the High Representative. This council should put them in the process and therefore have an active relationship with these laws. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, during its work and the work of the expert groups, which will only form a discussion of the need and constitutional justification for the adoption and other regulations, in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is necessary for the functioning of the institutions, the rule of law, the protection of constitutional rights of all constituent peoples, the protection of citizens, the construction of the greatest standards of human rights, and, finally, once again after this programme, to show my willingness to answer all your questions, both on the programme and on the future methodology, to show my willingness to work with all those who are willing to seek a formula for harmonisation of relations in BiH and harmonisation and not to face exclusion, which would involve a number of things, respect for the institutional order, legitimately beloved constituent nations, as well as democratic principles and practices that should be promoted in this House and forward. I thank you for the opportunity to present the program to this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3290	I would like to thank Mr Raguž, the chairman of the Council of Ministers for this exhaustive presentation, for the 2002 Work Programme, on a well-designed and synthetic document, which objectively gives the opportunity to present its constitutional challenge, a temptation for each MP, to give its opinion and a reference to 26 of what Mr. Prime Ministers' Council Chairman pointed out in his presentation. Here, I'm opening a discussion on the submitted exposé. Mr. Miro Grabovac is a member of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3291	Based on plan 62, I'm looking for an item on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3292	Okay, half-hour break. I propose that we continue to implement point 2, following the presentation of the Council of Ministers chairman, the BiH Presidency's decision, I open an exposé debate on the programme of the Council of Ministers' activities in the current year 2001. [[PAUZA]] Here you go. Who's answering for a word? I think the report is a real challenge for discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3293	Dear President, honourable members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I feel here the need for Mr Raguž, as a man who presented his work programme to the Council of Ministers for 2001, to give recognition and to give full support to this presented work programme. I also express my gratitude for all that he has done for these three months, and this could also be seen from the reports he has submitted. I would say here that I especially congratulate him on the courage to accept such a challenge, because and now in some way I'm a certain-shorter period in executive power, I know very well how difficult it is at this point to talk rationally, to know what the problems are, and to bear the optimism that I should wear at this point in these positions. I'm telling you, there are a lot more problems than maybe many of us here understand and want to understand, because mostly most of us live well, and it's not our problem, what a lot of the people are feeling right now. There is no magic wand that can solve all these problems and those who talk and promise, cheat, deceive themselves first, and maybe cheat their own electoral body. The essence of today's debate is not in this programme. The point is that today we need to determine whether at this level it will come to majorisation not to say and imaginativeize individuals and we all know that and we are aware of what today's statement is wearing. I was asked by a representative of the international community the other day in the conversation, what relationship between HDZ and the SDA, I replied, HDZ is very easy to define in this time of its views, he has a electoral body behind him and has the views of the electoral body and he can very easily express those views. If he doesn't, there's a hundred ways to check it. However, the problem with the SDA is that its electoral body has broken into three parts. I'm not going in there, that's the problem with that electoral body, because the state of Herzegovina is, above all, three constituent equal nations. This is 27, among other things, the foundation of Badinter's sefinition, and on the basis of which then BiH became a state. Also, you should know and ask the question, who today can be relevant partners, co-workers, who are the relevant politicians. We can, the one who has, say, the power to ignore it all, he acts like he does. I can also say that media propaganda or the media, so little they write positive about something that bears the Croatian omen, that it should be alarming for those who enjoy it. I also noticed at this session that a number of representatives with pleasure, I would say, accepts a condition that we have today in this room. Clearly, the force of the argument cannot be against the argument of force. We do not need to address the international community today. Representatives of the international community need us and we cannot do without them, but representatives of the international community need to understand that we need to regulate relations here between the three peoples. We ourselves need to agree however and only then BiH has a future. We're fooling ourselves, if I have to think today about whether my children should grow up in belief, to live in a community that provides them with a future. I'm not sure after this day, that I will, and I am living in such conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3294	Thank you, Representative Vukić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Beriz Belkić, MP of the Party for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3295	I just want to talk about the offered program. So, with all due respect to Mr. Raguž who made an effort to prepare this document for this House of Representatives and to recognize, or appreciate the way he communicated with the House of Representatives, I would like to say the following about the programme itself. A personal remark or reason why the Party of BiH MPs' club could not support this programme is in the next. The problems are well marked, indicated, but no concrete solutions are offered, and above all fast solutions and this solution is a short term better said. Namely, the programme for 2001 was offered, so the title is, and the content is more suitable for solving the problem, for a longer period and at best for the medium term. We all agreed on the situation in this country. For example, me and my colleagues at the club couldn't find answers how to get those investments right away or in the fast run that we're all talking about, which is a question of all sorts of questions. Furthermore, there is no answer as to how and how to fight poverty, it is said exactly about social reforms, however, we have something else at this time. So, it's just some of the concrete things that we're not going in now, of course we didn't expect to be offered here at the House of Representatives for every single thing, etc., but the personal remark to repeat it is that we were offered a program for 2001, and practically in its content it offers some solutions that could naturally be discussed, in the medium or long term, we need solutions right now. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3296	I thank Ambassador Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3297	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency and MPs, we have before us this programme of work of the Council of Ministers for 2001. I believe that he overall well-conceived and gave indications of the jobs and tasks to be carried out in 2001, particularly the Council of Ministers underlines social reforms and financial reforms. I believe that social reforms here are very well indicated, that the number of socially endangered and social protection systems, the state of pensioners throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as health care is worrying. I believe that each of these points, the indications given in the program, should be operationally and planfully elaborated beyond, through a detailed programme and plan for 2001. I would in particular underline these financial reforms, which are indicated in this plan, because the objective of financial reforms, should go towards creating a self-sustainable economy. I don't think the only drawback is a lack, but it's not likely that, under these reforms, it's a sign of raising production levels and jobs that are expected to continue the privatisation process. I believe that, going towards the goal of a self-sustainable economy, these are two important things, so, firmly and thoroughly, to carry out the procedure, I thank Mr. Tuševljak. I think that raising the level of production we can't plan in 2001, if we don't create our own economy, we can't plead to results and our whole lives from donations and help. So, I think the program here, I'm sorry maybe I didn't see well, that really produced, privatized, and that some of the questions have been touched, and I think they're very important. However, this is not an obstacle, not to support the mandater, not to support this programme of his, with certain things being further defined and elaborated. I thank you once again for your attention, and the chairman at the table...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3298	Thank you, Ambassador Kovačević. Who's next to the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3299	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues MPs, naturally I don't want to speak much of this occasion, for one single reason, which I think we have already lost enough time over the past few weeks, as we have seen today and today in a certain way, that it is possible to extend this state in which it is, at times procedurally, sometimes using political and sometimes other methods. So I just want a few hints to say about what we had a chance to hear today, first of all about the program itself and a few words we heard about the program. I must say that it is quite natural for the Prime Minister, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who we heard today, when I say the mandater, to use collogenial terminology, or use the terminology that was heard in this House some year and a half ago, when the Constitutional Court informed us that we have an unconstitutional situation that we have so-called. The co-chair of the Council of Ministers and then the Constitutional Court of 29 informed us as an interpreter of the relevant constitution, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, acting as the appointment of the Council of Ministers, may well be heard today. In any case, what he has presented to us today as chairman of the Council of Ministers, appointed by the Presidency, in accordance with the Constitution, I think it is perfectly natural to get the support of anyone who considers it necessary to offer one continuity programme. If you want continuity, then this is a perfectly logical state, a perfectly logical program. I belong again to the people and to this Parliament and I believe that in this Parliament most of us believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs both Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities and its peoples, and to God and all citizens, something called change. Change in the state we live in today. I must admit that I expected, in the absence of reports or reports, which the Council of Ministers and in accordance with the Constitution, could, however, have delivered in some way, for this annual period, because, let me remind you, we have received a report in front of us on the last four months, since Mr. Raguž, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and we objectively have the Council of Ministers who, in the unaltered composition, has been working practically for a year, and now we have Mr. Raguž, who has practically chaired the Council of Ministers as well as before. We, to remind you, had in front of us a little over a year ago a programme of work of the Parliamentary Assembly, which was binding on the Council of Ministers. This work programme, there's no need for me to go into detailed analysis now, shows very clearly that what we've adopted, as a work programme, has not been implemented to the least. On the other hand, here we could hear and see really in this program of work, some data, which speaks enough in favor of, that we should turn the page and move in one different way over the next period. In fact, we could see here that even according to the Council of Ministers, or the competent ministry, over 200,000 people, over two hundred thousand people, this says 210 left Bosnia and Herzegovina after the Dayton Agreement. It went into a situation where there was no war, over two hundred. We could also read a sentence here, which is unfortunately cruelly accurate. It is said that it is difficult to assess how many people in the truth want to return to BiH, and that is why it is enough to ask for a Council of Ministers, a programme that will take us away from the continuity that we have from the Dayton Agreement to this day. Here we have heard, too, some very favourable indicators, which speak about where we are economically. We were told that exports increased and imports decreased. Which I believe is true. However, what is also true and what is actually much worse for us, which is last year, a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina, somewhere around 50% of the social product, which has not yet approached two-thirds of the social product since before the war, and about 50% of that social product, practically either in the trade deficit. The country's trade deficit is so high that it can't practically stand. I'm also obliged to say, on this occasion, something that doesn't resemble this program, and what it was about. You see, in these three weeks, three weeks, 30 three weeks, three hefts, call it whatever you want, but the vast amount of time has passed. We have seen an attempt to establish a council of ministers, which would respond to an appropriate programme, to the challenge of time. We have in these three weeks on the constitution of the Council of Ministers and in the public, and in mutual communication, convinced ourselves of much that this should be stopped, that something else should indeed be offered instead of continuity. In fact, you see, we are all serious political people, who have come here and we want this country to get the government and the government and the government and the Council of Ministers and the administration that will bring us closer to European integration flows and what will make us a country that, as we often say here, is economically self-sustainable, in the context of global movements. However, we have, for a few, the last twenty days, in fact, in the extreme case of Mr Raguž as the current chairman of the Council of Ministers, heard that he was subjected to various pressures. There's something to say about that, which I don't want to say about. We've also heard from the most responsible people in the country that they're being pressured. I must say that we are, unfortunately, a country where we are still more determined outside the country than in the country itself, and that is the tragedy that affects us most. Fortunately, I think it is very good for all of us, regardless of the pressures we are exposed to, to be determined by our own conscience, by respecting the will and the electoral body behind us, respecting both the will and the peoples of the constituent, equal in all the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all its citizens. You see, here's what happened to me, I don't know, now I can't remember, but let's say once a representative of the international community, who was saying something that I don't think is right at all. I have to admit, it never occurred to me that after that, I complain that a man puts pressure on me. I said, I appreciate your attitude, but I have a different opinion and I'm bringing it out here now. We are unfortunately in a country where the International Community has much greater influence and influence than it is good for us, but it is our tragedy, but at the same time our happiness is sometimes that mechanisms exist in the absence of our own mechanisms, which will help us to be closer to Europe. We are in the sight of the greatest pressure, which perhaps the Bosnian Herzegovina public experienced could be seen by the leaders of the Bosnian-Herzegovina state. I'm sorry Mr. Radišić isn't here. You see, there's a way to stop this. We need to stop this playing with both the domestic and the international public and our political responsibility. We've touched the last step. We could hear that, after Iraq, Libya and North Korea and here are the unwanted ambassadors of some countries, who are just unwanted in those countries. It needs to be shut down. I'm not saying ambassadors who do their job here don't say what I don't like to hear either. On the contrary, I hear it as much as we all do, but we still need to know and have a measure and not let us go where this country hasn't been even when it's been in the worst part of its history for the last ten years. We have never compared ourselves to countries like Iraq and Libya, but here we come in a certain way to these branches. And, in the end, none of us should behave differently than on our own conscience. We all answer to our own electoral body, answer the Constitution and the law, and answer to our own people both politically and ethnically, and I think it's past the time when anyone in this country has the right to speak exclusively on behalf of the entire people, whether political or ethnic. Thank Bog that these times are behind us and that we are entering a slightly different calmer water in which we want to be in Europe, but we show that we also have the strength to do so. Not every time we choose the Council of Ministers, we will say that we will enter the Council of Europe very quickly, and here we are for five years. The time of discontinuity has come with what has been in the last four years. The sooner we figure it out, and we all go together to build this country into a normal country where it's built on the principle of one-2-3-4, one state, two equal entities, three equal constituent peoples in all of its territory, and possibly four million not so many unhappy people. We don't have time anymore. Don't waste any more time. We'll all be better together, maybe some of us ourselves, right now, worse, but better for all of us, if we break up with the continuity policy that has been offered objectively today and that has been offered procedurally by talking about this. It is quite logical that this discussion can conclude that the SDP Parliament Club will not support this candidate either, or participate in the confirmation of the Council of Ministers chairman nor accepts such a programme, nor accepts that we continue to go on the path that has been going for a long time. I thank you and hope that we will all be closer together to one different country than the one we live in today, which we all from this pay phone actually swear to and often do not work accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3300	I thank Ambassador Lagumdžija. Replica, that is, has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3301	I thank all the comments and Mr. Lagumdžija, of course, you can see how things are going. No details of the program are commented. It's generally said we don't accept it. The second thing, I have made a discontinuity with the practice so far practically taking over the Council in the most difficult times and opening up space for the BH economy everywhere. It was my discontinuity, compared to those who blocked the Council's laws by co-chairing and who are now the leaders of the Alliance. That was my particular contribution, one of and... I have to be exact and explicit. I'm for change, gentlemen. Find some relevant international clerk who didn't verify this latest paper, let's not let Martin Raguž tell you that. I don't want to talk about it. Is it noticeable discontinuity, whether it's taken responsibility, whether it's meant for the good of everyone here and what it's possible to do in three months in one situation when there's been a naked political struggle. I'm not saying it's ideal, but let's talk about the arguments. I'm not asking for confirmation either of Mr. Lagumdžija etc., but that kind of paushalism, don't think it'll be so easy to pass, of course, on the principle of change, it'll go a long way, but a sure bou diet, a change of constitutional and legal order, at the expense of a constituent people won't pass Mr. Lagumdžija. It won't pass you've written in your Alijansa program, you've handed it over to the Office of the High Representative, a majority decision at the Council of Ministers, an institution that should maintain the will of both the people and the citizens and that needs to harmonize relations, and not here create fear of what will be in certain circumstances tomorrow. Secondly, I gave you concrete paper. Tell us what is not of the contracts and projects, concrete agreements, of the free trade contract, gentlemen The Chamber of Commerce argues that this year, based on a contract that has not been concluded for four years, 60% of BH exports will be larger. If it's not my specific contribution in 32 months, I don't know what it is. If not all credit agreements and agreements with the European Commission, which from institution building to economic recovery and other sets of things, is what was in three months. Is that enough or not, but don't say it's continuity and that this program is continuity and that I have no right to offer this home, based on a legal proposal, a programme that also coordinates with European and modern, it's not a serious story. It may not be enough for me to pass in Parliament, but it can't be true and I don't have to pass in Parliament, prepare that we will measure and measure your responsibility and how you will run a particular stock, and I am ready, with my cheek to say that I am my share in three and a half months...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3302	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. There were two replicas. Lagumdžija ambassador to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3303	I wouldn't have answered the replica right away if Mr. Raguž hadn't initiated something that I didn't think was common to us that after one discussion as a man who very patiently exposed his program and waited very patiently for us, and we also have three weeks, three weeks, three hefts to address us, but I am obliged to say a few words about what was now said. Namely, he's blaming the quote. Not a word has been said about the program. Just to say that what I just did, you can go to the stenogram quote, quote, it's hard to tell exactly how many people in the truth want to go back to BiH, page 8, fourth paragraph from above, I have commented directly on your programme as an illustration and the fifth paragraph from above, quote, over 210,000 people have left BiH through various programmes, etc. It's about concrete consideration. We've heard here that we'll meet again. We heard here that what I was saying wasn't serious. I believe it is said, however, in an act that was a little bit rash, the fact that it was immediately replicated, probably speaking in a raised tone, are probably about which there's probably a reason for that kind of thing. However, I am obliged here to also say that, since we are very clear in the introductory indications, among other things” that we should not talk about pensions and that there will be no talking about pensions and pensions, that there should not be any promises for that species, and then very clearly and precisely said here that there will be an audit of existing pension rights without elaborated on what it is. Let me get into such details as a sentence that says, that an audit of existing pension rights will be done, allow yourself that sentence is enough to be a little bit more serious about this, but I don't want to go into the crowd of such sentences, because they themselves are not such that they should come to them at all and, finally, Mr. Chairman, I have only one thing to say very clearly and loudly from this pay phone. At the expense of one constitutive nation or anyone, the other and the third and the two and all three, the SDP is a political party that will never, in any way, do anything that is at the heart of any constituent people. Since I was told behind this pay phone here that my statement pointed out that what the Alliance or the SDP or I am doing is at the expense of one of the constituent people, I want to say very clearly and clearly from this speaker SDP is a political party that will insist and 33 always fight for all three constituent nations to be equal in the whole territory of BiH and I want it to be known, and I would not say no to my people, excuse me, leave for some other historical time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3304	Thank you, Ambassador Lagumdžija. Mr. Lužanski's representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3305	First of all, I can say thank Bog that I do not belong to those categories of political beings who speak much and say nothing, and therefore I will be concrete and brief, and I am encouraged by the debates of the predecessors, so fellow MPs, who did not have any essential fundamental objections to the work and formerly today's candidate for the chairman-in-Office of the Council as well as the programme he offered, except for one fundamental remark, which I respect from Mr Belkić, who was clear and unequivocally in that direction. What Mr Raguž has done over the past three months in three and a half months of his chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, surely according to the HDZ Representatives Club, deserves a high-level audience. Also, the programme offered in the club's view deserves debate, because today I expected that after Mr Raguž's presentation, we would open a debate on the validity or invalidity of the programme, whether it is justified or not. But unfortunately, as I have concluded, there were no major fundamental remarks, and therefore on behalf of the HDZ Club, we give full support to Mr Raguž as well as the proposed programme for 2001. I sincerely hope that Mr Raguž will be today and confirmed by this high Parliament, for the reason that, through his 2001 programme, he has offered what is needed and what is missing to this country, has offered Parliament the opportunity to discuss, confirm or reject a number of laws from different areas that certainly mean a great deal to BiH's future in the future. With Mr. Raguž in charge, who offers changes through his programme, BiH will certainly be able to take large steps towards improving all its peoples and citizens. Furthermore, those who today, of course by their conscience, without any pressure from anyone to vote on Prime Minister Raguž, must bear in mind, those who are against, that they will vote in favour of the blockade and this parliament, that they will vote in favour of the BiH presidency's blockade, that they will vote in favour of the Council of Ministers' blockade. In the end, I want to congratulate Mr. Raguž on his courage, thank him for what he did, wish him as the person who will receive today's support, a lot of success in his work and tell him, Mr. Raguž, regardless of the results of the vote, you are the winner in this political game.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3306	I thank Ambassador lužanski. Ambassador drag Stanimirović. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3307	Let me begin my first address to the House of Representatives, first of all, I think I will rely on the opinion of those MPs who consider it necessary that the current chairman of the Council of Ministers submit a report on the work in the previous period, if he is already discussing the continuity of the current Council of Ministers. Instead, we only received a document called the BiH Council of Ministers' activities for the period from 18 October to 1 February. As we know, on October 18th, there was only a rotation in the Council of Ministers no more significant change of mandate, nor the Council of Ministers' composition this day. So it would be logical to get a work report for at least 2000 years. Instead, we're told, so instead of the responsibility that must be the basic principle, every political action, we're told about it, so I'm going to try to be specific, because I have concrete grudges on the work programme that I'm now going through. So instead of having the responsibility of the existing Council of Ministers, we are told on page 1 below the last paragraph, that the principle... or the takeover of the responsibility of the competent institutions should be in the future their way of working, which I welcome, since this was obviously not the way to work so far. Secondly, we expected to get more concrete provisions on the country's disastrous economic and social and political situation, instead, through the discussion, to carry out the way the proposed programme was assessed, in a way that would bring optimism, and thus the proposed chairman of the Council of Ministers, in a way that he said on page 2, again the last paragraph, that it was of exceptional importance to attract tough investors and that BiH could, in ideal conditions, become one of the leading countries, etc. to which he even added in his statement that he deeply believes that this will happen over the next four years, and that therefore we did not get any chance of valid arguments, based on which they themselves would come to this assessment. Thirdly, I will also relate to this part of which is said that pensioners' rights are compromised and then, I guess, as the possibility of resolving them, it is proposed to re-examine existing pension rights, i.e. to revise the existing pension rights, which I guess our more vulnerable layers of the population should be seen as a threat to further worsening their existing economic and social situation. Next, on page 5. When it comes to trade policy, instead of submitting a fundamental responsibility for which BiH is not yet in the Ve, nor in the Partnership for Peace, that we are not talking about a world trade organisation, we are again given principles and phrases, so let's say in the first paragraph, that we should give priority to foreign-trade policy, but then in the next sentence, that measures to implement this policy will work within the global framework on e.g. The BiH Development Strategy, for the period 2001-2005, if the feeling does not deceive me, we are already in 2001. And since this council of ministers is seeking in some way approval to continue the contiguousness of its work, then one of the elements of its responsibility should be that there is no global framework at all. The development strategies for this next five-year period, which we have already entered, continue to be at the point of the 2nd June and trade measures, the start and possible end of the negotiations on BiH's accession to the World Trade Organisation, etc. This has not yet begun and will eventually end, which has no deadlines or clear measures 35 on how this will be implemented and finally in point 4. It is said that the preparation and maintenance of a donor conference to obtain funds in order to further restore the destroyed potential in BiH and ensure basic assumptions for the implementation of the strategy for the development of a self-sustainable economy, which we think is another, such a rather demagogue phrase, because I am afraid that the time of the donor conference by the international community is over, and it is especially over if there is no change in the current work of the Council of Ministers, if this situation continues, we are all witnessing that no donor conference, for similar reasons, has been held last year, are all known to you that we are not returning to it. Next, on page 7. It is said that Bosnia and Herzegovina diplomacy, so I am talking about foreign policy will make efforts to achieve, and I am now quoting: “The image of an open and capable talker and partner in establishing co-operation on friendly partner grounds”. This is what it looks like so far, and as BiH's position in the world looks like, we could see it at the Zagreb Summit, we could see in the last days, probably the latest contribution of yesterday's BiH presidency member, is likely to be a statement that will greatly improve our image in international organisations. On page 8, aneks vi talks about the state of the refugees and the displaced, and already in the first sentence is a very interesting definition of their position, so it is said that from your pre-war domiciles in BiH, imagine that about 2 million and 200,000 people are in motion, which is indeed an interesting contribution to the political situation and the fight, and I am not talking about it, I think that Mr Lagumdžija mentioned this, that in principle, therefore, we are talking about these data, without a clear strategy on how to fix it, and it is said that more than 210,000 people have left the country only in the post-war period, but they have probably encouraged the situation in the country and the measures that have been taken so far, by all institutions in BiH, meanwhile, found accommodation in third countries. On page 9, paragraph 11, item 11 is spoken with all other measures to be taken and so far not done, in order to complete the system and record and information at BiH level. I completely agree, the real question is what it hasn't been done for today. Then, on page 10th point 12th of the first sentence, defining a strategy on the issue of the BiH diaspora, so you recognise as well as all other elements, we come to the conclusion that at this moment there is no strategy, any determination, according to millions of our citizens living outside the country, that is already sufficient to assess work, both the entity's current authorities and the existing Council of Ministers. And, finally, when it comes to fighting corruption, it is said that by adopting a general anti-corruption strategy, then we need to identify the system, or sources that generate corruption, imagine we haven't yet defined even what generates corruption in the country, let alone any plan to fight corruption, and then there goes on the whole side of what should be done, which, of course, has not been done so far. On page 11, it says, what I was discussing was at the beginning. The BiH Council of Ministers and the entity government will prepare a report on the spending of 36 international aid and loans and donations from 1995-2000. So, another example of how the report is not submitted, how they are being prepared, and how perhaps for the next ten years if God does not keep this continuity of power, they may be submitted, but they will be prepared, at least so suggests a proposed mandate for the Council of Ministers chairman. And, finally under the number 13 of these remarks, which is likely to be the result of the vote after this I will not predict, the result of the vote, I have probably decided to make only 13 objections to this proposed proposal for a Council of Ministers programme. It is said on the last page, page 12, that educational methods need to develop awareness with competent authorities, it is indeed another contribution, to develop awareness with competent authorities that the ombudsman institution needs democratic achievement in the service of human rights protection and that decisions should be implemented, we will influence the institutions' awareness that decisions should be implemented. It's really another extraordinary structure. And, therefore, in order not to take up the time of the other MPs, I have stuck to this number 13 and that is my assessment of the proposed work programme of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3308	Thank you, MP Stanimirović, has the word of Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3309	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I understand, of course, people when they make an oversight, because they may think they're arguments, so that's the way, and when it comes to today's situation, I'm absolutely salgassed that it's about getting into calm waters, in the biology of that calm water they call bars and I think it's here today and it's what you saw. Just for the sake of reminding the public and you, it's funny to you, I honestly think it is. Here's what I mean, because of course I want to explain every thought I have. Today, the candidate for the chairman said: “That there is no Parliament Assembly for him, to say if he is elected that the Council of Ministers will not be able to work in accordance with the Constitution and that they will not be able to submit reports, that no one will be able to replace him”, and that is all true, and then comes to the Kolegijum and says: “One member says that there is no House of People, that there is no Parliamentary Assembly, that there is no choice, the other says that everything is fine, that everything is in accordance with the Constitution and what is written and forwarded, by OHR, considering this writing and my opinion”, which I respect and accept, and then the third says, “that it is not so that he has a slightly different opinion and that it can be slightly different” and I accept, what to do so is the situation. Please, this may be funny to you, but this can be read from a stenogram, that, and then it is added that the Supreme Interpreter of the Constitution is OHR, and then one MP asks what's going on with the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and of course, that constitutional one has to fall off, because it comes as a surplus, so let's keep it legal, and then we'll see what we're going to do next, and no one at that moment has reacted to say that our body needs to meet and say it even said it wrong, but to say what he thinks about it, and then the ambassador comes along and says that it would be good in such a situation to take the point off the agenda and to vote on it, and then to ignore it as if nothing has been said and to go on. We're going into one situation, which is what it is. 37 Please, I think it would be good, and I wanted to truly discuss the arguments today, to discuss the arguments of both the programme and what the people here have put forward as a questionable for the good and quality of the functioning of this home. However, it was obviously of no interest to anyone. Obviously, this program, Mr. Raguž, is so inspiring that it caused public attention while it was gone, because how else to interpret that at least here it's heard about the program. I respect both you and your program and I think he's expressing the reality of the situation we're in. The reality of the situation expresses and what you said at the beginning as the opening part of your exposure, that's our reality, but please, it obviously doesn't interest anyone. I think, gentlemen, that you who choose to work in this state will, of course, be willing to take responsibility for what you do. I will not, of course, participate in that responsibility of yours and I will not participate in that program of yours that you are about to say something new, continue, change etc. But be prepared to bear responsibility for the people and what may happen after this condition as we have found today. Of course, if you do it on a good trip, congratulations to you. But, gentlemen, if you go the wrong way, make a note somewhere that you are on time warned that you are not doing it. You're bringing us gentlemen into something that's risky. I'm not going to mention another expression, so I won't hurt you, because I have no intention, in the end and before, I said I can't even stop you democratically, because you say you have a majority, and that's going to be obvious. I ask only those who will participate in some new programmes, which suggest the abolition of entities, which propose a series of legislative projects, which are contrary to the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, because they abolish entity jurisdiction, I ask those who spoke differently during the campaign, how they will now behave and we will mark it. To record for the future. To record for those who have given you confidence and to record so that we know how consistent you are or not. Gentlemen, I think one thing is that it would be a good idea to reach a conclusion today that would help us to enter into a good and perspective future, which is that the more urgent it is to establish the House of Peoples of this Parliament, so that as humans here, we can work and not deal with procedural matters, but essential things. I ask you to draw that conclusion as quickly as possible and to work on that conclusion as quickly as possible. Of course, as a man, I will participate constantly in the debate and help the discussions to at least hear the truth. Of course, I'm not going to plead until the legal conditions and constitutional conditions for a plea are established, but in the end and silence is a statement, and please accept this as my most human most generous wish, because I have nothing and against those who meet secretly and it is their right and it is their right to press each other with arguments, of course, and I will not go into these things as well as what they've talked about, I hope they've talked to arguments, by the power of arguments, and not by power, but I have one only, one dilemma, which they hide from the people if they think well. I would have them in front of the people, and not to deny meeting, for it is their right and their meeting. Well, thank you very much, I hope you got me right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3310	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac, we do not have a clear address. Is it a replica, Mr. Šašivarević or a discussion? Here's your replica. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3311	The esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the 7th Force and dear guests from the international community. I support my colleague Banjac when it comes to the proposal for the establishment of the House of Peoples, but at the same time I would ask you to use your unlimited authority in the SDS party as soon as possible to form the House of Peoples in the RS Assembly. Especially since we know there's a Constitutional Court decision on constitutionality, so I'd like to ask Mr. Banjac to put his finger on it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3312	Replica, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3313	I Banjalučanin like to say thank you very much if he thinks that I have an unlimited impact, where I am fortunate to have a certain influence of course and I am ready to always do an MP, everything that is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and in that direction I will work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3314	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Discussion Mirza Kušljugić, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3315	Dear members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the chairmanship, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw out one thing that is clear all the time from how long the procedure for the appointment and confirmation of the mandate for the Council of Ministers has taken place. This is where we heard Mr. Raguž say the program he offered was a change program. Obviously, behind this programme, as he calls it, there is also a concept of political strength, which supports these changes. What I heard about this speaker was that the commendable words in this programme were expressed by HDZ representatives, which is perfectly natural and the SDS. I would ask that it be consistent until the end, because last time he asked us to form, how he then announced a government that will have stable political support in this parliament, which will be the government of technical experts of the government or the representative program as a paper, is illusory to discuss, if it does not go with it what is called the concept of political forces, I stress the political forces that this programme will implement, is I think it is not economic reform, that it is not the economic reforms that will integrate BiH, that they can be one of the processes, but that we need to know, in addition, what political concept this programme that is presented here is meant to be realized. Because of the troga, I am not ready to talk more in detail about this programme today, because I think it is kind of deplaced, if as well as any serious parliamentary assembly, unless we know what the political forces are that will eventually realize it. I hope Mr. Raguž, if he is at the end of all the discussions, will take the floor and answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3316	I would like to thank Ambassador Kušljugić. Representative Baković. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3317	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I would like to say a few words about the Council of Ministers' work programme in BiH for 2001, offered by Mr Raguž. I think this programme is consistent, that it has one vision and a real vision, a vision that could be realized and that would give BiH a new face, one better and more favourable face. The first thing I like is the emphasis of strengthening BiH institutions. No matter how much this looks like anacronicity right now, maybe as a phrase, as something that survives, and that might fall into some kind of robbery... politics and history, I think this is also relevant now. BiH, suffers the most because it has not been institutionally composed yet and no matter what we say or say, regardless of political parties, which are shown here and on certain options etc. I think it's the basic and greatest drawback. BiH is not set up in an institutional sense, and it lacks one who would succeed there, I think it would be a winner and a laurel crown should be placed on his head. So far, what Mr. Raguž, as chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, has done, is a certain guarantee that other things should be done. First, he's a workin, hardworking, modest, simple. There's no phrases, there's no bombings, there's no triumphal performances, and that's one guarantee. There's not even political suffocating, which is proof that it belongs to those people, to those people who are eager to work and to do something and to affirm themselves through work, not just through some political belonging. Furthermore, there are a few things here that also include one vision, an opening to the abroad. I think that's what BiH needs. The fight against crime, the fight against drugs, the fight against corruption, that's what she needs. It's not finished, it's all current and it's all on the agenda. But something else irritates me and always acts on me provocatively, although I do seem bored to return to it all the time. I'm being irritated by what some politicians do, not only in this Bosnian Herzegovaan space, but in other words, a little wider dealings with someone now, do some term, some vocabulary, changes, changes, gentlemen what kind of change it is. What are changes? Change has two types of language. Change up and change better. What kind of change we want and who guarantees us if it brings any changes or creates an atmosphere for change, what changes you will make, and whether these changes guarantee that the situation will go better or perhaps worse. Whoever knows this world's history, ordinary people, we can look back a little on things, through the history of the human race, there were a lot of resolutions, it's so-called. radical fundamental changes. What these revolutions have brought. They brought nothing but evil and nothing more. Are they, are we supposed to cry out for these changes now? Whoever gets so far into these diabolical media into our heads, change is a salvation. What kind of changes? Who guarantees it? On such a basis, such infrastructure changes happen to be something to us. And now, only in fashion is destruction, niylism, niylism achieved, negation, and in anyone who works, deny who you immediately, here you are, affirming yourself. Is that something? What does that even mean? Can't we think more of one, one simple logic, common sense? Who can guarantee in BiH now that any changes and that by 40 of which power, perhaps they should be analysed as well. Who are these people? What guarantees that they will bring some changes to the better? That they would create this earthly paradise. That this will be a haman promised land, where honey and milk will flow. Oh, my Bog. So, haven't these people who have worked, in the executive and legislative power, worked, had some sense, some brain, some restraint, used some technical and technological achievements, formula, etc. and what they're telling us now is change. If you look at the newspaper, the newspaper only sings the “changes – Changes”, who will give money, who will make money, who will create an economy, are they just some changes? Well, it's a season, so it's all about nature. The day changes, spring comes, winter comes, these are changes. We all change things, and Mr. Raguž, if he were elected, he would bring change absolutely, even if in the most literal sense he continued with continuity. There would be change again, because nothing can be the same, nothing is the same everything changes, but how. Do you need revolutionary changes, radical changes, where blood flows, where heads fall, what changes now? I think we have to imagine that we have to see what we can do, what we can't do. Which guarantees us something. We are responsible for this people here. This BiH, a tired country. It's a tired country. It's a sweaty country, and it needs serious access to things. It's not just order doing, like a ringishpire, just so that the kind of things are done, let's not enjoy it, let's create institutions, so let's do it quietly, but let's go forward, let there be progress, let something be created, not change maybe worse. But I'm saying this without hatred, affection, I'm not criticizing anyone. Everyone has the right to say so, etc., but I am expressing my opinion. So much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3318	Thank you, Agent Baković. The word has an MP Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3319	The Honorable presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I had no intention of really performing, but it is obvious that man cannot remain neutral in the situation and situation in which we are. By the way, if I knew I'd have to be exposed to this many rhetorical pressures from my fellow Banjac, I'd think twice about coming here. This is the third session, where I'm like some sort of material like a polygon for his exercise. I'm going to ask him as a colleague, to cut back a little bit, to spare me. I don't have time to listen to anyone's lectures anymore. Neither I nor we are all in BiH, and we are planning on retorising professorly from this pay phone. Let us be truly precise and concrete and look for solutions to what is ahead. I beg and I will spare you, in that sense, any philosophizing on the subject we're talking about, in the style of it. There's someone here who doesn't have a House of Representatives, we can't work, but let's be honest who's asking that question so we can't work. Previously on "Friends"... they've charged a flat break in that little cash register of ours, so I don't get another look at it. Let's be correct. If we are to establish a whole system of assembly in full capacity, then let's not come here and say it and pre-charge it, it's not correct or fair. There's so much and I won't do it anymore. In particular, let me just say, I congratulate my colleagues, just to say, I congratulate my colleagues, in fact to the esteemed Mr. Raguž, who found the courage to offer the program in such a constitution, the political forces. I congratulate him as a man. I have a huge grudge, on the composition of the program, because I'm a businessman by vocality, I don't see here how the economy will deal with the burden of all of us and social 41 programs. I'm just taking a few questions. We're talking about climates that don't have any capital without climates. How are we going to get to that climate, I mean not with a package of laws that we offer to foreign potential investors, because they faint from all our laws, that's one thing. Secondly, the projection of macroeconomic policy, there is no way that we can adopt forces from this consolidation, where entities act as strong state mechanisms, which have their macroeconomic policies, and we are not here as institutions and parliament. Third, in one place, it is said that BiH would be the best investment polygon in the world if I did not read to cut short in ideal salts. I ask Mr. Raguž, when are we going to get to these ideal conditions? Never. So, in real terms, we need to look for solutions for foreign capital to come and not offer ideal conditions that we will never create. Fourth or fifth, we sell cheap labor all the time. No wonder we're creating a cuneiform, to sell ourselves and all the workers together cheaply to foreign capital, to create such an ambience to be with the knowledge and profession of the vands, even in the environment in which we are, not to talk about Amerikanac and... etc. Furthermore, I've come to understand this passport about reconstruction, reorganization of pension systems, insurance very ugly. Here is a proposed elliptrist approach, which we will now form some special micro-organisational societies, insurance companies, in which the elite, which has acquired capital, in the previous period, will agree to their insurance in these funds, and the workers who carried it out in its head will remain in the empty funds. Such an approach is unsocial, unsolidated and unacceptable, no matter how familiar he is to me, don't think I don't know what's going on out there in the Western countries, how it's organised, but in our terms, it's immoral. We're all putting up with pensioners and working classes together, until we get to that level so that I can choose as an individual I want this fund and this one I won't have Eve, so sorry for saying this a little bit with emotion, in good interest to get out of this package of problems. I'm not gonna talk about number 13 but it's around here somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3320	With the gratitude of MP Imamović, we have a replica, Mr. Banjac, or correction, probably guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3321	Ambassador, Your Honor, thank Bog for giving me reason and strength so I can say the next sentence. I'd be a happy man if all my opponents would think of me and my family what I think of them and their family. I wish a lot more people could say this sentence. I also think of evil if I did something to someone. I'm applying the same sentence. That's what I thank Bog I can say. 42 Second, I will say this at this time what has reminded me, neither have I purposeed, nor will I ever have, neither shall I make nor hate, nor when I have done it. And what some of our days in Sarajevo wrote about me may be an honor to them, that a number of hate can fit on a little paper. I didn't say about you, said about them. Please, and you, and I like something when I don't like it, you know what I'm doing, and I have good autosuggesting training, so I turn myself off, because there's something that doesn't suit me, but it's not for pushing, I learn it, so I turn it off, so I'm moving on. We try to be tolerant of each other, no matter what we think.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3322	We need peaceable tones and tolerances. Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Is anyone else answering for the replica? Not for the replica. We have the order, I beg you, after MP Imamović and this replica has the word of Ambassador Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3323	Madam Chairman, very brave and determinedly, Mr. Martin Raguž, chairman of the Council of Ministers, appointed by the BiH Presidency, and who expects this programme to be approved or not. I would like to say that we MPs today must have a minimum awareness of the need to pay the necessary price for the success of this programme or not, precisely because of this price and responsibility to the citizens of BiH, I want to point out in front of the Party of Democratic Action's Club of Representatives a few words. The SDA MPs' club in this house wants to make it clear and loud that Minister Raguž, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, has done a huge nuance both in the consultations and in the presentation of this programme with political parties in this house. We from the U.S.A. showed our understanding of the chairmanship of the Council, when we were to give it time, both for consultations and for the presentation of this programme. We in the U.S. are most strongly expressing our dissension and disfavor, due to the behaviour of those parties who refused to talk to the chairman of the Council of Ministers in the context of its consultations. We believe that this is indeed an unserious and irresponsible political act, which, in addition, scares the party's volunteerism, which can be thrown out into totalitarianism. Today we have learned that Mr. Raguž has failed to provide the necessary majority in this home on the basis of the presented programme. So, he couldn't even secure a representative government, which was our request and our wish. For this reason, the SDA MPs' club today will vote in a vote to be abstention, both for Mr Raguž and possibly for any other appointed chairman of the Council, which does not provide a stable majority in Parliament, which we believe means 60-70% of the electoral body of course, this is in line with the SDA Programme, the democratic centre party, which prefers real democracy, which means that the current prime minister and the Council of Ministers should know the will of the people, i.e. the citizens of BiH, but not only know it, but also realise it on the ground. That is why we point out, therefore, as the SDA MPs' Club, that we want a stable government, a government that has 43 support for at least 60-70% of this home, a representative government. The government will respect laws, decisions and conclusions in the entire territory of the BiH state. And, once again to point out the MPs' club in this House of Representatives is for the immediate formation of the Council of Ministers, a government that will have support, I would say 60-70% of this electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3324	I thank Ambassador Borić. We have two other debaters who signed up. poslanik Lolić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3325	Dear guests, I'd like to say that I'm bending on behalf, I have to count every time, since there are a lot of us in the club, four parties that I think played last time a key role in saying there's no parliamentary majority and we need to postpone the session and we're very happy, and I'm personally really happy that we delayed it, because I think we've made one big move. The fact is that we did, in one situation that is difficult for our country, maybe one loss for someone of seven days, but we made major political shifts. First of all, that club was formed by five parties, that's what I'm going to say for us in RS so far was a bit of a fiction, and now it's a reality. The fact that this club has made a really big gesture, so all parties have spoken to Mr. Raguž as a prime minister is also a big gesture, and I think it's the biggest gesture that we have ever had to sit down with Mr. Lagumdžija, who I've been normally talking to, but that someone in the campaign told me that maybe someday I'll vote with the representatives of the BiH Party, I'd tell him he's crazy. That he told me that I might be on the same side with the Bosnian Patriot Party, too, but then I talked to those parties, so I realized how important dialogue is in politics, because first you see where you differ, where you have information, where you have misinformation, so I'll start with the Party for BiH. When I saw a Mr. Belkić sitting there with whom I exchanged a lot of sentences, I realized that it was not exactly the kind of party I was experiencing, and when I saw that there was Mr. Dževad Osmančević, who I know for twenty years from Banja Luka, then I changed my mind a little bit, then I realized that even though these parties, who entered the Alliance, made a lot of concessions that we had made concessions to RS, so that we all made concessions and came to today's session, which I think has a very, very good flow, because here is really talking about cursive questions for this country. Mr. Baković said one very good thing here, he said that bad changes are due to change, absolutely agreeing, and we thought that we agreed only a month ago, without any talks, to form a democratic option in BiH, to make a revolution that would not end badly. Believe me, I was in a dilemma too who is a major Muslim, Mr. Alija Izetbegović or Zlatko Lagumdžija, both Bošnjak, but when I say Musliman, then I'm talking about faith. Some have said, it's a game, it's what, I've also been thinking about Mr. Jelavić and Mr. Zubak and then I came up with a paper in which N... before the elections, I apologize, I have to say this all, I think it's all important, made one very significant analysis. They asked several questions to representatives of all nations, and the conclusion was that speeding up economic reforms and raising the employment rate was the most important 44 among all peoples. But then came the answer to one question that he told me I should act the way I've acted in the last 15 days. For the Croatian people, or which of its representatives, almost 20%, the second issue was the national issue. About 12% of Srbin, around 5% of Bošnjak. What it says, that the Bošnjak, by ending the war, created BiH, have resolved practically their national issue. I think that's how it is, that the Srbin have partially solved it, they're not tiny yet, but what I know, and my party, we're left with the RS, which guarantees us that this is our homeland. Here, believe you have in me a representative of the classical young, Serbian generation, who has made one for himself a major political step in the last three years. I'm not '93. I accept BiH as my country, and today I accept it. Today I stand before this Anthem, in this House, I don't mind this coat of arms, but it is very important for me to have the coat of arms of my people in my congregation next to this coat of arms. I think it's all big steps. I want to remind all of us, that over the past 10 years, we've been experiencing thesetonic disorders in this space and that it's hard to fit into a little human head and think about it. I'm coming to the Hrvat now. There's 20% of the people, one fifth, talking about national, so that people don't feel safe in this country, and then I go to see what the position is in these three major national parties, by the number of votes, and I see that they've really fallen and I pray them here, because I think I've managed to create a decent relationship with everyone here, that no one takes the right to be the only representative of the national interest. Mirko Banjac is no bigger Srbin than me, perhaps in height, but he is not in weight, you understand, but means we all have the right to think, to represent the yneres of his people, but I also saw that of these three HDZ parties he is in the most difficult position, because he still had the best result, after which he saw himself SDS and HDZ, and now he will come into one situation that he will not be in power and it will create problems. Then as a young man, I was just scared, what if there were these announced obstructions, boycotts in this country. Now I'm just going to tell you two sentences, as director of the great Clinical Center in Banja Luka, a few more days, after all this, I've decided to pull myself out of this place and really get the most involved in the work of this organ here, and I don't think we need a lot of us here to be professionalized, because we need to take responsibility for this two years to get this country out of the circus, if we don't find solutions within 2-3 months, we don't need this parliament or the government, we're going to need skis if it's snow or fast cars to get away from the people's rebellion. Believe me, what I'd say about Martin's two things. First, one of my objections is, around this part of social and pension. Martin just showed something, he said well, it's an entity business that neither Martin Raguž nor Branislav Lolić, and unfortunately no one in this country has an answer to the key question for me, what about our pensioners, these are our parents, who we've been lying about for years, and no one knows how to help them. I'm not going as a doctor to let them die in hospitals and homes because they don't have drugs and we're in this situation. Therefore, I propose that one of the results of today's discussion be that we put this issue, as well as social reforms, very quickly into the session of our Parliament and all parliamentarians. Furthermore, I have seen that Martin said that it is very important to achieve economic reform, social reform, to encourage investment. If what I heard from the mouth of several ambassadors, who told me, I agreed to some meetings, just convinced by the force of the argumentator. If you gentlemen continue to behave irresponsiblely, our taxpayers will no longer have an understanding of what is happening in BiH and we won't be able to explain to them what so many millions and billions of dollars are going to spill, then please take care of yourself. It's not excluded that we're going to pull out of here. I think that, who thinks otherwise, has the right to withdraw international organisations, above all SFOR, bring this country into collapse and I think it would be chaos. After that, I'm sure there wouldn't be any investment. I agree with someone who said that no more donor conferences, the only real privatisation and foreign investment, is not without political security. When we talked, how to get out of the solution, I thought this was an ideal solution to what I publicly suggested. Martin Raguž as the prime minister and candidates of this democratic alliance as ministers, then Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija clearly said here: "The position of my political party that there is no coalition with national parties." Then I heard and read, from very prominent representatives of the vocal forces, that they will not provide assistance to one government in which they will be representatives of the national parties. However, I am very pleased to meet Martin Raguž. I knew a lot about him, and I can tell you that we've been pretty friendly over the past month, which I've seen in HDZ and SDS and SDA, and here he is sitting here and my colleague and there's more of my colleagues I've seen. There are some new people who say that even in these parties, to say new winds blow and that probably in all parties and that probably in all parties new people, especially young people bring change. I told Martin, I know you're fighting a hard battle, but don't be unhappy. You did a big job. First, we all said today and agreed that Martin Raguž had done a good job in the last three months, that he was doing a good job entrusted to him under difficult conditions. Secondly, I said, Martin, you did something that not many of the RS parties sat down, agreed on some things, helped Mr Lagumdžija and I sit down, so after a few discussions, I realized Mr Lagumdžija's concept, so now I really believe he wants to make quick economic progress. Next, I know Mr. Zubak, I know Mr. Lozančić, and here I told some other people, and I think we can be happy in the end, we've made a big step. What should certainly be a lesson for me is, you can no longer be allowed to get a program of work on the day of the session. The program of work and composition should be given at least three days so that we have time to make a statement about it. I absolutely support Mr. Belkić's discussion that if Mr. Raguž does not receive support, the new mandater must form an emergency programme for the rapid resolution of the situation in BiH and I think that, thanks to one constructive discussion, we have made one big step forward and there is a chance, and I pray everything, that no matter what the result, we will refrain, there is no BiH, without three equal peoples and two equal entities. As a representative of the Serbian people, I will never vote for any decision, which will endanger the rights, especially the Hrvat as the smallest people, because I said that poll there has shown some things and I think that just like that, three people, together, using the best people, we can do a lot of things and if we do that there is a future for all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3326	Thank you, Ambassador Lolić. The intervention of Vice-President Ljubić. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3327	Dear MPs are not a replica, I would only draw one or two sentences that Mr. Lolić said, it is clear that the Bošnjak have clearly resolved their national issue, it is clear that the Srbin seem to have almost solved their national issue, and let's all of us together solve the Croats' national issue. Now, gentlemen, I don't think that's possible, but you have to ask us a little. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3328	The intervention, too, is a replica, Mr. Lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3329	The correct false allegation of fellow Lolić. My kolega Loliću, you said that HDZ is in the most difficult position. HDZ Mr. Lolić and the other gentlemen are in the best position. HDZ received 90% of the trust from the Croatian electoral body, from all those who went to the polls. In the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH, out of 33 Hrvat, the HDZ received 25 Hrvat, with only four compensation papers, thanks to the engineering of the international community, we would have received far more mandates at the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives if there were no compensation lists. In BiH's House of Representatives, I particularly underline, as this is the home, the HDZ has received four direct mandates. My mandate is compensatory, but for my mandate it took 36,000 votes, unlike some sitting here, with 15-20 thousand votes, I do not dispute them, the rules were such, but if there were no such rules, there would have been far more Hrvat from the DHZ in this House of Representatives. You were Mr. Lolić, also talking about SDP's co-operation with national parties. I ask you, are you a national party, as many non-Serbs in your membership as there are in your bodies where you participate in municipal, state-level non-Serbs, whether the Party for BiH is a national party, which has five representatives, of which all five are Bošnjak, which I do not dispute, is their right, so we need to know that they are also national parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3330	Thank you, Ambassador lužanski. Let's take it in a row. After Lužanski's lužanski, he has the word of MP Miro Grabovac, I apologize to Mr Spasojevic, an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3331	Mr. President, fellow MPs, dear guests, I intend to discuss this, but I see that this discussion is going in some direction that is not good for BiH. Here, as I see it, is the creation of a new little Yugoslavia, which is going to burst quickly, and the leader of this is some people sitting here in this House, and that's not good. My predecessor, who was now, not this HDZ, but this RS gentleman, says he is a representative of the Serb people and is a representative of most Srbin. I have to tell you that he has barely raised 5% or six thousand and some votes, and everything else has been gathered by other parties, and the largest number of SDS, which has over 65% of the Serbian people's votes and cannot be manipulated with those voices and said on behalf of the SDS that this is the Serbian people represented by this Mr X who I won't even say his name to, because it's a shame that he here is 47. I thought I was speaking to these other MPs, but they have every honour to defend their people and defend their interests, and the one who's X, he's executed for the RS, and I don't know if he'll be able to and how he'll return to RS with such statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3332	So far we have had one high degree of tolerance and culture of dialogue. I would ask you to respect each other, no matter what a difficult situation it is. It's a replicator.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3333	I'm not going to replicate to Mr. Lužanski, because it was not my intention at all to cause such a reaction, I absolutely accept what you said. There's a wrong quote here. I didn't say if I were a representative of most Serbian people, that would be ridiculous. Secondly, I am not Mr. X, but Branislav Lolić, third, I did not get six thousand, but 28.5 thousand votes and I only said that no party has the right to be, to have a deed to the protection of national interest and not the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3334	There's no reason to be tense. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, it seems to me that one part of this situation is aware of the historical moment we are now in, or this session, in my personal view, can be crucial to BiH and I thus warn all those who do not see it so that they open their eyes well and see where they are. I warn especially those who say “changes. ” What changes? What changes, they were the same in '92. in the BiH presidency, I am specifically talking about members of the SDP. I don't know 5 or 6 or 7 members of the SDP were in the BiH presidency, at the worst time when BiH was bleeding and its people. What kind of changes were they? What these changes have made. Mr. Lagumdžija knows exactly what I'm aiming at. Secondly, I see that in the SDP concept, representatives of the SDP from the RS and the Federation of BiH differ. One says that Martin should be the continuity of the present Council, and others say that they want changes and do not want the continuity of the council. Well, I don't know, first of all, we should agree on what you want, if you don't know what you want right now, I don't know what you're doing, what changes would give BiH and its citizens prosperity. I find another very important thing that I said at first. Many did not understand me, unfortunately, those who did understand when I spoke about the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The answer to those who speak for the cobwebs, this is the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and those who receive a flat-rate, are received for work in this House of Representatives. And those who take to work, work in the House of the Peoples, will receive a fee for this work in the House of the Peoples, so that we can separate these two things. But here and again we are entering some controversy, we say, firstly the chairman says he is not competent to interpret, that they are not competent to interpret the Constitution, but to interpret it by OHR, and Mr Lagumdžija says that the Constitutional Court of BiH has declared the unconstitutional Council of Ministers, where he was co-chairing the minister and that it was not constitutional. Who it is now, I don't know who it is who can interpret the Constitution, and before that we had a request from the MPs, to meet the Constitutional and Legal Committee and to give their position, in connection with this matter, to get out of this crisis. 48 However, I believe that it is not the goal of getting out of the crisis, because discussions on the good and bad work programme of Mr. Martin Raguž were not even guided, but they knew in advance what they would be, or those who led the discussion, do not understand what the vision is, based on which the strategy, dotrin, or plans, followed by planning, programming, budgeting and return. Obviously, we've taken the wrong steps somewhere, and we're talking about this and that. The vision given by Martin is more than ideally understood, i.e. who wants to accept it as real and as it is. I would like to see those who want and who will quickly get it out, and they couldn't do it quickly when they were able to decide, say, '90 when it was a collapse of total economics and we're still getting involved. I have nothing to say, but to commend Mr. Raguž's program, and to warn, too, of a very important issue, or a very important situation, how to further get out of this crisis, if we think Martin's program is wrong and we have no objection to it, it means it's a political game. Come on, if this is a political game and, we say, should be given by those who have a majority in the Parliamentary House of BiH. If we start from the point of view that BiH is made up of three constituent and sovereign nations, that BiH is sovereign as its peoples are sovereign, that the people are the bearer of sovereignty in the first order and not the parties. If the Croatian people gave plebiscite support to HDZ, what is to dispute about. She is national, but she's not nationalist. With which someone can label HDZ as a nationalist party, because they are going through national, and they mean nationalist. I think there are many more responsible for fate and wrong moves, which are in the parties, who want change than in HDZ, but also in the SDA and SDS, which are here today. I think that a good eye should be opened and that responsibility should be taken over for those who want and who bring the situation of BiH, BiH into a situation of indifference and without what will not work, without what the people will not accept. Mr. Lagumdžija I agree, if you have both legality and legitimacy, then take power to have both, so you can be legal and you can't be legitimate, at least in the space of one third of BiH. So you must be accepted by the people. So, if you want to implement your programmes, you must automatically apply the forces of repression, which is then a protectorate, which is mixing the international community, which is very dangerous, which has led to the collapse and war in BiH. I warn of this situation most seriously, and here is the fact that there is no debate about the programme, exactly what I said at the beginning that there is a House of People as a mechanism for protecting national interests. As you can vote, you can do whatever you want, because it's supposed to be democratic, it's not democratic at all, it's not going to be accepted in the people at all, and it's going to be totally counterproductive, and that's why I asked for it to be prolonged, so I've been working to think and clear heads start, and especially here, because the BiH Constitution is being violated. This is a violation of the BiH Constitution, no matter how much you interpret or give an interpretation or an OHR, this is not an interpretation of the OHR, it can work, but how you predict the protection of national interests. I looked a little bit more at the SDP, because I feel that SDP is the main wheel of these changes, i.e. I know the time of the Union of Communists and here today the successor of SDP as I lived, the same people were sitting or a part of those people was sitting at the BiH presidency or in the Yugoslav Presidency. 49 I draw attention, lest we take the wrong historical step. I'll give you one comparison. Do not allow and do not play as it used to be during the former Yugoslavia, when Belgrade chose Sejdo Bajramović. We know the results of Yugoslavia, we know the results of Kosovo. It's a very serious situation and we have to be responsible for it. Let's not make decisions like America when she was moving to Vietnam, and she didn't have a good majority and decided to be right. The wrong step and making the wrong decision is the result of the disaster, resulting in further deepening of the crisis. Today, when we can do and when we need to do, for all the peoples of BiH, respecting both the sovereignty and the constitutionality of all the peoples in BiH, I think we need to move, respecting the will of the people, as bearer of the sovereignty of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3335	I'd like to thank Agent Grabovac. There's a word, we still have two debaters reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3336	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3337	It's a late intervention, Mr. Banjac, we can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3338	To make it quite clear, only the name says that the Serbian People's Union, the national party, which has in it mostly representatives of the Serb people, is open to all representatives of other peoples, who respect the Serbian people and the RS. Secondly, we are fortunate to be unlike any other national party, thanks to its policy, a party with which the international community wants to co-operate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3339	I thank you for your response to Ambassador Lolić. We have two other MPs who signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3340	Intruded chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, I've passed the shadows here for the payphones said one finding and now I'm going to repeat it. BiH must be a state of compromise. We here sitting on 42 of us, I think we must all be aware of that. That is why it is no wonder that my president of the Parliament Club has expressed our position, that we believe that in the Council of Ministers there must be people who will be the representation of the desire of the BiH electoral body, and therefore we are looking for seriousness in this regard, expressing a truly large, large thank-you to Mr Raguž, who has made a huge effort to offer what he has offered today, I think that this should indeed be respected, but unfortunately, they have not been able to bring together enough political forces about this programme to make a representative government. The condition of the SDA was to be a representative government of 50 and we would in that case support the programme. In this case, our attitude is clearly stated here. I'll look back on one more thing, which concerns me very much. Here we are talking about the resolved national issue of one nation, the other, the third one is not solved, and we know how it is implemented and how our people live here in BiH. The national issue, certain political forces do not want to solve, is very easy to resolve. Every citizen of this country and every member of every nationality should be equal, constitutive in every space, on every BiH soil. There is no country in the world, there is no citizen in any country in the world that has more rights in one part of the country and in another part of the same country that has less rights. It was the only case in this BiH, and since the Constitutional Court made a decision on constitutionality last year, I propose that this body, which affects its authority, should be implemented throughout the BiH territory and the national issue will then be resolved. The national issue of the Bošnjak in RS cannot be resolved if the birth of the Banalučan still live in their sheds there and I am most concerned by one finding from today's session, which is the conclusion made by Mr Banjac. That he would carry out all that was right for him by the RS. I'm paraphrasing, that's what you said about this pay phone, I didn't quote. You said that on occasion. It's got a stenogram. It's easy to see when you're responding to a replica. I'm worried about that. We have all sworn on the BiH Constitution here and we must implement the BiH Constitution at every rate of BiH, not the entity's constitution. I'm concerned about that finding here, it has a stenogram. It's easy to determine how it's said, I'm paraphrasing, maybe I haven't been able to quote, it's a danger. And the fact that the SDA, for all these ten years and now representing these views that I'm saying, it can be concluded that it defended every rate of BiH, at every part of Bosnia, how much mgol and did it and that there was a political programme and political attitudes produced by Dejton, etc., it is known. Now someone wants to say, you can't possibly be in power, it's simply not with reason to me, but here we are going to fight in our own way democratically and politically normal. We will try to prove to this people that all BiH citizens cannot, too, that one political party, which has invested all its authority, reputation and strength in the defence of BiH, cannot be read so easily.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3341	Thank you, Ambassador Brki. Ambassador Banjac, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3342	Dear MP, I am asking the Kolegijum to get us a stenogram of what I said, because it will be most credible, and I have answered that I am willing to do everything that is provided for in the official and legal Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and I am telling you, now it is clear to me, beyond the statement, what your relationship to the constitution of the entity, which is called the RS, and I must tell you that, in my opinion, the Venice Commission, and you and your party are very happy to call on international, international bodies, quite precisely written that the Constitution of the Republic of BiH is in line with the Constitution of BiH and therefore, whoever respects the Constitution of the RS, respects both the Constitution of BiH and vice versa, and I am willing to respect both of myself, and explicitly and with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3343	Thank you to Ambassador Banjac and the last speaker in the debate, we have another MP Jovanović. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3344	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I think a lot of things are already clear and familiar here. It's not that important here, not the program, not the name, but it's what's the political option. I assume Mr. Raguž is not from HDZ that at least 70-80% of the votes this programme has given us would have won, or won, a huge majority. What I want to say, and I think it's important, I'd like to compare the former Coalition of Syllabics from the RS and the current Alliance for Change. The RS Syllabic coalition, for those who don't know, was composed, fortunately for us, it fell apart, consisted of 2-3 small-scale parties and a particular struggle of small parties from RS. There's a similar situation here. The alliance is also composed of two major parties from the Federation of BiH and a lot to say to smaller parties also from the Federation. You see, the Coalition of Syllabics in RS was supported by the Coalition for a Full and Democratic BiH. Also, the Alliance is supported by saying a number of parties or will be supported by RS. So it's almost the same. What happened? It happened that the Coalition of Syllabics in RS had failed. For what? Because she didn't have the support of the people. It may not be such a problem, how much of a problem what she did and what she left in RS. She left poverty and poverty. I'm afraid also this alliance for change doesn't leave poverty and poverty in BiH. I have arguments when I talk about poverty and poverty. You probably know, you have information that six months have not been paid off in RS. That budget consumers did not receive salaries at 3-4 months, that the economy is in a catastrophic state. I come from Zvornik. A few days ago, the largest factory in RS, probably the largest exporter in BiH, was stopped. These are all the results of the Syllabic Coalition. These are all results, so I am responsible and I say that the people, or citizens of the RS, live worse now than during the war. I repeat again and I am afraid and I would not want it to be the same in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3345	I thank Ambassador Jovanović. After his colleague Jovanović, he has the word of Ambassador Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3346	Mr. Chairman, vice-president, members of the presidency, fellow MPs, guests, I believe this is a very important issue that we are discussing and its importance in some way also provides reasons for understanding the out-of-one trip, to say the formal, clear framework, of our setting on the matter of trust of the BiH Council of Ministers, which was carried out by the BiH Presidency. Therefore, without wanting to, in fact, delude myself directly with colleagues who have expressed certain views, I find it necessary to correct them or on my part, in fact, express my dissent with some of the assessments that have been presented in these trips, which may have meanings beyond the frameworks of even resolving this important issue for us. First of all, it was concluded that this session could be crucial for BiH. I believe that this is a very arbitrary assessment and if BiH were to depend on one such session of 52 of the House of Representatives, however important it is, it would all be extremely controversial and this sitting here. Secondly, several fellow Members of Parliament have held this debate, or their participation in the debate in the analysis of the situation in which we are located, closer determine it, with the help of analogies with Yugoslavia. I would remind fellow Members of the Parliament, that Yugoslavia was created at the table, at the table as a state, and where they were lucky that Bogdo was at the table and unmanaged and gone. However, BiH was not created at the table and neither was created in Dayton, it was created thousands of years ago and at least for us here, I believe that it is extremely inappropriate and not suitable for such comparisons. Finally, in contesting the reasons for the possible election of the Council of Ministers with the other chairman of the Council and it is evident, we now have two options, which are unfortunately and politicised and even ideological, it has been said that the possible victory would be democratic, legal, but not legitimate, however, not called for the people, but for a third of BiH's transparency. Which, too, is unacceptable to me. Finally, these trips discussed resolved and unresolved national issues of Bošnjak. I have also stated this mention of the territory of a third BiH, or of calling for the faith of the constitution of an entity, as a reason why Bošnjak do not feel secure and in no way feel safe, I would say many of them as members of a nation whose national issue has been resolved. It is up to us, of course, to help resolve both the national and any other issues, through this home and through the House of Peoples in the entire assembly, of course, by repeating what I spoke several times in the previous assembly of the House of Representatives, respecting the state legal structure of BiH, which makes it very clear and precise that three constituent peoples are represented through the Presidency and through the homes of the people. In addition, I respect, of course, the two situations in which we in this home can, of course, fully involve the issue of national representation, it is the choice of members of the College of our home, but it has one hindrance I would say the obligation and choice in this case, i.e. the certification of the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers and, of course, I do not have the same obligation. On my part, I would not add new arguments, to what my fellow club president and colleague Brka had previously said and about the mountains and engagements of the further Mr. Raguž's work. I support with my strnae, I can master his program in general. I fully respect his work, indeed successful, given the circumstances in which we are, and I respect all the circumstances that the Bureau members have managed to give him this confidence, but I respect the reasons, and I share the other colleagues from my party in the simple fact that my colleague Raguž did not get us a full majority in this Parliament and therefore through him in the peoples and citizens of BiH, on which basis he could go safely to meet and face all the risks of realising this programme that I am implementing. I visit you and I would end up in countries of a long democratic tradition, in which governments have incomparably stronger powers than the Council of Ministers in BiH. The government's focus is on addressing concrete problems and functioning rather than on governance. Our Council of Ministers has incomparably less powers and therefore the focus of all possible activities on its successful functioning. Given the circumstances we are in, there is no doubt that we have a Council of Ministers, if it has the appropriate support, on the basis of which it will be able to function properly. In the end, these were the reasons for which we were allowed to support this appointment, 53 because we are simply not sure that the Council of Minsitare, which was held on the thin line of uncertainty in this very home, about the trust it has, could not properly carry out its tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3347	Thank you to Ambassador Neimarlija, as last reported by MP Mijatović and Mr Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3348	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I feel that we are greatly benefiting from this assembly payphone. I'm not personally in favor of doing it in the future, because we certainly won't get far. I think that, and I personally am not content with such views, I think that the pre-election gatherings are an opportunity for this and that the political will of each party is manifested there, and when elections are held, then there is the implementation of that political will through legitimately elected representatives. By limiting that my attempt to make it now has political overtones, I will look only at a part of the political statements of the Bureau members, as legitimate and legal promoters in the bird's agenda that we are now laundering about, therefore, only in this village, so I will say that the BiH presidency is a legitimate legitimate body, it will leave the issue of denying agrems to individual international representatives who go beyond the scope of their mandate. All this said, from the point of view of the next. Because of threats and blackmail by secret meetings and pressures on the media, they seek to challenge the presidency's proposal for the mandate of the BiH Council of Ministers and to force the mandater and composition of the future Council of Ministers to be appointed, based on a proposal from the Democratic Alliance for Change. It is also said that individual MPs in the BiH Parliament are threatened, quoted and threatened by personal security. Please, in order to avoid a political debate on these issues, I think it would be the obligation of the Presidency as a legitimate proposing, as well as the College leading this assembly, before any discussion that we MPs, which we decide whether it is true or not. I will not speculate as an MP, nor personally to give any qualifications, but since they have, the BiH Presidency said, and not me, and if that is true, then I believe that we will make a mistake and that there are no conditions for us to decide in a democratic way. About that question so much. Furthermore, I would really, from a part of the discussion, which also had a political sound and political marketing, single out some of which I personally was distracted and I would make an appropriate proposal on how to get out of this situation. For example. I can't agree with Mr. Lagumdžija's position, when he's denying someone the right to speak for a nation, a nation, and he's taking the right to speak for himself about three peoples, and that's impossible to believe in democracy. Next, yes, for example. I don't mind any of the MPs from any political party speaking, and here I am a Srbin to speak of the Serb people, or the Bosniak people or the Croatian people. We are all peoples and citizens of BiH and I guess we have a fundamental right to talk about these peoples of BiH. If we don't talk about them, I don't know what we're gonna talk about. You know, it's an attempt to play internationalism, because a week, week and a hefty, every time, so, only someone has the right to not say one of these expressions that we all understand, and believe me, it doesn't bother me 54 when a guy uses any of these expressions, but it's really unnecessary every time to use all three of those expressions and take the right to be the only me or anyone else I have to be an internationalist and use all three expressions. My proposal, further, I will say that I really thought that the sources behind us were political exclusion, and I see in the highest performance of the Alliance this political exclusion of the next species. He says, you're from the Serbian Democratic Party, I won't apply to you at all, it's absolute exclusion, it doesn't lead well, it's against the basic principle of democracy, which consists of implementing election results and that, I won't repeat the reasons Mr Lagumdžija said, to show that new democracy some. If I were like him, I could say you're a representative of the communist failed government, who brought us into this whole situation, in the '90s, but really different from that kind of exclusion, I'm always in favor of working with every member of parliament who has MPs in this assembly, and I think the best solution is that, based on the results of the elections, we should have based the Council of Ministers. I believe here, I see a large number of people, if they would rule out this kind of exclusion and come to the right solution and there would be support in all parties, in the club of MPs of all parties. I don't mind a statement, I'd like the gap to be over, but I can't see gentlemen that we're going to implement the results. I don't see, either, that we'll choose the Council of Ministers. So, we're going a little falsely into all these activities. If the Alliance really does have true thoughts and if it has prepared this flattery that will take place and bring down this legitimate proposal of the Presidency, which the gentlemen have not come out with a new one, and I say, as far as I know and if I don't have a platform, it was time to announce the gentlemen's platform, so that we as MPs know so far, that we should be determined. Maybe if you'd done it, maybe I would have voted for that candidate of yours today, even when I heard he was my countryman, but independently I heard Matić, and I don't know what I would have wasted, believe me. Look, but this is how you want to block total work and impose a political exclusion on everyone else. You resent the HDZ MP, which is mentioned by the Croatian people, and by the election results you see, and you take it as your right to represent him. Please don't, it's not, in parliamentary democracy it's abcd, so with this proposal to try, with this proposal, to succeed, or what I know how, so I'd ask that, when possibly some new proposals to try and maybe you give up that kind of exclusion so that a solution can be found, where, at least, a few, I know that it can't be 100% implemented by the entire election body of BiH, our country in which you're trying more sworn, for example. It's me, I don't know what. She's my country too, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3349	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. We're bringing this debate to an end. We have a report, Mr. Ljubić, deputy chairman, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3350	I thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs, the confirmation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, for me is not a purely procedural issue. For me, it's a very big question, I can say not fatefully and essentially for BiH. For me, these are the results of the election, for me are the will of the people and the will of the citizens, it is fateful for BiH for the 55th survival of BiH, its people and its citizens. I welcome the Presidency's decision and congratulate the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, whether we join the vote today or not, no matter what the results, I think again Mr Raguž is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The fact is that this council worked well, that it regained BiH's reputation in this region both narrow and wider. I welcome the fundamental principles that Mr. Raguž has tried to hold talks with parties on the constitution of the Council of Ministers, in order for BiH to get a representative government, inculcating the BiH Constitution, respecting the results of the elections and affirming and strengthening BiH institutions. I think it's a key thing, and all of this certainly affirming the equality of citizens and peoples in BiH. I, in Mr Raguž's programme, saw my kind of alliance for BiH, so I strongly support it and I will support it. I can't really accept any exclusion, I don't think that exclusion should be BiH right now. BiH is destroyed, displaced and another only greater that it can hardly accept. Let's not say in advance that we won't cooperate with this or that. I expected here, from most parties that they would say, let's make one representative government. We have six groups of MPs here at six big clubs. I expected each of these groups to offer one minister, here we have six ministers in the Council, and it will be one representative government that will help BiH during this transitional period, overcome this situation to enter a more peaceful stream, it has not happened so far, I am not excluding that it will happen. Mine is, my pledge is to respect the results, to achieve such a Council of Ministers that will receive at least 80% of the votes of these members who will receive the support of these six groups, parties, which will not count them. In the Federation of BiH, as the strongest SDA, SDP, Party for BiH, HDZ, SDS and this club... I don't know how, I don't know all parties. I think that the platform could help BiH and its people and citizens. The result is, there's no winner or winner here. Any result of the vote can be interpreted differently. I would quote Ivo Andrić here, who said, after such a statement, says: “I was surprised when he told the congratulatory winners and also I pity them, they know what to do and what to do, and the winners do not expect and do not know what to expect them.” So let's be reasonable, if we can't make a statement today, let's postpone, we won't lose anything, we'll help, here's what you've heard is the position of representatives who want one representative government, the government behind which they will stand, the government that will reflect all the interests of all political will, because the results of the elections in BiH, is not a simple mathematics of addition one plus one, plus one, it has to and a little bit more. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3351	I would like to thank Ambassador Ljubić the Vice-President. I have the honour to announce for the first time in front of the House of Representatives, for the first time, a member of the Presidency, Mr Jelavić, will address us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3352	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs of Parliament's House of Representatives, is my special honor in the truth that I can welcome you, I know you're tired, I'm not a big politician and a skilled speaker like you MPs and I probably wouldn't be a good representative like you, but I'll try, but at this point I wouldn't want to affect the confirmation process, the 56 mandaters of the Council of Ministers and don't understand this discussion in this way. I want to be absolutely clear, open, honest here and I think you know that today we have not discussed the question of confirming the mandate of Mr. Martin Raguž and that this is not about Mr. Raguž or one political party or the coalition of a political party, so it was also the HDZ, that this is practically about the conflict of political concepts. I need to be perfectly clear. So it's a conflict of political concepts and proponents of romen. What changes? A change in the political concept and the Dayton Peace Accords, whether BiH's positions, the three constituent nations in BiH are a civil state, under the guise of a civil model and one man with one vote with two entities. I'd like to make myself perfectly clear here. Is it about these changes? If it is about these changes, then it must be perfectly clear to you, Mr Raguž will not be breaking the issue of the conflict of political concepts and that this conflict of political concepts will have far-reaching consequences, and I can tell you clearly, as a member of the Presidency of the Croatian people, who won '98 in the direct elections of support, and my political party, in these two years, won two elections, at local level, all municipalities with the Croatian majority in the Federation of BiH, and also in these general elections, just to remind you, we got five out of ten cantons, we got 25 mandates, regardless of the electoral model I do not want to mention in the Federal Parliament, along with some of our political allies, perhaps a few more mandates here in the state parliament, which is the number of representatives, and I think I have legitimacy on behalf of my electoral body, in the name of BiH and in the name of the Croatian people that I speak. It's far from this hall. It's a beautiful promenade. It's called Wilson's. One of the most important representatives of the United States who has introduced one of the fundamental principles in international law, the right to small... peoples to equality and the right to self-determination. Please don't forget, today we're saying this in a different dictionary, we're talking about the consistency of the people, and so it's written in the Dayton Constitution. What has been happening lately, culmination and no wonder that in the New York Times, a dilemma of Dejton or democracy, with coercion and from the presence of international military forces, is possible for BiH to be self-sustainable and united, but it is doubtful whether democracy and standardisation of political and civil rights of people and citizens in BiH is possible. I would like to ask this question, in front of this distinguished home, because it is a joint responsibility of the BiH presidency and of me as a member of the Presidency of the Croatian people, but also of all of you MPs in the House of Representatives, and no one will escape from the responsibilities. No matter who is responsible for this process, it is amazing that three months after the election, no matter what democratic “air” is organized, we have failed to organise power. What's the problem? If we respect the Constitution, constitutional provisions and states and entities, that the state is three constituent nations, that the Federation is an entity of two constituent nations and that we respect the results. What's the problem? Is this a problem of changing BiH's political concept to civil, unitary BiH, with two entities, one man vote. Is the problem under the guise of eliminating national parties, including this HDZ BiH, to create some Alliance, which I personally have nothing against, or against the SDP, and I also have to make it clear, which means this alliance, the Alliance for Change, which are changes, is that a change in the political concept. What kind of economic programme, other than the Rod Mepa, is the conditions of the Ve and Brussels 57 declaration. Let's talk openly here, in this year and a half to the new elections if there are, and I am convinced and I am optimistic that there will be them, which is the rate of economic growth, the growth of employment, which we find to be, one or another mandate. What are these measures that must be taken to attract foreign investment? Is this BiH, with several degrees of government, whether you think it will attract foreign investments and favourable credit arrangements. What are these programs in modernising state administration and local roaring and self-government? What about public funds reforms and privatisation, and privatisation... of concrete things, we haven't talked here today, it's familiar to everyone. But I also ask you, which is under the cover of eliminating national parties, how so, I cannot agree that me and my political party is more or less national and anti-daytonic than Silajdzic's Party for BiH. I am in an election campaign. Perhaps because of election rules, not a democratic atmosphere, normally the better election results come out with some things and here I can talk openly, but messages like BiH without entities, I never said. The Federation as it is, it's unacceptable. After election rules, I did say that. Is this HDZ a more nationalist party, or I a leader of the party, a major nationalist, than Haris Silajdžić or Mladen Ivanić, or Sefer Halilović, or perhaps in the programme that a group of young people, within the HDZ, in which there are no war protagonists, cannot force or blackmail anyone. No one can lock me in four walls and send me blackmail messages, like this or like that, and if they sent me, I probably wouldn't go out in front of the Bosnian Herzegovina public, I know as Zlatko handles it in four eyes. And what Živko Radišić, my member of the presidency, came out yesterday, I would like to speak clearly, not even the Presidency, I don't know the whole statement, and I don't know that he asked in Banja Luka for a press release conference, but the Presidency did not discuss the issue of agremansion for any ambassador to BiH. Or we'll probably think about it. Not because of these diplomats and ambassadors, but because of a truly huge contribution from countries such as the United States, Great Britain, which stopped the war in this region and in BiH, stopped the war, signed, helped us sign the Peace Agreement, but also helped us to implement the Peace Agreement for five years, especially in the reconstruction. Which way Dayton's headed, that's what time will show. I say that Dejton will not ensure the standardisation of political and civil rights, nor the balance of individual and ethnic principles, that is my point of view and that it will not ensure the assumptions of democracy. It's mine and it'll show time. I would like to make it clear, and when it comes to these pressures and in front of BiH, I would like to tell the public, regardless of what some of these diplomats are nice guys, who sometimes go beyond the measure of good conduct and diplomatic behavior. I am a witness that in determining the mandate of Gligorić, Mr Gligorić and Mr Tuševljak, Mr Raguž, we have had enormous pressures, but these are ridiculous things. These diplomats, representatives of the international community, realize that it is counter-productive, when we talk about one democratic atmosphere and democratic processes, if we want one normal, self-sustainable BiH, in which a standardisation of political and civil rights will be achieved. The fact that the statements of certain diplomats, which speak of Mostar, about small peoples who have too many rights or too many mandates, seem to me to be in the House of Representatives, without speaking of segregation and aperheid without saying that both the closure of individual representatives and the threat to The Hag, and I have information about that, I think that 58 have gone beyond measure, but there is no withdrawal nor will we withdraw that question. I think it's high time that those representatives of the international community, who all the time say it's our responsibility for the fate of BiH, so let them give us responsibility. I, when I was 38 years old, think that in these two years, I have never come out any anti-Bosnian or anti-Serb or anti-Serb... so what am I, a nationalist, and leader of some Croatian, leader of a national HDZ, or Kooni say nationalist parties, and I want to make this clear to all citizens, with the greatest responsibility, in front of the whole Bosnian-Herzegovic public and the Croatian people in BiH as well as to all citizens. Please, this political leadership of Croatia, not HDZ, remember, which received plebiscite and which won five cantons, this political leadership will not give the legitimacy to change the unilateral change of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and in action is a one-time change of the Dayton Peace Agreement, under the heading of the constitution of the government, under the cover of the implementation of election results, one man we Hrvat come to an even more difficult situation. We will never give any legitimacy to Barry's borderline rules and regulations about the election of envoys to the House of Peoples. You all understand the constitutional position of the House of Peoples. The home of the people practically ensures a balance between individual, civil and ethnic principles. So please, in one Belgium in one Belgian political system, there is a Belgian bell in the Belgian Parliament, two-thirds of the Vlanonac' representatives, it can make any decision concerning the vital national interest. So don't we Hrvat have the right to the House of Peoples, at the level of the Federation and at the level of the state? Is that a fight for territory? Is that a fight for a third entity? Who should elect representatives from the Croatian people from the cantonal or county congregations? Who's supposed to choose? Is it necessary to respect the civil principle, one vote, and then the people's home in the Federation of BiH should be abolished and, secondly, in this process of implementing election results and implementing the government's constitution, it is amazing that the uncle, who received five cantons -- five counties in the Federation, wants to be excluded from power at all costs. This isn't a matter of authority. Who in the name of the Croatian people should be represented, but on behalf of the Croatian people, who should represent the Croatian people? SDP, with Zlatko Lagumdžija, the Alliance as an extended party block. Oh, please, why the legitimacy? Who gave the ID? If proven to me in this election home, I, as a member of the Bureau, am ready to give my consent immediately to the Alliance candidate and to Mr Mtić's candidate. There are no problems, but also, don't forget, there must be political principles on the political scene of BiH. Well, I can't be, or a team of people, unspective, nationalists, blacks, etc., and people who can't come to BiH, there's a request for extradition and people who go to The Hague in ten days, and they've done terrible crimes against the Croatian people in the Neretva valley, they should be a perspective for BiH citizens and the peoples of BiH, and BiH and I, as a member of the Presidency, should give that lethary to such an alliance. Oh, please, my message, I don't want to affect anything, on this day, I say session, I don't want to influence, however, I am supporting you to go to a statement, we know the results, they are quite clear to us, but let me tell you what deep political crisis we are entering both the joint responsibility of the BiH Presidency and of your respected home. Rest assured, as a member of the Croatian people's predsjendištvo in the presidency, I will not give anyone consent after Mr Raguž's fall, on a political scene like this. Regardless, I will never give consent and remember, I will never give consent to the mandate, not only from Croatia, but also from the Bosniak and Serb people to the Alliance bloc, because they have no legitimacy in Hrvat, no legitimacy, that's one thing. 59 The second thing, to be a prime minister in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people, this is an open conversation, to be a mandate in the order of the Serb and Bosniak, who guarantees it to us in a democratic procedure that the Alliance's mandate will respect the political will of the citizens and the equal peoples of BiH and what some have said, I do not want to mention that they will invent a situation with Lagumdžija, a Sejd Bajramović, or someone else, so please be nice, so the Hrvat are a decent people and will never accept such a list of situations until the end. We're getting into a situation. The split of this situation is next. Since it is so black and white, I do not want to further tighten, I am aware of my responsibilities, be sure, as long as there is dialogue in this whole democratic process, as democratic as it is within the Constitution, the time will show, be sure, that Hrvat in BiH and HDZ will be the last to compromise BiH's sovereignty and integrity, but do not, too, be sure that we will not go below the minimum of political and civil rights, which the Croatian people in BiH should have as well as Srbin and Bošnjak. In that sense, the split of the situation may be the next, or new democratic elections, can be both general and presidential and some citizens and peoples of BiH confirm, or a full protectorate of the international community, but without the Alliance, which do not have the political will of citizens and Croatian peoples. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3353	I thank the Bureau member Jelavić, the interventions, MP Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3354	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow MPs, MPs, gentlemen of the predsjendištvo, distinguished guests, it is perfectly clear that after Mr Ante Jelavić stepped forward as a member of the BiH presidency, who named me three times, I am obliged to say a few words. I wouldn't answer if I were just mentioned once by name. Since I've been mentioned three times, I'm obliged, therefore, to say a few words. We've heard a lot of things until this step. I don't want to comment on everything that was said before. I believe that today from today's session, we will all come together much smarter, wiser, and that each of us, in accordance with what is the electoral will, which has brought us here and members of the Presidency and us as MPs, will manage our future work. I, before commenting on anything at all, would like to in some way appeal to everyone and to members of the predsjendištvo and the chairmanship of the predsjendištvo and to all of us sitting here, to act in accordance with our membership and the institutions that we represent. I am the president of a political party like Mr. Jelavić, but we still have a duty here to act, first of all as people, which I represent, a man who is in Parliament as an MP, Mr. Jelavić of the presidency, who is a member of the Presidency and I believe that in the time that is obvious before us, it is not so simple that we all together find enough reason and strength to preserve the institutions and reputation of the institutions that we represent. 60 I will just for these reasons, keep a lot of quiet, which would now be logical to say, but I must say, Mr. Jelavić is right that there is a conflict of political concepts on the scene. It's no secret, but I want very clearly to say that this is not a conflict of those political concepts that are shown behind this speaker. I want to make it clear, without any doubt, that neither the SDP nor the political option in which the SDP is now operating is trying to act productively. In no way does it question, nor does it want to question the sovereignty, equality and consistency of all three peoples in BiH. I know we still have a lot of work to do to make BiH a real state of compromise. I know that maybe what's happening to us today is, in a way, a sign that it's a democracy, a little bit here in this House, entering a big door. I believe we will cooperate in Parliament. I also call on members of the presidency, no matter how this ends, to work together to build a normal BiH, the one we talked about and swore that we would make it into the WE and so on for four years. So it's not about what we declare we will, it's about what we're really doing. I call forward and so I say, without any polemic tones, that we all cooperate or cooperate in Parliament, but that in no way means that we should co-operate by establishing a government or council of ministers, a government in entities, a Council of Ministers here, which will be a statement of a compromise of the complete Parliament, this is not naturally the case until now and there is no reason to be in the future. We will have to cooperate in any case in Parliament. When I say conflict of concepts. That's right. It is true that on the one hand, we believe that there are political forces, which, without any equating, even an attempt exists and so to speak, sometimes on the force of equality of three or four and I don't even know how many political parties. But we stand in the position that these political forces now in possession of this Council of Ministers, which has been on stage for a year, that these political parties need a lot of people and mathematics in this house to give way to political parties that will form a new council of ministers, which will give BiH and all its peoples a chance. I Jelavićn't know if it's a lapus, but I deeply disagree with you that the Federation is an entity of two constituent nations. I don't agree with that after the Constitutional Court's decision, but it's not the subject of our debate. It has not been implemented, but we all keep talking about that BiH is three equal nations, constitutional, sovereign throughout its territory. And, I really as a political person, since this is a conflict of political concepts, I must make it very clear that we have another political concept. We consider and fight to be a country and both entities of people who are equal, no matter what people they belong to. Not that there's majorization going on. I want to be responsible here. We don't need to be put in here. I didn't think this country should be arranged as America one man one vote. We're too small to be as neat as America, and this is a country of compromise, but there are mechanisms and ways in which these compromises are made. For what? What's strange is that some political group in one entity forms power, another in one canton or county some third not, it's a conflict of political concepts. The concept that is used to what is agreed in the Presidency is reduced to the last man to every municipality. We don't think it's democracy in these areas. The time has come for us to do it differently. What I am obliged to say here from this pay phone, I must express my sincere disappointment, which I have heard here from the Bureau, a question of the New Njujork Tajmsov article. We know he's not random. Is there a possible Dayton BiH and democracy together? I think that question, if Mr. Prigman can ask himself 61, I don't believe it, and I don't see any reason why we're asking ourselves here and especially that a member of the predsjendištvo is giving us this question from this pay phone. I believe that democracy and Dayton BiH are possible and, even if someone else did, I would not have the right to propagate and promote it from this pay phone. But what Mr. Jelavić is probably the biggest in all of this. There's no unilateral change in Dayton. I want to make it very clear that there is no unilateral change in the Dayton Agreement under the Alliance's cloak. Underline, no. We can convince ourselves, make arguments, but underlining isn't, and in the end, everything I say with anyone in four eyes, I'm willing to say for this pay phone and please, any insinuation of this guy, you don't need me or me, and you don't need this home. I'm always ready to answer for what I say anywhere and ever. Normally, if anyone's ready, I'm even ready for operational data to put on a table so that we can talk about it. So, I am prepared to defend and repeat such conversation in four eyes after this pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3355	I thank the Ambassador Lagumdjia. I apologize, before you asked for a replica, also, Ambassador Malkić. Member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3356	Just two things, I'd like to make it clear. When I said that the Federation is an entity of two peoples and others, and I am now ordering from this pay phone, me and my political party are pushing for the next implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, we are seeking to standardise rights, but then I cannot be put in place in the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament, but it must be a club of representatives and of the Serbian people, and so it should look like the House of Peoples in the Federation Parliament. And then Zlatko you know which way this whole process would go, that's one, the other, we're pushing for absolute standardisation of political and civil rights in the entire BiH area. I want to speak to the BiH public. Secondly, I said Dejton or democracy. Five years after Dejton, I can clearly say there is no same degree of political and civil rights in the entire BiH area.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3357	Thank you to the Bureau member. Sir, Ambassador Malkić also had an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3358	Gentlemen Chairman, members of the predsjendištvo, chairman of the House, fellow MPs, I cannot help but express my surprise, or dissatisfaction with the way this session is run today, and otherwise practice is in the conduct of this session. The flow of the union is going in the opposite direction, instead of discussing the work programme and 62 mandates, we are discussing the programme objectives and political platforms of individual political parties. That's why I'm asking you to point the debates in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3359	Intervention in place, Mr. Malkić, thank you. We have more MPs, Mr. Baković's representative. You're giving up. Thank you. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for this debate over the past three hours about the candidate for the Council of Ministers, which is the decision we received from the Presidency. Thank you both for your tolerance and for the culture of dialogue, and I can say that, however, this shows that the political ambience has changed, and that the House of Representatives, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, has the strength to face the greatest temptations in the BiH state, and if the election of the Council of Ministers is objectively not in such a position, in such a political way that it can simply destabilise or do something more important from the aspect of the functioning of this state, but simply some democracy shows its response in terms of the election of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I am obliged, given that after all these discussions, the proposals, suggestions, observations on the programme of the Prime Minister and Mr Raguž, I would like to give a word to Mr Raguž, who would also like to respond to a few reviews from the aspect of the 2001 activity programme, which he submitted. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3360	I thank Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. I think it's clear to the end how the procedure started and how it would end. It was clear to me at the beginning of the gentlemen, and I don't need anyone to explain it to me from the Alliance, I offered the interview, I offered the program, I offered my hand, I offered the people's will. So, it wasn't up to me and today I said representative government, because I think, based on what was done, there's one framework that needs to be strengthened and built and the Alliance gets into the largest part of it, but I can't say or accept cohabitation in BiH. That was my approach. He'll end up here as it ends, and we should respect that. So, those who now behind the pay phone, after all, offer their hand and refuse to provide it, have no legitimacy to challenge it to me or anyone. So we're not going by name. As for the answer to and comment on the program, I appreciate everyone's thinking and thank you, but basically I don't think there was any serious essential comment and question in terms of concept and vision. Gentlemen, BiH deserves both a medium and short-term strategy and a vision and one without another does not go. That's what I offered. Someone may not like it, but without a vision that we have to have an economic strategy for five years and bring short-term measures and laws, negotiate, around world trade, so gentlemen we have concluded in the last two months several strategic contracts. A Treaty with the European Community on Free Export of Textile, without any restrictions in all EU countries. If this is not a concrete contribution from the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers will not produce, so I guess you know what the system here, with Croatia, with Yugoslavia, we will do it now and a number of other things. 63 So it remains written down. Well, someone said it one way or another. As far as responsibility is concerned, one of my problems, which I've had lately, is what I've said, gentlemen, we respect you all from the international community, I've had a dialogue with all of us, I've tried not to say the hard word, I'm going to try today, but don't convince me that you love this country more than any of us here and that you want better my children or Zlatko or anyone else's. Maybe we're still not doing it best, but that will and that right, so if we don't run it, that responsibility, that responsibility, I said Council take over, you can hit me for what the Council should have done in that period. If it's not done, feel free to hit me. In that period, let someone tell me something, an argument that should have been done and not done, those are arguments and, secondly, the report, gentlemen chairman, I expected intervention. There was no report on the agenda. You will receive a report on the work of the Council, when it is on the agenda and I am ready and ministers and members of the Council with which this was done to bear what has been done. So I wasn't obliged to file a report. I gave an illustration as an incentive for conversation and discussion. As far as I'm concerned, I'll comment briefly on the return. I deliberately put these numbers on purpose, because they reflect our reality. I could've covered them up. Gentlemen, three months ago, we formed a four-to-five-month-a-month ministry and you saw that it still takes state leverage and functions to do some things, we become partners with OHR, RTIF, UNHCR, EU, we can't be different if we're not partners together, we take responsibility. We can write 50% that it should be returned, and if we don't create assumptions, real, regulations, finance, projects, how, and there are 12 measures about going back, so let's argue and take one measure. As for the parties I've been talking to. gosodo, I have offered everyone... at one point all the parties I have spoken to, it has not been questionable by Mr Neimarlija at least 60% of the electoral body. What happened after that, I don't want to explain. Let each one draw a conclusion, and I wouldn't be moving into this if I hadn't had your voices in sight. I think that's correct to say, and everyone's made a statement today and as far as I'm concerned. So, I also want to make it clear that I have consciously accepted the role that is difficult and I would not wish for anyone else personally, but I believe that every situation would also react to us in the same way, understanding the gravity of the situation, trying to seek compromise for BiH, trying to meet both national and individual wills and rights and trying to seek a solution that will not challenge anyone's right to say and I want to live in this country, to manage it responsibly and to make my contribution. Here, that would be, I said a long time ago, I will respect every decision of this home and the BiH presidency and I will run my stock to the end correctly. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3361	I thank the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Raguž. Given that we have completed the discussion and have fully considered the proposal for a decision by the BiH Presidency to approve the appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman, I propose that the House, in accordance with the dignity and simple dignity of this home, be defined as having the same responsibility as 64 of all of us sitting here towards BiH, according to the function of the Rules of Procedure, according to one human dignity, for a decision, that is to say, when voting for the BiH presidency's proposal. In that sense, I'm voting. 41 is present, with the right to vote. WHO is in favour of appointing the Bureau's decisions on the appointment of the chairperson of the Minsigtar Council, Mr Martin Raguž. Who's in? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The voting procedure, I'm sorry, we're here to arrange it. The procedure must not be interrupted. I beg you, who's in? Did we count it? We can do it later. Who's against clearance? Who's restrained? In the first round of voting, 41 MPs were present, voting for 8 MPs -- 21 against the vote and 9 MPs with abstention. Now we're going to vote on entities. I beg you, from... So there's no need to check the entity vote, thank you for the intervention. Here's an intervention. Here you go, Mr. lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3362	Velajca is a historic month for the peoples and citizens of BiH, let us only remember on the last day of February 92, and many will remember this session in 2001, so I ask that it be heard individually, because I doubt the results of the vote, I ask for an individual statement for a stenogram and for a historic seventh day, when the battle of the Croatian people in this House of Representatives is reputed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3363	A legitimate request from the chairman of the HDZ Club, Mr lužanski, I ask the secretary to approach the public declaration and reading. We respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3364	Šarganović Senad
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3365	I beg you no intervention, Mr. lužanski, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3366	You can't hear me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3367	Not with the chart, but for, against or abstention. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3368	Šarganović Senad – v Lagumdžija Zlatko – v Bogić Bogić Bogićević – v Imamović Muharem – v Filipović Omer – v Avdić Sead – v Kušljugić Mirza – v Kamberović Violeta – v Borić Adem – abstentioned Buturović Sead – abstentioned Mašović Amor – abstentioned Neimarlija Hilmo – abstentioned Brka Osman – abstentioned Mehtić Halil – abstentioned Kulenović Salih – abstentioned Baković Mirko – for Ljubić Mariofil – for Grabovac-Titan Peace – for Vukić Zdenko – for Andrić-andrić-lužanski Ivo – for Belkić Beriz – against Filipović Medih – against Zaćiragić Emina – against Begović Muhamed – against Lozančić Ivo – against Osmanović Bahri – against Dj Đedović against Djdić Ibrahim – absten – absten Methic – held Methic – against Mirkoj – against Mirkoj - against Banjac - against Mirkoj
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3369	For, against or abstention, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3370	Constitutional conditions are not created for a declaration. Repeat in a stenogram, for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3371	No conditions were created for a plea, no constitutional conditions were created for a declaration, but that is what Mr. Mirko Banjac said. Kovačević Ljubomir – Spasojević Zoran – Tošić Momir – Jovanović Miloš – same Mijatović Mirko – same as Mr Banjac Bilbija Željko – v 66 Stokić Dušan – v Lolić Branislav – v Gligorić Tihomir – for Mirjanić Željko – v Malkić Abdurahman – abstention – forgive me something wrong Stanimirović drag – v Šašivarević Nedžad – v
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3372	And this is a useful intervention of lužanski MPs. We have the final – the definitive results of the vote for the candidate of the Council of Ministers' Presidency voted 6 MPs – against 21 MPs – with 9 abstentions – 6 MPs did not vote, with the finding given. Mr. Banjac reporting for word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3373	Dear gentlemen, the esteemed Mr Jelavić, today and here, no constitutional conditions have been created for a plea and therefore I ask once more for the third time, that the College of the House of Representatives in writing deliver an answer to the question of the SDS Club. The second question, too, is that in writing, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, if it is still called that, takes a stand on the same issue and informs us in writing, as a parliamentary club. Thirdly, I have sought and asked again, on behalf of the SDS MPs' Club, to conclude here that it is mandatory and urgent to form the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly in order to be able to work in this assembly. So please formulate the next conclusion. The House of Representatives asks the competent institutions, and I no longer know who it is, I believe that I do not know who it is, so I must say a term that does not essentially mean anything to the competent institutions that is urgently forming the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in order to establish the constitutional work of the Assembly. So the conclusion is quite clear. You need to do it again. Chairman, you need to do it again. You don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3374	Ladies and gentlemen, given the need to establish the Council of Ministers, the SDP MPs' club is supported by another number of political parties in Parliament, based on Article 121. The Rules of Procedure, proposed a resolution on the emergency appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers to political parties that have a majority in the House of Representatives. The text of the resolution is next. Starting with the provisions of Article 5. 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution and Article 6. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers and BiH Ministries, the Parliamentary House of 67th Assembly of BiH, requires the BiH Presidency to immediately appoint as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers of Ministers who has the support of most MPs – representative of the House of Representatives, to approve the House of Representatives' appointment. This Resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. In Sarajevo, 7.02.2001, we propose that gentlemen chairing the House be made aware of the text of this resolution and refer to the BiH presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3375	He has an intervention from MP Ljubić, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3376	I count that we are very serious representatives and MPs, that we want to implement the BiH Constitution, that we do not want to derogate the BiH Constitution in this way, to take constitutional powers of one of the most important bodies of BiH, such as BiH, the Presidency that was active and which is, in addition to not getting answers, whether we have all the conditions for work, has proposed to appoint a man as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it has performed its function, and now that we are trying to change the Constitution by some perverse means. What happens is, when we establish something else, then we won't have to come here at all, but even if I don't, if we read Article 121. Rules of Procedure, only paragraph 2 should have the agenda first, so that we can discuss it in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3377	Ambassador Lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3378	It seems to question the older the BiH Constitution or the Rules of Procedure. In the BiH Constitution, Article 5(4) clearly states that the presidency is obliged to appoint the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, no rules of procedure can be older and no resolution can be older than the constitutional obligation of the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3379	Thank you, Ambassador lužanski. I suggest a 15-minute break on behalf of the College. In the course of the implementation of point 2 we have received two other proposals, one of Mr Banjac's written form, which you have also received on the parliamentary benches and another motion for a resolution on the emergency appointment of the Council of Ministers, with the signature of 22 MPs. [[PAUZA]] Is there a need to specifically explain the suggestions? Mr. Borić. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3380	Madam Chairman, the Club of Members of the SDA, following this exhausting session and the points we had on the agenda, has read this resolution and is proposing to this parliamentary assembly the following conclusion, which should be determined, which is called upon by the BiH Presidency, to establish, in accordance with its constitutional position, the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers more urgently. That's the club's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3381	We have an alternative motion for a resolution on behalf of the SDA Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3382	Please, ladies and gentlemen, since the engagement refers to the constitution, the completion of the establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly, the SDS Club will only plead on this issue, because it is from the domain of the constitution, which we said in the last session. We don't want to challenge the constitution. We plead only, we pleaded at the last session, we pleaded from the domain of the constitution. As soon as the constitutional constitution is over, we continue to decide everything. We work, we don't strike, we work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3383	Okay, this is an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3384	When it comes to the conclusion, or the draft conclusion on the agenda that was here today, I support Mr Banjac's proposal, but when it comes to Resolution, I ask the chairperson, or the College. When was that put on the agenda? We accepted today, adopted the agenda, in which article, you refer to Article 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It may take place, that is, under Article 8 before the session begins, not in one or two thirds of the session. If I have to, I'll get involved later, I'm just asking for an answer from the College. When is this listed on the agenda? Whether or not at the beginning of the session is now either required for business or regulated at the time of the session, a new item on the agenda, because Resolution implies a new item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3385	The explanation of the Members of the Proposing Resolution. You are entitled up to 20 minutes to explain the resolution and the need to put it within point 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3386	I asked you to interpret to me what article of the Rules of Procedure you're putting this on the agenda. He can't do that. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3387	So, in point two. After the implementation, i.e. the voting procedure, as I could understand, the conditions for one political resolution were met, this is a deep political issue, calling on the Presidency to urgently appoint another candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers and this came absolutely from the realization of the point, as well as the conclusion of Mr Banjac. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3388	There can't be a resolution, there can be a conclusion. There's a problem. The resolution can't be.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3389	Please, let's go to parliamentary procedure. Mr. Miro Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3390	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, believe me, I'm tired of going out today. I don't know what's wrong with me or something's wrong with me or this is really breaking over my knee. Here it says in the Resolution that it is required by the BiH presidency. Gentlemen, from the SDP, request equal sanctions. If you're asking someone, then you're able to sanction someone, if they don't comply with your request. So, I mean, look at you on the legal side. So, the request, the same sanctions, and it can't be called to Article 121. Rules of Procedure and looking for a resolution on this. So, and to demand from the BiH Presidency, which is a long-term institution and which is authorised by an institution and which cannot be imposed when it will propose and when it deems it appropriate to do so, it stands in the Constitution of BiH within which time and when it is responsible to propose the mandate of the Council of Ministers. I don't think the resolution can go in any way. The conclusion I think may exist, but he has to be quite different-conceived and he can't demand from the presidency. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3391	Thank you, Ambassador Grabovac. Let's move on. Business intervention of Mr. Ljubić, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3392	Thank you, it's not much of a business, but I'd also like to ask the College to plead, is it point 2. Finished, let the College plead, then we'll go on about everything. If the College declares itself in one way or another, then I will ask the Constitutional Commission to state what form of this conclusion or resolution should be, or recommendations or something else. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3393	A member of the college asked a question and was instructed that the College withdraw for five minutes and try to agree. There's no other way. Thank you. 70 We in the College were unable to agree and reach a political consensus on whether item 2 of the vote was completed and whether the resolution, i.e. the conclusions, could be the subject of an examination under point 2. gospodin Ljubić believes that the act of voting ended point 2. If I'm a good interpreter. [[PAUZA]] Željko and I believe that the reason for the resolution came from the context of the very act of voting and the newly created situation in item 2, in the realization of point 2 and that each MP is in line with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina have the opportunity to present the text of the resolution, on which the House can be declared and where home should be defined. Whether to submit it to the commission for a preliminary review, or directly vote on the resolution. So it's an interpretation of the College, which is not in line. In that sense, here I am opening the discussion. I give my word to Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3394	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed fellow MPs - it is too late, it is not usual for Parliament, or the House of Representatives to work so late, in previous meetings at least it was not a practice, so we are probably a little tired. The resolution we have offered is an act, which we also consider to be from these 22 signatures, which is one act, which seeks to establish political guidelines for BiH's competent institutions. The resolution itself, it can be procedured, we can argue about it for a very long time, but we're not going anywhere, we're not going anywhere. This resolution is only in a certain way a distraction of public attention to the Bosnian Herzegovina and BiH institutions, above all to the Presidency, to respect the parliamentary majority. We have submitted this resolution to the possibility that now that we have submitted a resolution, under this item of the agenda, we should vote and, after the vote, realize that there is a majority who believes that this should be included. That's not controversial. However, this again just means further outsmarting continues to stretch procedures, which will not take us anywhere. If you agree, esteemed fellow MPs, we can as a gesture of goodwill, precisely seeking some kind of compromise is the essential political will that is expressed in this. The Bureau may, on the basis of this resolution, disobey that resolution and now that it is unanimously adopted here and if we agree on a complete procedure, it can do so again, if it wishes, but this shows a certain will. We are prepared as legislators, I would like to say that, if you think that this is something that we can agree on here, to respect that we have submitted this resolution to the Parliamentary Assembly as a proposal, that the point of this resolution, as you can see, can be, you have it in front of you, that it should be the conclusion. So this point 1 that I don't read, that's the conclusion and that the Presidency this conclusion, with the relevant materials to see who suggested this, is a guide, and then let it do with whatever it wants and be determined in an appropriate way. I think it's kind of an attempt to get out of this one in a rational way. So it's not disputed that in this situation, this is how we can vote this resolution, but it doesn't lead to anything, we haven't achieved anything new, there's no new quality. This conclusion, here which is, is in some way a compromise between what has already been offered here and said. Therefore, the conclusion of what is under point 1 is 71, and that this conclusion is forwarded to the Bureau today with a motion for a resolution as an addendum to the fact that it is actually proposed to Parliament, which shows that there is a majority. And as for Mr Banjac's proposal, if I may suggest, it is not a dispute for all of us here, it should have made additional efforts to form the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and we all agree, because we know that tomorrow and when we establish the Council of Ministers, and when we adopt appropriate legislative proposals, that they again require verification in the House of Peoples and we all understand that. It is in everyone's interest here to form the House of People as soon as possible and to get out of this stalemate position with the House of Peoples. That is why there is no reason for us all here to agree in an appropriate way that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, as it says here, to adopt the conclusion that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, of the competent institutions, is being called upon to urgently form the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH point. That's what I said point. Because accepting such a conclusion, Mr. Banjac, could only open a new debate about the constitutionality of everything we've done so far. So let's be very clear and clear about everything. It is not disputed for us and I repeat, once again, that we all share the view that the House of Nations should be formed as soon as possible. If Mr. Banjac is such a conclusion for you, there's no reason why we shouldn't go to each other's meetings, and that would be these two, so to speak of proposals, which I think there's a possibility that after such a hard day, where a lot of big words from this pay phone are still being said in some quieter waters that are not a bar.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3395	I thank Ambassador Lagumdžija. Ambassador Lužanski. I'm sorry, Ivo. It was an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3396	Of course, gentlemen, I'm willing to make a deal, but here I am holding here today, the inquiry was sent to the OSCE as regards the House of Peoples. The OSCE admits, and I can read it, the OSCE admits we're running out of people's homes. The results of November general elections were technically confirmed on 27 November 2000. That day, the mandates of the legislative bodies that have chosen delegates for the current composition of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH expired, in accordance with an adept member of parliamentary practice, require that the mandates, especially from these bodies, cease when the bodies they have chosen are released. So, gentlemen, we don't have the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, and I'm not asking for anything else, but for that to be the conclusion to be the point in point 5. The Constitution. We can add here. Don't run away. What are we running from the Constitution for? What would they run for? The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, asking the competent institutions to urgently form the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in order to agree with the Constitution. For what it's worth, I'm not giving up on the Constitution. That's not a speech. Once we've given up, you're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3397	We're all probably tired, because here we are for nine hours practically taking this session, and I'd like to warn you about Article 70. You, Mr. Chairman, also on your obligation to declare the results of the vote, to declare that Mr. Raguž has not been elected 72 prime ministers of the Council of Ministers, and that is the end of the second item of the agenda. So, we want to open the procedure and put on a new agenda, and in that case we will have to follow the Rules of Procedure, Articles 49, 50, and 51. Speaking, how and how the agenda is defined. How to place new points on the agenda and everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3398	You heard the message, so the conclusions and resolutions, after the act of voting, was completed point 2 so according to Mr lužanski's position and in this context, it is too far-fetched to consider anything else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3399	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think Mr. lužanski position would be correct if we were talking about some other matter that wasn't within the second item of the agenda. We can formulate it in phases. The first conclusion is, the results of the vote are such and such, that is the first position of the act or decision. The second position, which can be translated into a resolution or conclusion as Mr Lagumdžija suggested and the continuation of the same matter and nothing else and is not the second item of the agenda or the second agenda. That's the only way we're finishing our mission on this project called the chairman's election, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3400	Replica, Ambassador lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3401	The article to be called upon shall also have paragraph 2. Who says any MP can submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session unless the House decides that it is necessary to consider the commission first. However, Article 47,48,49. They're talking about how to formulate the agenda. This is a new agenda for us. The second item of the agenda is completed, Mr. Chairman, when you declare the results of the vote, in accordance with Article 70, it is your obligation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3402	Thank you, Agent lužanski. Ambassador Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3403	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are all tired, but it is our task, which is why we are chosen to do our duty as we are expected by those who have chosen us and to do what is best for BiH and for the citizens and for the people of BiH and for the expectations of the international community, we do what is best for all of us, as Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija and the rest. We're still on the agenda of the second agenda, and I think we're all clear on that. As the predecessors have said, nothing has been declared. We're in the agenda. What does that mean? This means that it is in line with the agenda point and the proposed resolution, which may be the conclusion, but which we all here who are present today 73 is exhausting ourselves on this agenda, gives us an open door, that we can say that we have made a good conclusion or resolution, which will allow the Presidency to do, very quickly and effectively, how the parliamentary majority within the democratic Alliance for Change will do in the interest of BiH, us all here citizens and the people of BiH. And if that's the case, and we're constitutional, I have to read a passport from that document we got from OHR. Among other things, it is said: one of the functions, where according to the Constitution, a capital letter, is given the specific authority of one of the 5th BiH homes, is once again the constitutional authority of the House of Representatives to approve the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and after that towards... which he proposes. That's what the OHR wrote, and we all have it here, and I don't think we should be exhausting ourselves about whether it's constitutional and about what I read, what MP Lagumdžija suggested behind the score, Mr Banjac's proposal should not stand at all, because this is constitutional. As for that, for this conclusion and for this, I believe it is our duty and duty to declare today both the resolution and the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3404	Thank you, Ambassador Šarganović. Mr. Lužanski again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3405	I'm really forced to read article 70 now and if you all have rules of procedure. Article 70 says that at the end of the voting procedure, the chairman will declare how many members were in favour, how many against and how many abstentions, and the results of the vote by representatives from the territory of each entity, as provided for in the Constitution of Article 4.3.d. BiH Constitution, Section 7. It goes further that I have the right to request a record. There's no further procedure. This Regulation shall enter Also, I want to repeat here, that the amendments we have the right MPs to propose under this resolution, which is here outside the business table, during the session, but we only got it now, and we have neither the possibility nor the business order that the resolution at the end of the point under Article 70 when we declared that it could be later. I don't think there's any need to outwit ourselves here. You can call a new session, put this on the agenda, and I think it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3406	Thank you, Agent lužanski. Ambassador Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3407	You see, the way I see this thing, I have a feeling, and we're overly interpreting it, and we're always interpreting this psolnik, and then we're getting a little tangled up. If you remember Mr. Chairman, he found out how much it was for as long as it was against, as long as it was restrained, he even recorded it loudly, and as much as it was by entities, so he did what was provided for in Article 70, he did it, but he didn't say I'm closing point 2. We now, here we went through the resolution. We are now proposing, within this point, one conclusion, about the results of the vote and nothing else, so we propose that the conclusion be reached, that we move towards the Presidency that there are 22 MPs in this assembly, who make up the majority and propose 74 prime ministers, and I do not see what the problem is. I don't remember him saying that sentence, I'm closing point 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3408	Don't get out of place.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3409	I suggest that,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3410	I was the first to suggest a conclusion, and then he and you are now doing the opposite of the Rules of Procedure. [[speaks from the site]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3411	Mr. Banjac. Representative Lužanski has challenged the right to reach any conclusion or resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3412	He didn't dispute my conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3413	It's not yours or ours. The conclusion is on the principle of that. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3414	Let me finish. I suggest that we change the form into a conclusion that will end the debate, i.e. point 2 in this way, to end point 2 with this conclusion. There doesn't have to be a resolution, there's no need to make a statement, there's no need, there's no constitutional-legal commission, there's eyesight, there's judgment, it's simply by voting here to figure out who's behind that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3415	22 MPs proposed a resolution, which was later translated into a conclusion. The SDA, the Club of MPs also proposed a conclusion. Mr. Banjac on behalf of the SDS Club suggested, too, the conclusion. Which means the conclusion is not the opposite that it can come from any item of the agenda under consideration. So it's not forbidden for a point to come up with one conclusion, to express the political attitude and attitude of this home. Mr. Lužanski again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3416	Article 61, which I did not purposely want, which states that any item on the agenda is to be considered before making a decision on it. So we made a decision on the 2nd agenda we had today. I don't know what we're going to consider right now. 2. The agenda item is, therefore, in accordance with Article 61. Rules of Procedure 75 completed. We can discuss, vote, and that's it. I don't know what else to prove here about the correctness and not the correctness of my claim.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3417	All opinions are legitimate and should be respected. Is anyone else answering for a word? Sir, Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3418	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we have come to a chore-sock and I roaring about not being a chore-sock and not staying here for a long time, I suggest a truly compromise solution. If we can accept this conclusion proposed by the president of the SDA Club, it is a compromise solution and we believe that the Presidency will act as responsibly as possible to find a man who will be the new chairman of the Council of Ministers. So, if we don't prejudge the thing that they're supposed to give it to, they're certainly in consultation with certain, mutual consultations and with other people to consult with, that's where we're going to come to the conclusion, that we're not prejudge the matter now and we're saying we should right now. I think this is a compromise and that they will work for BiH's good and that that way they will find a way out of this. Here we can outsmart ourselves for another two three hours, with the Rules of Procedure with this and that and we'll end up having different views after all. For that reason, I suggest we take this, take this as a solution and finish this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3419	Mr. Chairman, in order to avoid any misunderstandings, we do not have behind this resolution, which we thought was a resolution, or whether it is a compromise that means a conclusion, we are prepared to accept that this is the conclusion in the form of point 1 of this resolution and to simply save ourselves the effort by persuading one another, whether a resolution or not can be reached under this point, nor does there be any need to vote on whether the resolution can or cannot. We know that we have most of it, but we still don't see the purpose of, to show, to demonstrate most of it. We didn't want to offer a resolution, in which we would put the name and name of the prime minister, but I don't think there are any misunderstandings. I want to clear and loud from this pay phone to inform both your colleagues and the public of your homework, these journalists who are still here who are not suspended and who are watching us. We have a mandater, so Mr. Mijatović's name has already been in some kind of doubt. Mr. Jelavić said the candidate's name, which we propose to be the prime minister and no secret. We don't want to drag some candidates into office here under the resolution firm so we can put some names in here for some tricks. It's not about any tricks, no secret resolutions, that have some side-eyes in them. On the contrary, we believe that, having regard to the provisions of Article 5. Constitution of BiH, Article 6. The law on the Council of Ministers and ministries and respecting the fact that we have discussed today, that we have, from what is seen in this resolution, one parliamentary majority that we think the Presidency should inform and suggest that they behave in accordance with the democratic, let me put it this way, the practice, the countries we seek. For these very reasons, the SDP, its potential partners in one alliance, the Alliance, call it whatever you want, one group of political parties, who want a different way, on another 76 political concept, as it is said here, perhaps to go out with the chairman of the Council of Ministers who would form a government, or Council of Ministers who has a majority and our proposal, has already been said here by the academic professor. Božidar Matić. It's no secret. I hereby inform the public, our candidate, the SDP candidate is Prof. Dr. Matić. I don't know if he's someone's countryman, but Mr. Matić was born u the Bogatić, the man graduated from high school, graduated from the Electrical Engineering Faculty, I don't want to, we'll deliver the biography to all of you, the biography of the candidates, for which we inform. No secrets, please. What I'm saying is, there are no secrets behind this. We are merely proposing that the presidency be informed in this way, the metric way of informing the majority, and that we have a candidate from the SDP in that majority, named academician Božidar Matić, and we expect the Presidency to respect this respectable fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3420	We have men proposed three conclusions, once again representative Lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3421	I'm gonna have to look closer to sitting here. Respecting all this, I ask the College to interpret, pause five minutes and interpret Article 61.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3422	Thank you, Agent lužanski. We accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3423	In order to end this discussion, which went into formal interpretation now, I would remind you of the fact that the conclusion is as a form of internal character, that there is no conclusion that we have no authority outside this home to commit to anything. Number one. Under number two. And if it becomes a conclusion, given the character of this structure and refers to positions, in fact the Presidency and the Assembly of BiH, we have this combination, the presidential-parliamentary system, and neither we can ask them to do what they or they do to us, there is, because behind the resolution, or the proposal and colleagues of Banjac, there is a tendency for the public, and not only the members of the Presidency to commit themselves, to do what is actually their and formal legal duty but also the political obligation provided for by this resolution of the SDP, I would ask the payers of the conclusions, or resolution, which is proposed in conclusion that they give up the conclusion that they would simply end this, in my court, not a productive debate, because the original objective, as I understood, was the motives of the promoter, was that the public was interested in the problem and in this case for the models of resolving of the SDP resolution. The model is to respect the parliamentary majority etc. I'd like to invite the real promoters to give up their conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3424	Thank you, Ambassador Neimarlija. It's still a 10-minute break. 77 The College agreed, consulting legal experts from PD PSBiH, we propose the following conclusion: the SDP has facilitated the situation and returned the conclusion to the original form of resolution and put it in parliamentary procedure, so that it is proposed that we do not conduct a debate on it. [[PAUZA]] We can take you to one of the next sessions. That's one. Under two, the conclusions proposed at the House of Representatives' meetings provide that they can be established and adopted only in specific cases which are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure. This means that we are also proposing to Mr Banjac that the conclusion he has proposed goes into parliamentary procedure. In what form, let the SDS Club determine it. That's our attitude. Here you go. He has the right MP Banjac to...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3425	Dear gentlemen, you can think whatever you want and I can't dispute it. I'm asking as an MP to vote on my conclusion since, sir, you didn't say in the stenogram that the point was closed and that you were moving on to the next one. What I can do, I'm looking for a stenogram that's completely clear. And I dictate how the conclusion will go, in what form, not you. You as a College have the right as an MP to say whether you're up for it or against it. That's what you'll say during the vote. But you gentlemen cannot decide the fate of what I have proposed as an MP. You have no right to do that. And I demand as an MP that my conclusion goes to the vote in the form that you have received. And I can if that means anything to you just... It doesn't. Then it goes in the proposed form.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3426	I'd like to ask Mr. Banjac to finish his thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3427	Please, just let me tell you. I'm looking for the conclusion that it is, because I'm simply saying that we'll have trouble working if we don't have the House of Peoples. I do not, in my opinion, dispute that the House of Representatives was established. For me, he's been built. And I'm asking you to know that exactly. So, I am looking for a conclusion to establish another home, to get the work of the Parliamentary Assembly in accordance with Article IV of the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3428	I repeat, once again, that the proposed conclusion of the SDS Club could not be classified as Article 137 or has a foothold in Poslovnik. It means that the conclusion comes out of these frames. It's not our position, it's the attitude and legal experts that were together with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3429	I've got a suggestion, maybe it'll be a compromise. Do you, gentlemen of the College, see that you are trying to read the Rules of Procedure, which I am glad, I am happy about it. Let me ask you, I have the right as an MP during the session to extend the agenda. He's got that right and the SDP. And what happens if we extend 78 agendas, if anything changes. Don't say that. Here, read, here I am as an MP asking you, may I ask for an extension of the agenda. Can I ask, I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3430	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3431	Okay, here I am looking for an extension of the agenda. Well, of course, that's what I'm asking, and that's your attitude. [[whispers]] So, making a conclusion, formulating a point – the preliminary conclusion on the establishment of the House of Nations. So I suggest that the agenda be extended to a point called the House of the Peoples' Conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3432	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. I'm saying that we're done with point two. I beg you, therefore, all proposals and in the process of realising the agenda are legitimate and there are no problems. Ambassador Stokić called. Please, we have the right to listen to other MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3433	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we're draining ourselves needlessly. We're already tired. We've been sitting here for 9-10 hours. Today we've talked more times, it needs more tolerance, it needs more understanding, I think things that don't deserve that much energy, so much time for all of us. Most of us are over 200 kilometers away, we should go and travel all night and tomorrow at seven o'clock to go to work. If we've spent so much time in this, if we said so before, we're in a contradictory situation. We claim that the agenda doesn't end, when Mr lužanski insists it's over and in the end we're saying it's over that there's nothing left to put on the agenda. It is very important that the constitutional procedure is respected. I said that in my first address. What bothers us now is to make a statement about this proposal by Mr. Banjac. I think it's legitimate of his right as an MP to ask us to plead, that's one very important thing. So, not only that, I would even ask to establish responsibility for what has not been established so far by the House of Peoples. What isn't it for? So this congregation can work properly. So there are key things, and you keep trying to push aside and do some peripheral things. Therefore, I suggest that the agenda point be put to the vote to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3434	So we have a proposal to expand the agenda, with a new agenda point, once again, MP Lužanski. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3435	Mr. Chairman, Article 50. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, says that at the beginning of the session, a new agenda is being established, amended or proposed. I don't think it's appropriate that in the end here's a ten-hour work, we suggest a new agenda and new points.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-07-0.u3436	We're closing the debate. I've been warned specifically, the agenda cannot be extended. You can start by considering the adoption of the agenda. The session cannot be extended. That's one thing. Article 137 does not allow this conclusion to be put simply within the framework of the Poslvonik-Lovnik which is before us. In this sense, there is simply no possibility that the conclusion proposed by Mr. Banjac is simply to declare ourselves, or simply to extend the agenda in terms of regaining the confidence of this proposal by Mr. Banjac. Thank you very much. Moving to point 3. The agenda of today’s session, which was both arduous and full of temptations. Point three is quite clear, we've defined it. Two new MPs today took an oath, taking seats in commissions and the House of Representatives committees, those who took up their predecessors, which were Mr Branko Dokić of the PDP and Mr Hamdija Kulović of the Party for BiH. They are replaced by Mr Željko Bilbija, who is taking seats in the adequate commissions in which Branko Dokić was, with one further proposal, Ms Emina Zaćiragić at the Commission on Foreign Trade and the Commission on Transport and Communications, within the party itself, proposed to take the place of Beriz Belkić. It is a proposal, a harmonised proposal and a College and simply requires parliamentary parties, places that are practical in quite unequivocal and clear. Can we go to a vote on this issue? Thank you. Who's in? Who's against it? We don't mind. Who's being held back? We've got some abstentions. Thank you. It is not disputed, a total of 41 MPs are present. The vote was 23 – against no one – with a abstention of 3, a number of MPs did not vote. So we suggest we go after the entities as well. Who's in favor of the RS entity? Thank you. Who is from the Federation of BiH entity? We have one correction, with the recalculation of 41 present in the first round of voting, voted 33 – it was a mistake – against no one – abstention 3. According to the entities for the Federation of BiH – for 26 – RS for 8, which can be concluded that this proposal has received the necessary majority and entityal and in this sense, so I realize that the new members of the commission have been elected, a verifiable proposal and I thank you for today's session, for your co-operation and for your full degree of tolerance. The session is over at 9:00.
