ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1270	Gentlemen, honourable envoys, your Excellencys, guests, media representatives, once again a lovely greeting. I am opening the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The 12th president of the House of Nations is present with 15 delegates. So, five from the Bosniak order, from the order of Croatia and from the order of the Serb people. Since we have a quorum and we can make decisions in full, I suggest we move to the realization of this agenda, this session. I would just like to get to know you that we are planning for the work of the 12th session of the House of Nations to take place until 3 p.m., that between 3 and 4 there will be a break and from 4 as long as it takes the implementation of the agenda to the last points of the agenda, and that is the law on succession and budget rebalancing, which will be implemented tomorrow, given the business obligations to leave the possibility of giving amendments after the meeting of the Commission, and I suggest that tomorrow's session, the continuation of the session, and I assume that you are informed of this planned pace of work by the Secretariat starts at 10 o'clock. The draft agenda you received, a harmonised agenda by the College. I would just like to point out that the 16th point is the real name of the report on the expenditures of BiH institutions for the first nine months. So there is also the Presidency and other institutions and that is our business law and obligations and constitutional obligation of the Presidency to inform this House about the spending of the Presidency's funds and other institutions, if the envoys so request. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Does one of the envoys answer the question? Is there any need to read the agenda complete? 1. Answer to delegates' questions and delegates' questions 2. The Law on Administrative Disputes in BiH – Second Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 3. The Statistics Act – Second Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 4. The Law on concessions – second reading – shall be proposed by the Council of Ministers; 5. Industrial Property Act – Second Reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 6. Demining Act – Second reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 7. Consumer Protection Act in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading; 2 8. Law on copyright and related rights in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second Initiative; 9. Law on State Service in BiH institutions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading; 10. Law on interstate and inter-entity road transport – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – first reading; 11. Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Austria on the promotion and protection of investments – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 12. Trade agreement between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan – BiH Presidency; 13. Agreement between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the promotion and protection of investments – BiH Presidency; 14. Report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples; 15. Information on the direct... implementation of all conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe; 16. Report on the expenditures of BiH institutions for the first nine months of 2001; 17. Law on the purpose and use of the assets that BiH receives under the Agreement on the Ex-SFRJ Sucession - Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 18. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Execution of the Budgets of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2001 - First Reading - BiH Presidency; 19. The budget rebalancing of the BiH institution and BiH's 2001 interstate commitments – first reading – the BiH Presidency. Who's answering for a word? A proposal for a revision of the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Spahić's esteemed envoy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1271	Dear Chairman, colleagues of the Honorable Chairman, member of the predsjedništvo, Belkić and members of Parliament, let me remind you that I have sent the College of the House of Peoples of BiH two proposals concerning the direct session of the one where we are now. The first proposal concerns the debate I asked for on a special agenda or special session concerning the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions on the constitutions of the RS and the Federation of BiH. The explanation was very precise in two sentences. First, that each of the scheduled deadlines for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions, which we agreed on in the framework of a common process of building new relations in BiH and meeting all the conditions in defending human rights and freedoms, full of equality between citizens, national minorities and peoples across the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Another argument is that if anyone is invited to talk about vital national interests, then it is called a home, which is this home of the BiH People's House, which is at BiH level in charge of ensuring the interests of Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat alike, as well as all citizens of BiH, regardless of who they and whose nation they belong to and how they plead. 3 After the Constitution of BiH and our overall engagement, on this issue, of course, we have defined the position of the institutions responsible for the implementation of these instructions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and it is known that this House has shown exceptional sensitivity to national issues in BiH, because it has defined the law on the protection of ethnic national minorities in BiH, precisely its democratic position and defence of the interests of all BiH citizens, the same way throughout BiH, in accordance with European and world standards relating to human rights and freedoms. My proposal was, therefore, very practical and precise, given the constitutional position of the House of Peoples of BiH, I considered it necessary to run as a part of the agenda or as an extraordinary session of the House of Peoples. I would just like to say that I cited it in my proposal, as a proposal for the next session, and I would like to ask for an explanation whether the College has discussed this issue, whether it has an exact answer, so that it is clear to the public what procedural meaning we are now in relation to this initiative. We do not call on you to plead today that you would simply have it on the agenda or not, but I would like to know at this stage what the response and attitude of the BiH House of Peoples College is. That's the first thing. So, I expect an answer, as much as I could register by the chairman after the completion of my resignation and statement. The second thing about the agenda, given the position of the BiH presidency and the position of the BiH House of Peoples, as well as the BiH House of Representatives' House of Hope and the growing threat to the security and security of the citizens of BiH in the entire territory of BiH and the development of the services of police and secret services or services as it is already called with different names, I also felt that the vital interest of the House of Peoples of BiH and the House of Representatives and as a delegate and as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on behalf of the Commission was also a question of setting up a new body of work, which would be a parliamentary body to control the work of police services in the territory of all BiH. Considering there's a so-called. I thank Mr Belkić for his correction, the vacuum in the solutions that speak of members of the presidency making their decisions to the heads of the secret police, the BiH presidency itself. So, as a Parliamentary Assembly, which has a relationship between the Presidency, the executive authority and its own role, I believe that we must establish one body that will allow parliamentary control over the work of these services, in a way that will ensure that all representatives of parliamentary parties in the House of Representatives, i.e. an adequate structure in the House of Peoples, as we have today, are represented in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. So, I am convinced that BiH does not benefit, neither BiH citizens, the current situation when it comes to this area of security and security, either internally or in the region of Southeast Europe, or in the context of our overall activity, when it comes to security and security in the country and in the world, it is simply that we are one of the most prominent zones in Europe and the world and that we have one of the most widespread networks of diaspora and displaced and refugees compared to the number of people on the planet at all. In view of all of this, I believe that the great damage and direct threat to the security of citizens produce unsettled legal regulations and a lack of 4 parliamentary controls on these services. It can be said and there can be a dilemma of course whether we have a foothold in where we are as Parliament etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1272	I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1273	I'm just asking you not to explain, my call was to get two colleges to set up on this issue. I would also ask the College to receive information, because it was a request that was urgent and applied to this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1274	I'm thanking you. I would ask all the envoys and delegates to get what they want as information from the chairman and the College of Requests before the session or after the session. I understand, but not so much the need to publicly ask answers to your questions. I'll say next. As for the initiative, which Mr Ibrahim Spahić delivered to the chairman, or to the College, they were the subject of an examination at the College. By respecting the Rules of Procedure and his own commitment, the College felt that none of these initiatives had come under conditions to be found as a part of the agenda at today's session. As for some initiatives, we have chosen to contact the College of the Other House and to examine whether there is an interest in, possibly a joint session under this plan and Mr Spahić and all others, I would ask that, in the debate on the agenda, to focus, in principle, on a request to include certain points of the agenda which may be the conclusions, therefore, Mr Spahić and all may suggest that this point be considered today and that the House will declare whether it will be on the agenda or not the resolution goes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as already known as the business procedure, as are the laws. In this context, I am prepared to Spahić in more detail what I personally am going to do, but I would ask the other envoys and delegates to, possibly, report to the floor if they have concrete proposals to supplement or amend the agenda. If no one is answering for a word, I find that we have a agenda and that we can formally vote this agenda, although it is purely considered that what the College has agreed and is a business obligation not to declare itself, but I would ask you once again to express your commitment to this order that I have read. Who's up for this agenda? Do you mind? The agenda adopted unanimously, as proposed by the College. Ad.1. I would particularly like to express my gratitude on behalf of the House to the member of the Bureau of Honorable Mr. Beriz Belkić at his presence at this point in the agenda and show a little disdain in order not to offend the deputy ministers, which we do not have today any Ministers from the Council here present at the meeting. At the same time, I would like to conclude that we are not like the College, the Secretary-General, whether I am mistaken, did not get an answer to an envoy's question, which was asked by the Council of Ministers at the last session, and in this context I would ask the envoys to report for, possibly, new envoy issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1275	The speaker, Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1276	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I have made this both transparently and publicly announced, and now I want to do so on the basis of Articles 117 and 122 in accordance with Article 118. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, ask the following questions to the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Whether the BiH presidency and the foreign ministry were previously familiar with the organisation and objectives of the visit of the RS delegation to the Russian Federation and the delegation of the Ministry of Defence of the Federation of BiH to Israel. Two, if the BiH presidency and the foreign ministry are not familiar with these visits, what will make the adverse consequences for BiH and its citizens, who have seen deviations or at least decreases in these visits. Three, what will the BiH presidency and the BiH Foreign Ministry do to avoid future situations like this? Four, is it accurate that the RS government has made a decision to open representations in the SRJ, the Russian Federation, Greece, Israel, Germany, the United States and, if true, what will be done against these illegal decisions? Explanation. Article 3.1a. BiH's foreign policy falls under the exclusive jurisdiction of BiH institutions and on the basis of Article 5.3a. The BiH presidency is in charge of foreign policy management. Also, in Article 42. The Council of Ministers Act states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is relevant for the operational implementation of foreign policy under the global management of the Presidency. It is clear from those provisions that entities and entity institutions are not competent to conduct foreign policy. Such procedures damage BiH's international reputation, and it is evident that BiH citizens are damaged through the unintended use of entity budgets, therefore measures should be taken to remove the adverse consequences caused by such behaviour, and no such and similar situations will arise in the future. I am willing to listen to the oral explanation today, but I would certainly like to hear after this and the written explanation, since, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as chairman, I intend to initiate a debate on this issue, after obtaining all relevant information. Mr. Belkić is a member of the presidency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1277	I welcome you all. So, I'll take my turn. We are not familiar with the goals and reasons of the visit of the RS delegation to the Russian Federation, nor the delegation, or the Minister of 6 defences of the Federation of BiH and the people who went with it. We did it next. At last session of the Bureau, we were unanimous, in conclusion, obliged by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to inform us urgently about the way and reasons for the departure of these two delegations and whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was in coordination with these two delegations that made these two visits. For the future, we asked the Council of Ministers to create clear procedures and ways of operating the document "Rights and priorities of foreign policy", which was established by the Presidency, to be clearer, therefore, all those structures that have ambitions and intentions to, possibly, do something within that document, are required to do so in accordance with the appropriate procedures and with the agreement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the Presidency. Lastly, when it comes to these representations, to be honest, I don't have accurate exact information, but here's Mr. Tokić next to your question, we're going to ask the government of the entity, or the RS, because you mentioned it, to get the exact information whether it really is or not and, of course, to warn them that it is against constitutional and that such activity cannot be done in entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1278	Thank you. I'll remind everyone, therefore, that even asking questions and answers should be up to three minutes. Any other answer can only be the subject of written information. He answered for the word, which is now respected. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word and then Mr. Špirić. At the same time, I remind you that it is necessary to submit a written question to the chairman. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1279	Ladies and gentlemen, I have three questions, two I've managed to process in writing. I'll put one behind the pay phone today orally, and then I'll write it down. On the basis of the provision of Article 117. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask the Council of Ministers of BiH the following questions: 1. Whether or not a tender has been opened for the production of documents related to a set of laws from the project “Cips”. If so, where is it published? Who signed up for the tender? With what offers? Whether the most favourable offer has been made to date and under what conditions. It is a set of laws that have also been discussed at the previous session, a set of five laws relating to the protection of the personal data of BiH citizens. 2. What is the structure of the 105 million dollar debt for natural gas? How much of the debt applies to the Federation and how much to the RS? How much gas was denied in Serbia during the war? What's the role of Copeshin? Who gave consent and authority to the gas supply, and how is it imagined to buy a $105 million debt? Why is there no drop in the price of natural gas in the consumer, because the price of Russian delivery is as much as I know it fell by about 20%? Why has no transport company at the level of the BiH state been formed to date, and what has been done to prevent the privatisation of high pressure pipelines in RS? 7 The third question I failed to write, today I came up with the idea of asking that question. As far as I know, from the BiH presidency so far are on several occasions, it is a matter of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, of the initiatives addressed. That the normative route, therefore, regulates the issue of the original incomes of the BiH state, why is there a constitutional basis? It was done several times during the o.g. The Council of Ministers has not responded so far. No response from the Council of Ministers. I'm asking why? Thank you. I'm looking for answers, of course, in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1280	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the esteemed colleague Džaferović to deliver the third question in writing, and I would remind you all, that it is necessary to submit the issue in writing to the chairman before asking the question. But from next time on, we will also be more strict about these provisions. Mr. Špirić picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1281	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of asking a delegate question today, that part of the delegates' questions might not be like a political event. That's why I'm asking the question. Could one member of the Bureau and whether a member of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of a collective body, be able to answer questions asked, if it is known that these bodies make decisions or take views by consensus under their business obligations. That's one thing. And it is particularly not good for a member of the presidency, when it comes to constitutional matter, to say that something is against the constitutional name of the Presidency. So, I'm saying, a member of the Presidency can make his own vision, but he can't do it on behalf of the Presidency, because it's the responsibility of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federation to make contacts, so for the development of the economy of the RS and the Federation both inside BiH and outside BiH, and it's not good that we give it a political dimension. So it's my question. Could a member of the Bureau, could a member of the Council of Ministers be able to provide answers to parliamentary-delegation issues outside the business obligation and opportunities. The Bureau and the Council of Ministers. I didn't ask for it right away. I'll do it right now. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1282	I would ask the honourable envoy – the delegate of my colleague Špirić to give me this question in writing, so that it could be forwarded to the predsjendištvo and to the Council of Ministers, but the word came from a respected member of the presidency, Mr Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1283	If you followed me closely, I answered a specific question. On the first question, I said that the Bureau had asked for information through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its conclusion why, in what way and in which procedure visits were made to which Mr. Tokic asked the question, and when it comes to the constitutional position of members of the Bureau and the Presidency in general, believe that I know that, and thank you for your warning. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1284	Anyway, there's no replica. I would like to ask you envoy questions and your question to my colleague Špirić will be forwarded to the Bureau in writing, in a way that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers can interpret.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1285	Can you do business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1286	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1287	I beg you, therefore, my goal was not a replica. It was not my goal to challenge a member of the Bureau, a member of the Council of Ministers, and if agreed, one must agree on another. I said there could be a written response from the Bureau and the Council of Ministers. I don't think this is an answer, but one replica of a member of the Bureau, which is not an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1288	Thank you. In any case, the envoy's question will be delivered in writing and forwarded to others. The word came from a respected colleague Genjac and then from Šimić to Spahić. I would ask all envoys and delegates to turn off their cell phones during the session, as well as members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1289	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I have two questions. The first question for the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. Whether the Council of Ministers in the current composition discussed a report by BiH agent before the Hague Court of Justice on the state of the BiH case against SRJ on the basis of the Convention on the Prevention of Genocide and what the Council of Ministers is doing to ensure the necessary conditions for the work of BiH agents and the team representing the suit. I'd like a written answer. Second question, with a brief explanation. It has been noted that the chairmans of both homes have signed certain obligations, guaranteeing compliance with certain obligations expected from BiH as a condition for admission to the Council of Europe. In the Federation's central television log released one night, the chairman of the House of Peoples will sign the report without the House of Peoples. In the second journal, she was informative to sign but was not invited from the protocol. In the third journal, there was information that he would sign when he arrived. In the fourth journal, it was informing that, however, it signed on to the general enthusiasm of the general public. However, in the mass of these significant information, which I have just convinced, I, as a delegate to the House of Nations, did not receive information on what Mr. Tokić signed. In fact, Mr Šurjan's report was accepted by the Political Affairs Committee. Later the amendments were adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. These amendments have not been delivered to me as a delegate to the House of Nations, nor have we talked about it. I therefore ask the Chair of the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly, why the amendments to the Committee on 9 Legal Issues have not been submitted to the House of Peoples delegations on a report on BiH's request for membership in the Council of Europe, adopted by the Committee on Political Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Is it an obligation for these amendments... and for BiH to quote: "It strengthens co-operation between the entity armies and that after proper constitutional reform it forms a single army of BiH," the quote concluded. If this obligation has been amended. In what way is it formulated in a document signed by the chairman, and why has it been amended? Please, also a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1290	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Halid Genjac for his questions. I would remind you of the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, questions are being asked to the Council of Ministers and institutions responsible for the House of Peoples. No questions are being asked, due to the death of Jadranko, he probably did not have time to write an official legal interpretation of it. The College has agreed to this interpretation, so that the chairman of either of the delegates will not answer within this item of the agenda. But, exceptionally, since I've heard they have four journals, I'd like to introduce you to the fact that the agenda point 15 has been adopted. Information on the direct commitments to implement all the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, within which you have obtained the material, which is defined by the Political Committee of the Council of Europe, from its meeting on November 7th, where a fellow member of the Turjačanin parliamentary delegation, who is due to adopt the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on January 22nd, but will certainly be the point of the agenda, when there will be opportunities to ask and talk to each other, but I hope above all, we understand one fact, that after so many years of waiting, after so many departures in Strasbourg and so many of those situations that resembled a joke about little Mujo, finally BiH 22 January is a point in the Parliamentary assembly in which it will declare its entry into full membership. Who's still answering for the word? Here you go, Mr. Genjac. Business intervention, Šimić and Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1291	So I asked for a very clear written answer and I like to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If a colleague Tokić had come to the meetings of the club that were scheduled last, I would have asked that question there. However, since the four session of the Bosniak Club, two have not been held due to the lack of Mr. Tokić's arrival. That's one thing, and I didn't mean four journals for one night, but four journals a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1292	I'm thanking you. I would ask the secretary to provide in writing the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the interpretation of the Legal Service concerning the procedure for asking parliamentary questions. I'm glad for this explanation that it was about journals in several days. The word came from a respected colleague, Šimić, and then Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1293	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, before I move on to two questions, I must agree with Mr. Špirić that it would be good not to bring more politics into these 10 issues than is necessary. And Špirić would say that, political events. Two very straight questions, addressed to the Council of Ministers. First question to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. There's a lot of statements and a lot of different data, and that's why the question is. How many exiled and escaped Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin and others have returned to their pre-war homes so far? Data to be displayed for each people per entity and preferably for regions, or cantons. How many other requirements have been submitted, not realised, from every nation for return and of course, to earlier residences in BiH? To what areas in this year have the most refugees and exiles returned, and where are the most pronounced resistances and other difficulties in implementing the return policy of the refugees and displaced? What do the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Council of Ministers, of course, plan to do to speed up refugee returns and displaced in the coming period. That's the first question. The second question is: Of course, it's the Council of Ministers again. BiH has very favourable conditions for the development of certain livestock branches. There are considerable parallel premises in these activities. BiH has also invested significant financial resources in the reconstruction of the stock fund over the past period. Unfortunately, BiH cannot export animals and products of animal origin to any country of the world while simultaneously importing animals and products of animal origin from different parts of the world, which, of course, slows down and almost prevents further development of the economy in this area. The main reasons why BiH cannot export animals and products of animal origin are in my opinion... Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have any laws or regulations governing the protection of live animals, veterinary health services and the production and marketing of veterinary medicinal products. Secondly, BiH does not have any programme to control the most important infectious diseases of animals. Third, BiH has no national control programme, nor the necessary diagnostic and analytical laboratories for individual diagnostic and analytical procedures. Fourthly, BiH does not have the necessary veterinary sanity documentation that monitors animals and products of animal origin in international transport. I ask a written response from the Council of Ministers to questions, which it is taking to remove the above-mentioned obstacles and that BiH will eventually solve this problem in a way that other countries of the world have resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1294	The word came from a respected colleague Spahić and then from Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1295	Dear Chairman Tokić and gentlemen, I would like to ask the following three questions. 11 The first are two issues related to the BiH presidency and the second are issues relating to individual ministerial ministries in the Council of Ministers. The first question to the BiH presidency. Will the BiH Presidency also deliver the report to the BiH Parliament, in this case to the BiH House of Peoples, with the platform of course and with the results of the interstate council with the Republic of Croatia and with the SRJ, and will these two home Representatives in this case and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have the opportunity to learn about the basis of these agreements or meetings, given all the conflicts for BiH's free policy, first of all for the most prominent part of this policy relations with the first neighbours? I think that such a debate is necessary and I call on the BiH presidency members to, in co-operation with our college, provide this information and put it on the agenda. So, I'm not asking for an answer right now, but I'm asking that this be provided, as Mr Špirić suggested that the institutions provide information, that we conduct a debate about it. Second question to the presidency. Has the BiH presidency put the agenda on the agenda and when it will be determined according to a call from the BiH House of Peoples College to the BiH Presidency regarding a statement on the conduct of the public debate, which was addressed by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to the College more than half a year ago to the BiH Presidency. The response of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was obtained so that we could continue to do this work in the Commission, my colleagues know that and the House of Peoples, in order to secure a normal pathway, should receive a response from the BiH Presidency. Two questions in relation to the Council of Ministers. The first question is next. Whether we're going to get a written or oral answer from the Treasury, to a question I once asked, I have to repeat it, because I see that I haven't received an answer or a written answer, and today we're on the agenda we've accepted a point relating to the Succession Act. The question is very precise. Will the Treasury Minister give an answer, on the basis of which criteria and what kind of policy is the distribution of funds from the grant? The response was easy from the deputy minister last time, who said he would answer the question in the context of talks on the law. I asked a very precise question. I would ask that such a question be written in writing and delivered and these two previous for the Presidency to be left behind. I got a half answer, no answer. We'll see how that debate goes. The second question, relating to the activities of the national team, so-called BiH's anti-terrorism co-ordination team refers to Mr. Ivica Mišić, who is there, when the BiH Parliament will receive information as one of the important authorities, in this case legislative ones, which support the work of this coordination team to fight terrorism, information on the work done so far, given that it is one of the most prominent and most serious activities that the Council of Ministers has through this co-ordination board and with the support and support of the entire BiH Parliament. I only ask one precise answer, if it will be 15 days in a month for two, only that 12 know when we will have the opportunity to get us as Parliament's official information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1296	I'd like to ask the honourable envoy to deliver it in writing. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1297	Mr. Chairman, fellow envoys-delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Proposed Law on Sucession in front of the Council of Ministers, or in front of the Ministry of the Treasury, has asked me to ask the following question. Does the Council of Ministers support the Dayton Agreement, the final arbitration decision on Brcko, given the proposal he offered? I hope I get an answer, and the brief explanation of my question is next. The Dayton Agreement provides for a provision that the final arbitration decision for Brcko will be made within what is said there and that it is mandatory for all signatories of the Dayton Agreement. As is known, such a decision has been made in the spirit of the Dayton Agreement. As far as I know, only in principle and I was there was not accepted by the RS Assembly and this final arbitration decision was put under BiH's exclusive sovereignty by the Brcko District. Is it logical, that the Council of Ministers, which means that the government of that same state or ministry, when it determined the proposal, means how to share those funds and I have my own principled observations, which I will say when the law is on the agenda. However, I am interested, as they forget that in all, the piece of the country of BiH, over which they have the direct sovereignty of BiH authorities to have it anywhere. I'm interested in the answer yes, it would be good to discuss the conflict law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1298	Dear Ambassador, I would also like to ask you to submit this question in writing, and I remind you all, that if this written question does not exist, we cannot forward it to the Council of Ministers and I would ask you to agree that from the next session we respect the business procedure that written questions are already delivered to the College before the beginning of the implementation of the agenda point and strictly what it says here. If this arrives in due time, then the College may make an effort to provide both a response and a preparation and a request for the presence of certain ones. For his word, no one answered, but he wanted to speak on the matter, the esteemed Mr. Mišić, deputy foreign minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1299	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and I thank you for the interest of the distinguished Ibrahim Spahić in the work of the National Co-ordination Team for the fight against terrorism. If it would suit this home, we could prepare the information or report for your first next session, I suppose it would be a January session. If it pleases I can promise you and certainly prepare that report. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1300	Thank you. This was a very specific, correct reaction. I've never seen anyone come forward to ask the envoy's questions, it's exhausted both the clock and the literally time for this agenda point, so I suggest we move on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The law on administrative disputes in BiH – second reading – proposed by the Council of Ministers The first reading was held at the 10th session. The 11th session was attended by a report on the alignment – second reading in accordance with Article 91. The Rules of Procedure shall consist of a debate on the proposed amendments. There were no extended amendments, so we don't have a debate. There's no need. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Do you mind? The Law on Administrative Disputes was unanimously adopted. Ad.3. The Statistics Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – second reading The first reading was carried out at the 11th session. The second reading is in accordance with Article 91. The Rules of Procedure consist of a debate on the vote on the proposed amendments and this is the next order of members to which it relates. The first amendment we had, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, has submitted 10 amendments. Renovate, in fact, amendments that were not accepted on the Commission. Does Mr. Novaković stay with all the amendments? Is there a need for Mr. Novaković to further explain to Dom the reasons for submitting the amendment as a proposal? Here you go. I suggest you explain all the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1301	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished guests, fellow delegates, I will soon try to explain the reasons for submitting amendments to the BiH Statistics Bill. I am under this proposal that you have given up on the Commission of Amendment II, so that the practically renewed amendment does not imply Amendment II if I have given up at the Commission's session itself. When it comes to Amendment I, I suggested it, given the fact that, and otherwise, amendments are based on the fact that part of this issue is regulated by laws at entity level and that it is therefore necessary to take account of the adoption of the BiH Statistics Law. In this regard, it is also found, in that sense, that Amendment I, Amendment III, I propose that Articles 8 and 9 be deleted. Namely, here questions are regulated by these members. In my view, they should not be regulated by law, but should be regulated by a special decision on the establishment of a statistical agency. In fact, it is unnecessary to explain here in detail the duties of the director of the agency and his deputy. Unless Members 8 and 9 are deleted. I suggested an alternative. To add to the position of the 2nd director of the agency in co-operation with the deputy. Namely, there are 14 vague roles left here by the deputy director of the agency, except in one sentence, where it is said to be resolved and appointed in accordance with the law. I believe that the deputy agency must, if the role of director is already defined in detail, then that the role of deputies must also have its significance. I therefore proposed that the director and the deputy director be from different entities and that together, in cooperation with the deputy, organise the security of the performance of these tasks in accordance with the law. I also considered the 6th position, and I believe that the director of the agency and his deputy deputy is appointed by the Council of Ministers to agree on a proposal by the Minister and two deputies. So, I suggest adding the word “adjusted proposal” as an alternative. As far as I'm concerned, I especially want to explain Amendment number XX, which is an amendment that defines the questions of the former SR Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, it is necessary, since the property is visible, to resolve the issue. My proposal is to resolve the issue within six months, in a way that the Council of Ministers, in co-operation with entity institutions, determines and resolves the issue of documentation and property of the former republican SR Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is an extremely important question, and I would like to ask this House to declare itself, especially according to this amendment, because it seems to me that this amendment can in principle define my position under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1302	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the proposed amendments. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1303	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished guests and members of the Council of Ministers, I will only, of course, take your attention, with my personal feeling that we have come into a situation where today this debate should result in the adoption of the BiH Statistics Act. I don't think it should be particularly stressed that there's a huge need for us to get to that law. In early September of '99. Eurostart invited all members of the Management Board of the Statistics Agency and the directors of the entity statistical institutions to visit the institution in Luxembourg. The organised meetings were also attended by an international co-ordinator on the agency and by an OHR representative. During this visit, it is clearly stressed the obligation to pass laws, which determines the relationship in the field of statistics in line with European standards. It is too long to reach an agreement on our own and make a proposal, and if we need help, Eurostat has expressed its readiness to help come up with a legislative proposal. Of course, as this usually happens in BiH even after more attempts, we have not been able to reach an initial threshold that would satisfy all sides in the negotiations, and then Eurostat's legal expert offered a legal framework, which has been the subject of many discussions. In line with this, all methodologies and classifications with international standards are subject to harmonisation. Statistics agencies have addressed many institutions, which are looking for data for BiH. Among them are the first 15 lines of the UN – Statistics, Eurostat, IMF, World Bank, UNESCO World Trade Organisation and many others. In publications of these important institutions, BiH is not presented, or is presented with very little data, which clearly indicates the need for a law on BiH statistics. The importance of data for BiH is obvious. As far as making data for the level of BiH to the name of international standards is concerned, it is mandatory if we want to step up with the world. This certainly does not mean from a methodological point of view simple data collection, which provides institutions for entity statistics. It's only possible in case you get a number of states, e.g. The residents, the students and the like. For all other serious research and deeper analysis of the production of relevant indicators or weights, e.g. Even individual data is needed. Here, of course, is a very important data protection. The proposed text of the law sets out the obligation to provide data for BiH level. Therefore, in time it respects the independence of entity institutions in their obligation to provide the need for the needs of entity institutions and other users. This text also provides for data protection, i.e. the supply of data without identification, as referred to in the name, home number, address and the like. The law meets the minimum requirements, set before BiH statistics, regardless of the decision the statistical institution should provide for BiH's expenditure. In this case, the BiH Statistics Agency is obliged to respect the same principles and standards. This law, what can be considered to be a bit of a lack of the law, is not intended for property and documents from the former Republic Statistics Office of BiH. I believe that this issue, of course, needs to be discussed within this debate on the law and made a decision. The Republic Bureau of Statistics, or the Institute of Statistics of the Republic of RS, certainly deserves to discuss this property with an adequate place and for these reasons, I think it is very important in a series of these amendments to Mr Novaković, Amendment XX, which says: where point 3 is added in Article 29. Which reads: By entering into force of this law, the issue of documentation, property and the status of the former Republic Institute will be resolved within six months. Of course, it is assigned to the Council of Ministers. It seems to me that this amendment would resolve this dilemma of mine, concerning this law, and I ask you, please, all delegates in order to reach the BiH statistical law to support this amendment, so that my approach to the vote is positive against the full legal text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1304	I thank my esteemed colleague Špirić. Since Amendment XX has defined the additional obligations of the Council of Ministers, does any of the Council of Ministers wish to give an opinion on the amendment of XX to the Honorable Mr Novaković? No, I don't. The conditions have been met for us to approach the plea for those amendments. Amendment and Momčilo Novaković Law on Statistics of BiH Who is for? Who's against it? Four for and ten against, I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. 16 amandman ii was cancelled by the Proposer. Amendment III kao's in? - 4 Who's against it? – 4 for – 8 against – the amendment did not receive the required majority. Who's being held back? - 2. Amendment IV Momčilo Novaković Statistics Act Who is for? - 3 Who's against it? - 10 Any hold-ups? – 1 The amendment did not receive the required majority. Amendment V Who's in favour? - 4 Who's against it? – 10 The amendment did not receive the required majority. Are there any abstentions? There's one. Amendment VI Who's in favour? - 3 Who's against it? - Ten abstentions? - 2 amandman vi Who's in favour? - 3 Who's against it? - Ten abstentions? - 2 amandman vi Who's in favour? - Who's against it? Abstained? 10 v - abstentions 1. Amendment IX Mr. Momčilo Novaković to the statistical law. Who's in? - 3 Who's against it? - 10 Who's abstentioned? – 2 Amendment X Mr. Novaković to the Statistics Act Who's For? - 5 Who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? – 5 What does the Rules of Procedure foresee? He doesn't have an entity majority. Two minutes off, we'll get along at the table. 17 Very quickly completed. We can approach in accordance with the business procedures, I can inform you that this amendment has not been agreed, Mr. Šimić and Mr. I have been against agreeing to this amendment, Špirić was in favour of harmonising this amendment. We're accessing a plea this time who's against it. From the Federation who is against this amendment? - I'm konstatovati the amendment didn't get an entity majority and it didn't pass as such. The conditions have been met for us to approach the statement of the entire text of the Statistics Act. Please, who's in favour of the statistical law? Who's in? - 10 Who's against it? - 4 1 is restrained. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in the course of three days, the harmonisation of the text of the law will be implemented by the College. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.4. The Law on concessions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading The first reading was carried out at the 11th session, second reading in accordance with Article 91. The Rules of Procedure shall consist of discussions and voting on the proposed amendments and the following order of members to which they relate. In accordance with Article 89.Stream 2., Momčilo Novaković has tabled 13 amendments, and delegate Nikola Špirić, 14 amendments, who want to defend at the House session again, after they have not been accepted by the competent commission. Please, is there any possibility that these amendments can be united in some form between the two promoters? It's too late now. I suggest that Momčilo Novaković, if he feels the need to explain the proposal for the text of his amendments to the concession law, if that is what he wants, of course. Dear counterpart Momčilo Novaković does not have, he believes there is no need to plead. Mr. Nikola Špirić, would you like to propose 14 amendments? He does. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1305	I will, of course, just one brief note. If you have read the amendments carefully, since I am reporting as an amendment to most of these legislative projects, what I want to convince you as my fellow delegates that the amendments are written with the aim of passing and improving the text of the law. They are not written to derivate BiH's powers or to build some parallelism in terms of entities, which could sometimes be checked in some political discussions. It is not good that out of the 10 amendments none of them get support, as it is not good for 16 plus 10 - 26 not to get any support.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1306	I would ask you to stick to the subject, and the theme is to explain your 14 amendments. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1307	I just want to say that the way my colleagues deal with the amendments defined by Nikola Špirić, by reading the laws, will define my relationship with the whole of the legislative project and it has been a practice so far and proved to be bad for BiH. Here, let's say, Amendment V, where I propose that the Commission's headquarters be in Banja Luka, which seems to me to me, has been forever implementing the Council of Ministers' obligation to go before this home and to decentralise the institutions that are accompanying BiH institutions. So, to test the preparedness of this home, is he ready to support this amendment? I'm staying with all my amendments, and your commitment to these amendments will, therefore, be a signal to me, will I support the law without incorporated amendments. Thank you very much. There's no need to bother you with reading the amendments individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1308	Is anyone answering for a word? Whether the envoys, delegates can track, possibly... is done one. Is there any need to read the amendments? It'd be a long time. Because of the easier monitoring of the text of the law, whether or not the proposings are agreed that we are going according to the members of the law so they don't. Then we'll go with the amendment first and Nikola Špirić. Amendment I to Article 1. Is it possible to access a statement on this amendment? Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who is against this amendment? - I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment ii Momčilo Novaković, same applies to Article 1(2). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who is against this amendment? I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. Amendment ii Nikola Špirić refers to Article 3. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who is for Amendment II of Nikola Spiric referring to Article 3. - Five's for it. Who's against it? - Ten against. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. Amendment IV of Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 3(1). Who's in? - 4 for who's against it? - Eight against. Who's being held back? - 1 I find that the amendment did not receive the required majority. 19 Amendment of Momčilo Novaković relating to Article 3rd paragraph 1 and Article 3nd and Article 3rd and Article 3. Article 3 Who is in favour of this amendment relating to three members? - 4 for who's against it? - Ten against who's restrained? - 1 I find that this amendment has not received the required majority either. Amendment IV to Nikola Špirić in Article 4. amandman IV gospodin Špirić, although the debate has passed, please explain once again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1309	I apologize, I just want to stress the need for Amadman IV to work simply for the public, I ask that, in Article 1(1), paragraph 1 at the end of the sentence be replaced by the decimal point and add the text "and confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH". I'll read that point one. The BiH Council of Ministers, in the further text of the Council of Ministers, makes a decision on the type and subject of concession, as well as the scope of the concession, to be awarded. So my proposal was to have jurisdiction and maximum presence here, related to the concession of the Parliamentary Assembly of both of its homes. I am very interested if we do not support this amendment, why does the BiH Parliamentary Assembly think that it is necessary to disenfranchise itself in such important matters. This is my proposal, only to install the role of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1310	Thank you. So here is the amendment, related to the problem that Honored counterpart Špirić pointed out, with the concession not being able to be even with international agreements, but I allow every interpretation. Here you go, it's a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1311	Just one question before we make a statement on this amendment. Do you think, possibly, that your, that your amendment, in any way, is going to conflict with, I'd say, in that article down on the third part of that. It's just an explanation to make it easier to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1312	Thank you. I'd like you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, all of you. When the amendments are discussed, then you have the opportunity to ask, discuss, ask for information. When it's a vote, it's just a vote. We're in the voting phase. Amendment IV Nikola Špirić refers to Article 4. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 11 for Who is against this amendment? - 2 Who's abstentioned? – 2 20 I find this amendment to Nikola Špirić has received the necessary majority and becomes an integral part of the text of the law on which we will plead at the end of the implementation of this agenda. Amendment III of Momčilo Novaković, referred to Article 4(1), Article 4(2) and Article 4(3). Who is for the adoption of this amendment? It applies only to item 1. I'd like to ask if it's the same Mr. Novaković, do you withdraw the amendment? That's right, that's the same thing. So, Mr. Novaković, his amendment after the adoption of Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendment, reformed in such a way that Amendment III of Mr. Novaković refers only to Article 4(2) and Article 4(3). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 2 Who's against it? - 8 v. I Konstatuj that this amendment has not passed with 2 abstentions, i.e. 3 abstentions - 4 abstentions. Please boldly raise your ballot, even when it is contained clearly. Amendment V Mr. Nikola Špirić to the concession law Who is for the above-mentioned amendment? - 6 Who is against this amendment? - 3 Are there any abstentions? Let's see by entities, actually. Who's in favour of the RS? - 5 Who's for the Federation? - He didn't get the necessary majority in the match. Who's against the Federation? - Who's in favor of the Federation? Who's the pressure? He didn't get the entity majority. I'd only ask for a brief consent. So, the amendment passed after the collapsing of the College. The college agreed to accept the amendment of Nikola Špirić, and he is an integral part of the text he will declare at the end of this session. Amendment IV Momčilo Novaković in Article 5.St. 1 in Article 5.St. 2. in Article 5.St. 3. Who's in favour of this amendment? Article 3 He's giving up. Therefore, Amendment IV reads in Article 5. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? – 1 9 versus – 1 abstention. I find this amendment has not passed. Amendment VI Nikola Špirić refers to Article 6. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 4 for who's against it? - 10 I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. 21 Amendment v Momčilo Novaković, which refers to Article 6(2). That is to say, Article 6.i to Article 6(2). Who's in favor of this amendment? - Three for who's against it? - 9 versus Who's abstentioned? – 3 The amendment did not receive the required majority. Amendment vi Nikola Špirić refers to Article 7. Who's in favor of this amendment? I assume you too, fellow Špirić, are in favor of the amendment. 3. Who's against this amendment? - 10 against Who is abstention? - 2 abstentions I konstatuj that the amendment did not receive the required majority. Amendment VI Momčilo Novaković refers to Article 7(1) and Article 7(2). The concession law. Proposer of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favor of this amendment? - 4 is for who's against? - Abstained? – 1 Thanks to the amendment did not get the required majority. Amendment vi Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 8(1). Who's in favor of this amendment? - Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? Six for, three against and six abstentions. We're moving on to the entity majority. Who is for this amendment from Republika Srpska? - 5 Who's for the Federation? - 1 Who's against it? There's no entity majority. We're moving on to alignment. The minute will be the date of the amendment. It's about consent. In the College, I'd like to make a statement on the amendment. Who's against the Federation? Against the amendment. – 5 The amandman did not receive the necessary entity majority. We move to Amendment vi of Momčilo Novaković concerning the Law on concessions, in particular Article 8(1). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 4 for Who is against this amendment? - Ten against who's restrained? - 1 I find that the amendment did not receive the required majority. 22 Amendment IX Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 9(3). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 4 Who is against this amendment? - 7 versus Who's abstentioned? - Okay. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment X Nikola Spiric, applies to Article 10. Who's in favor of this amendment? I'd like to ask for more attention and a faster vote. I mean voting in a more clear way. - Four for who's against it? Hold these sheets a little longer so it can count. - 10 Who's abstentioned? – 1 No amendment 10 Nikola Špirić has passed. Amendment vi Momčilo Novaković, referred to Article 10(1). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 2 Who is against this amendment? - 7 versus Who's abstentioned? – 3 The amendment did not receive the required majority. Amendment XI Nikola Spiric. Who's up for the amendment? - Three for who's against it? - Ten against who's restrained? - 2 I find that Amendment XI Nikola Špirić did not pass. Amendment XII Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 12. Who's in? - 4 Who's against it? - 7 Who's abstentioned? - 4 I find the amendment not accepted. Amendment of IX Momčilo Novaković, referred to Article 12(4). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 3 Who's against it? - 10 5 for, 10 against. I find this amendment has not passed. The next amendment is IX Momčilo Novaković. Amendment XIII Nikola Spiric. Who's in favor of this amendment? It refers to Article 17. - Who's against this amendment? Please vote. Six for five against. Who's being held back? – 4 23 Amendment X Momčilo Novaković – withdraws. Amendment XI Momčilo Novaković Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'm guessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment XII Momčilo Novaković, referred to Article 24. Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? - 7 versus Who's abstentioned? - Two abstentions. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. Amendment XIII to Momčilo Novaković, referred to Article 26. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 10 is against, 2 abstentions I konstatuj that this amendment has not received the necessary majority. Amendment XIV Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 31(2). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 5 Who is against this amendment? Please vote. Who's being held back? - 9 I find that this amendment has not passed either. So, - Amendment IV Nikola Špirić, which refers to Article 4, received the required majority; - Amendment V Nikola Špirić, which refers to Article 5(3), received the required majority, as well as Amendment XIII Nikola Spiric, which refers to Article 17, received the required majority and they are an integral part of the text of the law on which we are now pleading. The conditions have been met that highly respected House and distinguished fellow envoys approach the vote of the Law on concessions, however, there is no saying, only a pause can be requested. Fifteen minutes off. I think we can continue to approach the plea of, I don't understand, watch out, debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1313	Dear Chairman, I've asked for a break on behalf of the club for prior to the plea. So since the debate is over and I want to inform this tall House that delegates from the Serb people will vote in favour of the Law on 24 concessions from Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that certain amendments by Mr Špirić, or jointly with mine, have been accepted, and this is how the will to discuss our amendments in an adequate way is shown. Of course, we don't understand why he wasn't accepted, just a little please, which is why no amendment has been accepted to appoint foreign citizens either in the Republic or in the institution...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1314	Your Honor, I'm warning you don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. And I repeat all of you as members of the House that Article 91 of Position 4 stands – after the vote on all the proposed amendments will be voted immediately on the bill on its final text. I would ask you to return to your seat. Thank you. I assumed that you used your break to consult, but you will plead your political position at the time of your statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1315	I would beg the chairman not to interrupt me, to finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1316	I'm warning you there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1317	A matter of culture and relation to delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1318	I'd just like to explain what's going on. In the course of the plea, immediately after the notification of amendments to Article 91. The Rules of Procedure that we should all adhere to implies in paragraph 4 that it immediately approaches the statement of the whole law. And no discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1319	I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1320	I'd ask. Clubs. Here you go. What's the question? Break. I'm taking an hour off. Realisation of the agenda, specifically the Law on concessions. The debate was exhausted, several breaks were requested to consult me on how to vote. I suggest we approach the vote. 25 I ask all envoys to take their seats. Mr. Spahić will be waiting for you. Who's in favour of adopting the concession law? Oh, here you go, I suppose, about the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1321	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen delegates. On the basis of Article 4. 3.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution and Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina delegates to the House of Peoples of the Bosniak Peoples submit the following statement. The text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concessions law after the House College agreed at a meeting held on 20.12.2001 to accept amendment V of delegate Nikola Špirić to Article 5(3) of the law is destructive by the vital and national interest of the Bosniak people. We request the Chairman of the House to act in accordance with Article 134(3) and (4). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. There's an explanation here, I don't know if you need it, you'll judge it, or I'll read it. There's a signature, so you're the judge.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1322	Thank you. The College was in session since it had the announcement of delegates and consulted legal services, I will be specific to all the lawyers in, who work at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have proposed to the College an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure which is very clear in their Article 134 and he is talking about the following. During a debate on some issue of the adopted agenda, 3 Bosniak delegates, 3 Croatian telegates or 3 Serbian delegates may say the issue is considered destructive by vital interests in their people. The statement shall be submitted in writing, no later than the conclusion of the debate on the matter. Since the debate on amendments and the law has been concluded on behalf of the College that this initiative of yours from the aspect of the Rules of Procedure has been delayed and I recommend that the delegates use other political options, and the College has, among other things, defined itself for this very clear strict respect of the Rules of Procedure with a desire not to use this provision on a whole series of other provisions. I suggest we approach the vote. Who's in favour of the concession law? Business intervention. Here you go. You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1323	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have an intervention that is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the House of People's Rules of Procedure concerning procedures concerning vital national interest. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is older than the Rules of Procedure and the legal act of the most legal force in Article 4, 3e. It is prescribed that the proposed underline, the proposed decision of the Parliamentary Assembly may be declared destructive by the vital interest of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, etc. So the proposed decision of the Parliamentary Assembly on the moment when you, Mr. Chairman and other members of the College agreed to accept the 26 amendments of Mr. Špirić to Article 5(3). The law on concessions at that point became an integral part of the text of the law, and that is the moment he proposed a decision. Therefore, I ask you to respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, the Rules of Procedure of the People's House and to put the request that the president of the Bosniak Club put in the procedure, so put it in a procedure prescribed by Articles 134 and 4. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1324	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the College is authorised to interpret the Rules of Procedure and to interpret the Constitution in the functioning of this House and I would interrupt this debate on business procedures. He would ask us to make a statement to the Rules of Procedure on the text of the law and on any further. We can't give any more business intervention. We're on our way. Here's three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1325	I warn the chairman and, of course, the College that, before any statement on any matter can be raised, a question of vital interest can be raised. Of course, this harsh violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure will not be tolerated, and if we approach it, we will leave the session while this vote takes place, and of course we will seek the achievement of the respect of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1326	Thank you. Finally, I think we've come to terms with a plea of the bill. Who's in favour of the text of the concession law? Please, yes. - 10 Who's against it? Who's being held back? I also find that the majority of the entity's votes, hence the unanimous abstention, are not counting on the voting process, the concession law passed. We're approaching the next item of the Ad agenda. 5. Law on industrial property Proposer of the Council of Ministers. Second reading. The first reading was conducted at the 11th session, the second reading is in accordance with Article 91. The Rules of Procedure shall consist of discussions and voting on the proposed amendments, and this shall be the next order of the members concerned. In accordance with Article 89, position 2 of delegate Nikola Špirić has tabled 4 amendments he wants to defend at the House of Peoples session after they are not accepted by the competent commission. Does the amendment's proposed colleague, Mr Nikola Špirić, want to address the House by explaining his amendments? 27
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1327	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, I have been defined on 4 amendments to the draft law on industrial property of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also think it's important that we get to this legal project at today's session. I was in a break so as to contact the representatives of the Council of Ministers as well as to simply see if it was possible in terms of the passing of this law to make adjustments to the agreement. Of course, I am not a man who is always hard or hard to stand behind certain amendments and any rational explanation that is on the line of agreement I am willing to accept and in that sense I think that the explanation, though oral explanation that I received from the Council of Ministers' representative I will try to paraphrasise and they are there. And of course they can help us get to this legislative project, and those amendments that I particularly insist on are Amendment II and Amendment III of this law, because they are a question, would say legal and constitutional matter. And as for Amendment I and consistent with Amendment IV, I think it can stand the text in the original legal proposal that we got, but here I have no need to give up the amendment. So let's be clear about the amendments by calling only for your attention, so pay particular attention to Amendment II and Amendment III, and in that sense I would like to invite members of the Council of Ministers if they can help us with this law, but with a view to really reaching a legal solution. No, so my goal is that today's debate results in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1328	Thank you. Here you go. There is a representative of the Council of Ministers who, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, will give a position and opinion on these two amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1329	I thank the chairman, I welcome the delegates, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, for just one review. The formulation proposed by the MP, or member of the House of People's College, of Mr Špirić, in Amendment II, provides that, in order to conduct the infringement proceedings laid down by this law, the competent authority of the Member States shall be
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1330	Excuse me. I'm sorry. Just a warning to Jusufović. The moment you leave this house, it stops working, because we have to have a quorum. Then I have to take a break. Break three minutes. I'm asking you if you can do a little bit. I'm really sorry. Here you go. I would ask you to engage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1331	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I understand fellow Špirić in this formulation, but the only thing we remain questionable about is that the conduct of the infringement proceedings is determined by the state law by an entity court. It is true that we do not have a court, an appropriate court at BiH level, but since it is expected that 28 judicial reforms and the next legislation will lead to that court, which will automatically lead to a change of this law, namely similar laws, not only on industrial property. We can temporarily accept this even though it remains questionable that for the state law to enforce the jurisdiction of the entity's court. Given that Amendment III is related to Amendment II, I think that fellow Špirić should not be explained, that is to say, this amendment III. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1332	Okay. You heard the Minister who, in a certain way, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, says that at this transitional stage when not all judicial institutions are built, these amendments from the point of view of the Council of Ministers II and III can be acceptable. Is anyone else answering for a word from the envoys' delegates? I'm closing the debate. Does the envoy stay on Amendment I? Who's for the amendment and Nikola Špirić? - 4 Who's against it? Please vote. Can you hold just 10 seconds? How much against it? - Seven against who's restrained? - 1 5 for, 7 against, 1 abstention. I'm not sure the amendment has passed. amandman II. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? Please approach the vote. - 10 Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that the amendment has received the necessary majority both entity and total. Amendment III Who's in? Amendment III is related to Amendment II. Who's against it? - 1 versus, 10 for the suzdržan? - 3 I konstatovati that Amendment III has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law on which we will declare ourselves. Amendment IV kao's in favour? - Five for who's against it? - 8 I find that the adman did not get the required majority. We've exhausted the vote on amendments. 29 There have been conditions for us to approach the vote on a full industrial property law with 2 amendments in place by the House. Who's in favor of that law? Who's against it? Who's being held back? 1 I find that the Industrial Property Act was adopted by the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. Six. Demining law in Bosnia and Herzegovina Second reading. Proposer of the Council of Ministers. First reading done at the 11th session. Delegate Nikola Špirić also submitted 13 amendments after the commission phase. Does Mr. Nikola Špirić want to explain his amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1333	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests. I, when the debate was in the first reading on the Demining Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, said, actually voiced a strong need to define a legal demining project in Bosnia and Herzegovina for several reasons. One is the basic reason why changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina are a really big problem, which every day, unfortunately, carries human lives across the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think this matter should be regulated by a legal project. Another reason was that there were plenty of ugly stories for the demining process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which unfortunately served much more for money laundering and little less for mine removal. There were various polemics within Bosnia and Herzegovina. There were various polemics both outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. There were various polemics both outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. There were contrasting opinions, and it seems to me that at one point the Council of Ministers in the past meeting simply replaced the members of the Demining Commission and chose new ones to simply calm the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that this topic would not be discussed further. Unfortunately, even to this day in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have not received a report on how much money was spent, how many mines were removed, how much funds were collected, from where they were used to solve such urgent problems. And in that sense, I was pleased to see that there would be a legal definition of this issue, but when I read the legal project, I have the impression that the legislator is not taking overall account of the weaknesses that have occurred only the legal framework so that everything that was going on could only take place within the legal project. In that sense, I wanted to make one more rational structure for demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Chapter 2 of the amendment I, so in Chapter 2 of the demining structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a body at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in point 1 of the "Demination Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina" I suggest that 30 be replaced by the words "The Mine Removal Centre in Bosnia and Herzegovina" and that members of the 4th, 6th and 7th are deleted from the draft of this law. Here's why. I think that in the structure of the people who paid body parts, everything that is related to the process of minement and the process of demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be quite professionally and at one representative level to say to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, to provide funds, to deal simply with different activities, within that demining centre to form different sectors and finally submit a report to Parliament and to the Council of Ministers for what they did during the year. I'm afraid that the Demining Commission is a glamorous name for something that is going to walk around the world, and those from the entity, the demining centres will have to ask for more of them to agree on how much funds they will get to demining here or there, which will say that this kind of organisation can serve again more and more than an intense mine removal process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no need to draw your attention therefore to the other amendments which are closely related to this, so I would say my clear dissent in the systematic approach to making this law. If the Demining Commission remains, I have said with all the consequences of the existence of such a commission in the present period I will plead against this law and I must publicly tell the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina that I regret that the legislator has offered such a law instead of supporting the establishment of a demining centre as an operational body. We don't need a center where we're going to form people at the Council of Ministers to talk about how dangerous mines are, that others are walking to look for donor funds, that the third is sitting at the Council of Ministers to explain again that it's not good. I think the process should be simplified in that sense and the provision of funds, adequate control of the use of funds, and that the process must result in a large one, he would tell complexes in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will be cleared of mines and less and less pose a danger to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not convinced by the legislator that this legal project is on the way. If the erasure is accepted, then only these demining committees will I give my vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1334	Do any of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Council of Ministers, intend to comment, present their opinion? These are amendments that were on the Commission, so your representative had to hear them on the Commission, but if you consider them appropriate we can take a break to get familiar with the amendments in view of the position. Okay. That's right, thank you to dear fellow Spahić. I think the conditions have been met for us to approach Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendment. I would ask you for your concentration and attention that this vote be conducted as quickly as possible. Amendment and Nikola Špirić to the Demining Act in BiH. Who's in? Who's against it? I find the amendment has not passed. 31 Amendment II Who's in? Who's against it? I figure the amendment didn't go through, 5 in, 8 against. Amendment III kao's in? - 5 Who's against it? - The 8th Amendment didn't go through. Amendment IV Who's in favour? Who's against it? - The 8th Amendment didn't go through. Amandma v Who's in favour? Who's against Amendment V? - Eight abstentions? - 1 I find Amendment V has passed. Amendment VI Who's in?- 5 Who's against? I find that Amendment VI has not passed. Amendment vi kao's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? - The 8th Amendment didn't go through. Amendment VIII Who's in favour? Who's against it? amandman vi didn't go through, 5 was in, 8 is against. Amendment IX Who's in? Who's against it? Amendment X Who's in? - 5 Who's against it? Amendment XI Who's in favour? This time it's 5 for who's against it? 32 Amendment XII Who's in favour? This time it's 5. Who's against it? Amendment XIII Who's in favour? - 5 Who's against it? I find that the conditions for a declaration on amendments to the whole law have been met, after none of the proposed amendments previously rejected by the Commission have been accepted. Who's for the text of the Demining Act. Council of Ministers' Proposer, second reading. Who's in? I'd like to ask if you'd like to pick up the appropriate ones. - Nine for who's against it? Who's being held back? - 3 We're accessing the entity majority. Who's in favor of the Federation? – 8 There is an entity majority who is for Republika Srpska? – 1 I find that we do not have an entity majority, since also fellow Šimić is not there. I suggest we get the alignment done within three days as the Rules of Procedure has ordered. At the next session, we'd be informed about it. Ad. Seven. A consumer protection law in Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed by the Council of Ministers. Second reading. The first reading was conducted at the 11th session, the second reading is in accordance with Article 91. Rules of Procedure. It consists of a debate and a vote on the proposed amendments. In accordance with Article 89(1), which implies that Momčilo Novaković and Nikola Špirić, after their amendments have not been accepted by the Commission, are investing their amendments to the House, this High and Appreciable House. I suggest that Momčilo Novaković, if he needs to explain his amendments and then Nikola Špirić. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1335	Dear fellow delegates, Amendment I refers, i.e. to members 48 to 110, since that substance legally belongs to the bond law. I suggest that these members be deleted. Of course there is a possibility as I have here and said in an alternative to applying these provisions, but with the text that is given here. Thus, until the entry into force of the Act on Liabilities of Entity 33 which regulate, or matter, will apply. Therefore, until the entry into force, the Entity Liabilities Act will apply. Amendment II refers to the amendment adopted which has changed the text, and this is about Mr Spahić's amendment. Likewise, Amendment III and Amendment IV concerning the change of the name of the institutions, i.e. the Alliance for the Protection of Consumers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Union of the Association for the Protection of Consumers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to appeal here to other delegates to consider that associations are formed on a voluntary basis when it is quite logical that there can be more consumer associations and that it is quite logical that they can then join the Union of Consumers. This is why it is important for this text to remain, because I assume that this has been taken into account by the Proposer when proposing the original text of the law. The same applies, therefore, to Amendment III and Amendment IV.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1336	Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go. First, he will explain the amendments to the proposer, and then we will ask the Council of Ministers if they have any opinion on it, and then the esteemed envoys will. Here you go, sir, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1337	Ladies and gentlemen, I think you've managed to level these amendments with the text of the law. Amendment I of the Law on the Protection of Consumers in Bosnia and Herzegovina refers to Article 117 point 1.b., I propose to amend and read "the competent institution for veterinary and...sanitary protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina" and to delete point c., g., h., x. and j. Explanation. At the level of inter-entity working groups, agreement has been reached that those institutions are not necessary in the Consumer Protection Council, i.e. they do not enter into a circle of institutions that provide the most efficient consumer protection mechanisms. So, after we've held the consultation, and in that sense, I think, and I'm going to list which institutions they are. These are the Statistical Agency, the Institute of Standards, Measurement, then the UKZP of Republika Srpska, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Consumers' Association of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So it should be just a competent veterinary institution and a fit sanitary protection for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the first amendment. I thought it was agreed to be in the proposed text of the law, but I can see it isn't. You also have Amendment II in Article 122, point 2. should read 'at least two associations (the organisation of consumers from different entities) operating on the entire territory of their entities can form an association of associations (a consumer organisation) of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's quite logical that at least two, and most x. So they organize one association at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's a perfectly logical amendment. And Amendment III in Article 139(3) adds a new position 4 which reads as 'Articles 45 to 110 provisions relating to contractual or contractual relations 34 will apply until the date of entry into force of the law on the liability relations of entities that regulate, or matter'. Explanation. That substance must be covered by entity regulations, i.e. while this area must be regulated in harmonised entity laws on bond relations, as set out in point 5. (or so on) Brussels Declarations of the Peace Implementation Council on 23 May 2000 Annex to the necessary economic measures. So, entity regulations, given that this substance is in the entity's jurisdiction in accordance with the BiH Constitution. So this is just one logic related to Amendment III. I hope these amendments improve the essence of the legal project to a good degree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1338	Thank you. Would the Council of Ministers possibly want to say anything about this law and amendment? Here you go, Your Honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1339	I thank the chairman. I'll take a quick look at the amendments I have ahead of me. Amendment I, in Article 17, 117, pardon, competent institution for veterinary and fitness sanitary protection, remains and the rest is deleted. I'm asking you, Article 117, I don't think you should accept that amendment. I remind you that here it is said that the Council of Ministers appoints members of the Consumer Protection Council and that the institutions are listed so that the full problem of consumer protection can be implemented in an adequate way that is regulated by this law. I think fellow Špirić is just a little more focused that you'll agree. Amendment II stands here in Article 122, point 2. should read – at least two associations as consumers from different entities operating on the entire territory of their entities may establish an association of consumer associations. Article 122 in the original text regulates the activity of consumer protection by consumer associations, which the register of the association under the law acquires the property of a legal person, etc. I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Otherwise termologically related to this amendment, the Alliance of the Association of Consumers of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be more of a association of consumers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So a little termologically if you think about it and this proposal makes a complete correction. Of course, there may be more consumer associations, but the association of consumers of Bosnia and Herzegovina... It practically comes down to the same thing. And according to this proposal, in Article 139 of the provisions governing bond relations in entities. I think what this amendment wants to achieve is actually regulated in the original text itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1340	Okay. Thank you. I think the conditions have been met to approach the plea. The minister said that Amendment I and Amendment ii Nikola Špirić were not smart to accept from the stand, and that this third one had already been repeated. I apologize for the interpretation, i.e. this third amendment is something already provided by 35 existing text of the law. That's what the minister said. I apologize for the interpretation that may have been far less politically justified than the Minister said. But conditions have arisen, unless there is further discussion to conclude the debate and to approach the plea. We have five amendments. We'll go in order that's listed in this as the law runs. Which means we first vote on Amendment V of Momčilo Novaković, which refers to Article 18. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against this amendment? - 5 for, 8 against the amandman i Momčilo Novaković, referring to Article 48. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? - 2 abstentions, 8 against, 3 for the Amendment is not accepted. Amendment ii Momčilo Novaković related to Article 115. That's where we should plead when we get to Article 139. But I remind you, we are doing business, although we will plead upon it by respecting your wishes. There's no possibility of you giving an alternative amadnment, no business opportunities. Amendment ii Momčilo Novaković, which refers to Article 115. Who's in? - Three for who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? Amendment III Momčilo Novaković to Article 116 - 3 Who's against it? Abstained? – 2 Amendment IV of the Momčilo Novaković to Article 117. I'd beg the conclusion of the College, and we can now go to Dom. This can be formulated as a new amendment, but I repeat the procedure of business in my opinion, there is no possibility of you giving the amendment to an alternative, but here's to be clear about this conclusion. 36 Is the House agreeing to this, too, on the alternatives of Mr. Novaković's amendments? Who's in? Who's against it? – 8 The conclusion of the House has defined itself, respecting the Rules of Procedure, to beg you to know that it is impossible. You can formulate two amendments, but you can't make an alternative. amandman IV to Article 117 Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? - 3 I find that Amendment IV of the Momčilo Novaković has not been accepted. The amendment and Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 117. Who's in? - Who's against it? - Eight against who's restrained? – 1 abstention has not received the required majority of amendments. Amendment II refers to Article 122. Who's in? Who's against it? - 4 Please be uzdržati when it is? - Three, three, abstention, seven, four against. The entity majority. So we vote on Amendment ii Nikola Špirić to Article 122. Who's from the Federation for? - 3 Who's against the Federation? - 4 Who Is Restraint? He didn't get the necessary majority. I'd just like to ask you a second. Please, given that there is a different interpretation between the Rules of Procedure, between the secretary and me as chairman, and by the way, several members of the House, I am giving a five-minute recess to consult. Come here, secretary. Let's keep working, please. If you insist on five minutes, yes, but we've solved the dilemmas. We've got two minutes left. After a brief consultation in the College, it was concluded that what it said in the Rules of Procedure that when voting, it was necessary that most of those who voted should contain at least 1/3 of those present from the entity. Present. Since 8 people are present from the Federation, and 3 voted in favour, that is a sufficient third to ensure that this amendment is adopted. We are moving on to Amendment III. Business intervention, please. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1341	I'm warning you it's not a proper interpretation. Indeed, the Constitution also sees a third of the selected number of MPs from both entities in the Rules of Procedure. And it's a practice that is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1342	I'd ask the secretary to read the Constitution to these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1343	Section 6 refers to decision-making. Decisions in the House shall be made by majority of the votes of the envoys present and voting. The envoys will make the most of their efforts to include at least 1/3 of the envoys from the territory of each entity, unless otherwise provided for by the BiH Constitution and the rules of procedure. And since the amendment got the total majority, 1/3 was for the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1344	I bear very standing wits and these elegant jumps by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, however, I do believe that the College, the chairman, at least the Secretary-General can learn. So a third of the delegates in entity territory must vote for something, and most of those present in terms of the quantitative majority, and in terms of the qualitative majority of the thirds of the delegates in the territory of each entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1345	I thank you very much. I wanted to give Mr. Genjac the right once, but I can't, I don't want to get ahead of myself about this text. He would have called otherwise for an interpretation of his time of OHR, which even included that most must not refer to the number of those present, but to those who voted, but would have concluded this. I know, but business intervention can be one of the MPs. Here, you can talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1346	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so what is prescribed in Article 59(1). The Rules of Procedure are a protective mechanism. The safeguard mechanism and it must be interpreted and interpreted in connection with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that speaks of the structure of this home. Item one has two sentences. The first sentence is and there is the Home Secretary right, - decisions are made by the majority of the votes of the delegates present and voting. Dot. Then another sentence follows that we delegates will make the most of the effort to include at least 1/3 of the delegates from the territory of each entity. So 1/3 delegates from every entity's territory. It doesn't say who are present. So it says in the first sentence, but it was put to the presidency. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1347	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1348	Please be the chairman. You have eliminated our initiative to protect vital national interest against the Constitution from the procedure and we will deal with this issue in the coming days with the competent institutions. So that you may not further violate the Rules of Procedure and take for yourselves what is not yours. The Rules of Procedure interprets whoever brought it, it is the House, and no College and no legal experts who follow the work of this house, but Dom, I suggest you finely delegate this issue to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. That would be fair, let her give you an expert opinion, because that is the Commission that should do this job among other things.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1349	Thank you. Here you are because of prominent business interventions that are quite common and with very harsh words, since you all have a Rules of Procedure and have all read, please do you support the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that he has just read through his member of the House's House's House of Parliament? Please, who's in? To break the conclusion. The vote is under way, I ask you to plead by vote. - Eight for who's against it? – 2 I find that the House has suspended this debate and there is no need for a Constitutional and Legal Commission since the House is above the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And I will remind you that it is the College who is in charge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure, and I would like you to come to terms with it. We're approaching a statement on the third amendment. This second amendment has become an integral part of the text of the law. Amendment III Nikola Špirić. It refers to Article 139. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? - 4 Who's against it? – 8 I think there have been conditions for us to enter into a full law on the protection of consumers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who is in favour of the above-mentioned law along with the amendments that have been adopted? Please make a statement. - 8 Who's against it? Who's being held back? I realize the law has been passed. Do we have an entity majority? We have, at least 1/3 considering. Is there any objection to the vote? Some comment I'm hearing right now. 39 We move to point Ad. 8. Law on copyright and other related rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposed by the Council of Ministers. Delegate Momčilo Novaković submitted 4 amendments, Nikola Špirić 2, also 4 amendments in accordance with Article 89(2). Does Mr. Momčilo Novaković want to talk about his amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1350	My fellow delegates, as Mr. Džaferović said, can I not speak, so can I not explain because no amendment of mine has been adopted anyway. I just came out to say I won't explain the amendments, because it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1351	Thank you. Nikola Špirić is not in a position to explain his amendments because he is not present. Does the amendments that have been highlighted regarding the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina have an opinion? Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1352	I would like to thank the President for the intervention, Mr Špirić's amendment, and I will only mention that Amendment III and Amendment IV in principle relate to identical amendments that were recently adopted in the Industrial Property Act. These are the jurisdiction of the courts, i.e. the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina for criminal, or criminal, or criminal, and allocation to mention the funds on the basis of penalties charged. In this respect, Articles 3 and 4 to the adoption of new decisions and reforms of the judiciary or competent institutions in that area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Amendments III and IV may be accepted as they were accepted for industrial property. And let me take a chance on the Law of Copyright and Other Related Rights, this is today before you the third law of the set of laws that are stated in... Two have been adopted, I suppose the same sequence will be with this law, and this house has been fulfilled to mention its legislative obligation, i.e. to fulfil its obligation in terms of the adoption of laws that are in the EU guidelines. I also want to remind you of one news, since yesterday Bosnia and Herzegovina has become 106 members of the Sisak International Association for the Protection and Protection of Copyright. Bosnia and Herzegovina has introduced... Agency for the Protection and Protection of Copyright. By doing so, Bosnia and Herzegovina has acquired the rights and obligations arising from membership in this international organisation, which is approximately a pandan to Vajpol, i.e. it is working closely with the World Organisation for the Protection of Intellectual Property, the EU, the Council of Europe and UNESCO. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1353	I thank the minister. I'm afraid I don't have the opportunity to have anyone give me a word, because both deputies went somewhere, I'd just say that the last few days here were representatives of those structures representing actually authors. Today they were at the beginning of the session and in a series of talks highlighted the multiple interest of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities and all to have this legislative project adopted, and it is one of the obligations that we need to fulfil to join the International Association and Organisations. In that context, if anyone were to answer for a word about these amendments, Mr Ibrahim Spahić would give the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1354	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, I would just like to say to the team that, if Mrs. Minister has accepted these certain corrections through the amendments, the conditions for this law to be simply voted on and I think that the constitutional and legal committees have long been created the conditions that the environment around this law is in a practical sense and the great news is that we have become members of that world organisation. The only thing I would like to add is that we have tried to add in the Constitutional and Legal Committee some more solutions from our fellow delegates who have gone beyond what we have received as a previous proposal in other legislations of other countries. And it was a very good will and I would like to say that today I would no longer see the need to deepen the problems of this law, because I think this is one of the most important laws that BiH adopts here at the end of so many years and I would like to congratulate the author of the law Mrs Krneta and the Ministry who, together with NGOs, worked on this job committed in the past period.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1355	I'm joining in anyway. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Unless nobody's answering, I'm closing the debate. The amendment and Nikola Špirić refers to Article 54. So to recapitulate, Council of Ministers representative, Minister Azra expressed a positive opinion at this stage of BiH's legislation that Amendment III and Amendment IV of Nikola Špirić should be adopted. The amendment and Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 54. Who's in? Who's against it? 8 versus, 3 for, 1 for abstention. I figure the amendment didn't get most of it. Amendment and Momčilo Novaković. Who's in? 3 Who Is Opposing? Who's being held back? 1 I find that the amendment did not receive the required majority. 41 Amendment ii Nikola Špirić, referred to Article 83. Who's in? Who's against it? Eight against, two for. Who's being held back? - One, two, sorry. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment ii Momčilo Novaković is actually an identical amendment, so there is no reason to vote on it. Amendment III Nikola Špirić. Who's for Amendment III? - 9 Who's against it? - No Niko kao's restrained? I find Amendment III of Nikola Spiric accepted. Amendment III Momčilo Novaković is quite similar, in fact identical, so perhaps we could withdraw, because then we would. From what I understand, Novaković is withdrawing Amendment III. Amendment IV to Nikola Špirić. Who's in? - 9 Who's against it? Abstained? – 4 The abstentioned amandman IV has passed and has the required majority. Amendment IV to Momčilo Novaković, identical, withdraws. The conditions have been met to declare the whole of the law. Amendments III and IV Nikola Špirić are an integral part of the text. Who is for the Copyright Act and other related rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Please. Unanimity. I express my special satisfaction that the law that we all said was significant for Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted unanimously in this high House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. Nine. Law on state service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposed by the Council of Ministers. Second reading. The first reading was done at the 11th session. Second reading in accordance with Article 91 The Rules of Procedure shall consist of a debate on the proposed amendments. Since delegate Momčilo Novaković has submitted 3 amendments, and delegate Nikola Špirić has tabled 4 amendments, and Šefik Džaferović 2 amendments that have not entered the constituent part of the text of the law, I suggest that amendments be allowed to be proposed to explain their amendments. First, he would ask Mr. Momčilo Novaković to explain his amendments if he needed. Mr. Novaković finds it ineligible to explain his amendments. 42 Mr. Nikola Špirić is not such an opinion. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1356	Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate that fatigue has slowly overcome all of us to discuss such important legal projects, but by the way, I want to say that most of my amendments have therefore been accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I also want to say that we have all, that we have received a letter from the Deputy High Representative of Mr. Zone, in which he drew attention to a part of the amendment that we should not accept. I would also like to say that we have adopted an initiative concerning the abandonment of the Central Bank, the regulation and the problems of this law on the initiative of Governor Piter Nikolas, which the OHR's office has agreed to. And I want to end this today's attention against the amendments to a series of laws that I have defined, so which I have carefully read and defined amendments...to pass to cheer you up and to say that I am withdrawing the other amendments in order to make a positive statement on the State Service Act, because I appreciate that this law is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So my amendments, which I thought were important, were essentially accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and I withdraw these amendments that were passed on to the House by the time your statement was made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1357	So we have Mr. Nikola Špirić's subjugated amendments. Dear Envoy Šefik Džaferović does he stay with the admen? Here you go. Would you like to explain the amendments? Momčilo Novaković remains with his amendments. He's staying. There have been conditions to declare amendments between Šefik Džaferović and Momčilo Novaković. We will plead according to the amendments in order of the text of the law. Amendment ii of Šefik Džaferović, referred to Article 14(5). Who is for the adoption of the above-mentioned amendment? Who's against the above-mentioned amendment? I find the amendment has received the necessary majority. Let's see if he has an entity majority. Who is from Republika Srpska for the above-mentioned amendment? It's nobody. I find this amendment to go. One. I find that this amendment is going to be agreed upon. Secretary, can the alignment go without one member of the College? Yeah. 43 Allow 3 minutes to comply with this amendment. At the alignment of the amendments, Šefik Džaferović agreed and as such enters as an integral part of the text of the law. Amendment i Momčilo Novaković refers to Article 21(2). Who's in favor of this amendment? - 6 Who is against this amendment? Who's being held back? One against abstention. It's a re-enactment. I also find that the College has agreed on this amendment. Amendment I of Šefik Džaferović, referred to Article 28. Who's in? - 3 Who's against it? – 4 versus He did not get the required majority. Who's restrained, because of the stenogram. 4 abstentioned Amendment II Mojčil Novaković kao is for this amendment? - 5 Who is against this amendment? – 8 The amendment did not receive the required majority. Is he restrained? Amendment IV Nikola Špirić – we have exhausted the amendments. They've acquired conditions for, excuse me, another Amendment III to Momčilo Novaković, referred to Article 69. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? He didn't get the necessary majority. There have been conditions for us to approach the statement of the text of the law. I find that the text of Amendment II is an integral part of the text of Amendment ii of the Šefik Džaferović and Amendments i of Momčilo Novaković relating to Articles 14 and 21. It's an integral part of the text of the law on which we plead. Who is for the above text of the BiH State Service Act? Given that we've had amendments, it might be a good idea to form a committee of compliance with the House of Representatives immediately under this text. It's not in the same text. I suggest. Please. You're okay. It's awkward without Šimić. Okay, I think we'll see about that. Perhaps to give authority to the presidents of clubs or the College that... these commissions establish to meet 44 speedy obligations, but we'll see about that later, until Šimić arrives. Now, explain that to Mr. Sušac. Ad.10. Law on interstate and inter-entity road transport Proposer of the Council of Ministers. First reading. You've received a report from the committees responsible. Does any of the presidents have a desire to report? Here you are, sir, dear colleague Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1358	Dear chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests. In its 12.12th session, the Foreign and Trade Policy Commission discussed this law and the amendments adopted by the House of Representatives, with the presence of the motionors, who in fact correctly explained all amendments and the law as a whole. Following the debate at the Commission, the Commission accepted the unanimous text of the draft law with the amendments adopted and concluded that the draft law was addressed to the House of Parliamentary Assembly in the adoption procedure. At the same time, the Commission proposes to the House of Peoples that the second reading of the law be carried out in the same session, given that this law is extremely important for both entities. We have been informed that the representatives of the ministry of both entities participated in the agreement and that they were also agreed so that indeed this law on the Commission received the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1359	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1360	I would ask the secretary if he can notify when, when the delegates are familiar with the Commission's maintenance date on whose agenda this law will be. I have not received any notice that the Commission will meet and that such a law will be on the agenda. Since I didn't have it, I didn't even have the opportunity to act in amendment during the time the Commission was working and that way my delegate's right was denied. Namely, I've been called to maintain this commission, but without that point in the agenda. There were some agreements on the call, etc., but I didn't have that point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1361	Okay, I'd ask if we don't have that kind of debate here. Each envoy, the delegate is obliged to attend the working bodies, commissions, homes, and the agenda is determined at the beginning of the session. Although at this point, the secretary claims it was on the agenda back then. I would like us not to make complications about something that is clearly 45 in general agreed on both the Commission and all relevant structures. Perhaps in this context, counterpart Špirić wants to say something.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1362	We seem to know each other well. Ladies and gentlemen, since there has been no amendment in the first reading that the text on the Commission has been agreed, given that the Representative Council adopted this legislative project, I think we would have made a useful move for Bosnia and Herzegovina if we had combined the first and second reading, since there are no amendments. So, let's get to the bottom of this bill today and get to this law. So, I suggest we finish our second reading on this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1363	I'm thanking you. I'd remind you. The amendment phase has passed so that there is no longer any possibility of anyone passing the amendment. It's been 30 days since the debate on the Commission, so there's no possibility, and we said it had full consent. Yeah. I think there's a lot of similar or identical suggestions. Who's to conduct a debate by members of the law? It's the first reading to adopt. - 13 Do you mind? There isn't. I find that the text of the law, abstentions, pardon me, please, with 1 vote abstention, 13 for the first reading passed the Law on interstate and inter-entity road transport of the Council of Ministers. There is a proposal from the competent Commission to make a statement today on the second reading. Since there are no amendments, I conclude the debate and we approach the vote on the text of the law in the second reading of the Council of Ministers of the Law on interstate and inter-entity road transport. Who's for the above-mentioned text of the law? - 12 to counter? Abstained? With 12 votes for and 1 abstention, I am very pleased that this law has been passed in this high house. I'm just suggesting that we go through these agreements by 15 points, since, well, then we're gonna break up, because they're asking a lot of us to break up. Ad. 11. An agreement between BiH and the Republic of Austria on improving and protecting investment, the BiH presidency If there are no requests, you have a commission report, unless there is a requirement for public representation, there is nothing controversial. 46 Who's in? He was unanimously adopted. Ad. 12. A trade agreement between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the BiH presidency, also has a written report from the Commission. I don't think there's any reason for us to have a special discussion unless someone's answering for their word. Does anyone have a discussion? There isn't. Who's in? This agreement was adopted unanimously. Ad. 13. An agreement between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on improving and protecting investment, the BiH Presidency Who is there for this agreement unless there is a debate, and I didn't see anyone come forward? I find it unanimous, forgive Ilić, yes, unanimously adopted. Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Peoples It is a permanent obligation of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, of every commission. Do you?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1364	I would like first of all to express my satisfaction with Mr. Chairman and Mr. Mr. President in the absence of Mr. Divković, therefore to the complete College of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to express my satisfaction that the members of the Commission, chairing Tokyo, the first three meetings of Presidents Dragutin Rodić and Mr. Niko Sušac, Mr. Šefik Džaferović and Mr. Ivo Živković, as well as Mr. Nikola Špirić, have done everything possible to discuss several laws with their constitutional basis, and then of course different agreements, declarations, resolutions and hardening of factual views,... different performances given by representatives of citizens and associations. I would like to express my real satisfaction that we have worked in full composition, as you can see during all these sessions and that this effort has been remarkable and the secretary of Mr. Aljoša Čampara, who is an associate of this commission, as well as the relevant bodies of the College and the Council of Ministers. According to this record, we were working on the record as it was recorded and would have to say that, of course, Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Rodić, who were in the full range of all 13 sessions, and the rest of us tried to be practically there when we could. So I could only be on 10 because I was on 10 means a complete term. Mr. Špirić was also at the 10th and Mr. Ivo Živković at the 9th session. He's here or he's already gone, but I have to say that it doesn't diminish the contribution of certain members of the Commission, Mr. Sušac I didn't skip, he's always out there somewhere. You know the composition of the Commission, and I see that you have protested, if you were not in full contention, I am pleased that we have firstly affirmed one method of work, and that is to talk to the Commission about the representations and complaints of citizens and associations and different 47 I would say the Association of Disputed Human Rights, and that is one new one, to say the fact that you need to affirm with the proposal to accept this report, because it is one effort that is an integral part of your work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1365	I thank the chairman of the Commission, stressing the satisfaction that this commission has worked successfully. I hope that this home will be presented both with the notions and the fate of these performances, because I think it's very important that we have it. And if there's no further discussion on the work of this committee, and there is, then we won't end it, but we'll have a debate with what I would suggest that someone here has fallen a "for" ballot might need it. Maybe you, and you do. And you threw it away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1366	I would like first to put forward a proposal one, which is to supplement this report with a report on the number and method of voting, means the number of votes in the adoption of certain decisions. Namely, I have information, I am informed that most of these decisions, or opinions of their committees, have been made by revoted members of the commission in the order of the Serbian people. Secondly, I cannot express this satisfaction with the work of this committee, given that on several occasions the Commission has adopted solutions that are contrary to the Constitution and the law, and therefore cannot accept this commission's report to the team before I asked for the commission to be changed, and that the chairmans never put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1367	I'm thanking you. We are therefore receiving a report from the Commission. I don't think there's any need to vote. Let him vote. Who is to accept the Commission's report constitutional-legal? - 11 for who's against it? - 1 Who Is Restraint? – 1 Congratulations to the Commission once again, and all statistics to Mr Novaković can be found in the minutes by having to warn you that the same Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Rules of Procedure is written when it comes to who is in favour and who is against it is not who is the Srbin who is the Hrvat, who is Bošnjak, because it is the members of the Commission. The session is due tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. I'm going to beg you for accuracy. The seat was interrupted at 5:30. 48 Dear envoys, your excellency, honored guests, I welcome you all to the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me remind you that yesterday we realized the 14th item of the agenda, so we move to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. Information on the direct commitments for the implementation of the conditions for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe You have received the material. There has been a lot of talk on both the media and the Commission's foreign policy sessions. I'm opening a debate. Whether or not the specified information is being answered for a word. Dear envoy Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1369	I have a technical question. I failed to find this information and failed in the documents submitted to the delegate, I failed to amend which was subsequently adopted by the Legal Affairs Commission. Is that just a question with me, or maybe all the delegates didn't get it? I would ask the secretary to give an explanation, because yesterday morning I called the Secretary General of the Assembly and told me that it was not delivered to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1370	Any more questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1371	Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1372	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys, you have received a list of conditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina should meet after its entry into the Council of Europe. The list of direct commitments was defined during three meetings of the Council of Europe Committee on 27 September at a meeting of the Political Committee, then on 29 October at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights and on 7 November at the meeting of the Political Affairs Committee. The list of obligations is a list which, in a certain way, sets out by the Committee on Countries entering full membership in the Council of Europe. This list you received and signed by the representatives of the highest state institutions and supported by their special letters by the prime ministers of both entities' governments. Of course it's not final. It can be formally-49 legally amended at the very session of the 22 January Parliamentary Assembly, when the issue of BiH's admission to full membership will be discussed. Mr. Genjac's question was in principle, the procedure for how this list came about. I can say that the first version of these commitments was established by the Political Committee in Strasbourg on 27 September, that, in accordance with the usual procedure, the list of obligations was discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights in Paris on 29 October, and then there were ten amendments, which I can say here for the sake of the entire public. The draft opinion in the introductory text added a passage, however, stressing that state institutions should be strengthened at the expense of entity-level institutions, if necessary by reforming the Constitution on a specific issue. In point 3i) of the Convention, the text you have here is added to the Convention, and I will explain it. This is an amendment to this as soon as possible and not later than one year, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Protocol I,IV,VI,VII,XII within one year after its entry. Therefore, this was an amendment relating to the text which was held at the Committee's meeting, set out in the Political Affairs Committee session. In point i)v)a, the addition of this text to the second paragraph is to consider, within one year, with the help of the Venice Commission, electoral legislation in light of the Council of Europe's standards and to amend it where necessary. In point c), this sentence, which stands, therefore, to adopt and implement the following laws and this supplement: In accordance with the standards of the Council of Europe within two tonnes of its adoption as a new law, an obligation has been added to the law on education, at the level of BiH and at the level of entities. Then, to adopt and implement fully, the deadline here is two years from the earlier deadline set. In point V, regarding human rights. In point c), this last part of the sentence that stands, which would include existing entity-level ombdusmen institutions, also added the text. In point (e) including the merger of the Constitutional Court and the House of Human Rights, the text adopted by the Political Committee following the amendments of the Legal Committee. The new amendment to go (a) is to strengthen co-operation between the armed forces, based on the common defence policy, and (b) to reconstruct the armed forces in BiH in order to comply with international standards and especially with the principles of democratic control of defence forces and transparency and planned defence and budgetary processes, which are these ten amendments, which represent the amendments of the Committee on Legal Issues to the first text of the Political Affairs Committee, adopted by the Political Affairs Committee as its final position on 7 November. I would remind you that it is the obligations defined by the institutions of the Council of Europe, which are not represented by representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which have participated in the work of the Committee. 50 I will remind you, in the work of the Committee in front of the permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly as a visiting member on 27 September, Mr Tošić, Mr Lozančić and I participated in the 29th October in Paris, and finally when the text was adopted on the Political Affairs Committee. So, this text was finally adopted when these amendments were accepted, was attended by a distinguished colleague of Mr. Turjačanin at a meeting of the Committee in Strasbourg. Here, that would be an answer to Mr. Genjac's question. At the same time, given that I have come to the floor, I would, within this item of the agenda, which bears the Information on Direct Obligations, also agree on the conclusion of this House, which is that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Peoples brings the following conclusion. The BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers are committed, by respecting the deadlines, taken by signing the letter that BiH accepts the commitments arising from its accession to the Council of Europe, to approach the implementation of its obligations under the letter. When drawing up their work plans for 2001, those institutions should give absolute priority to legal and other projects, which relate to meeting BiH's commitments and which will come from the accession to the Council of Europe. It is very important to point out that, if you have received all of us in writing that we are in the course of the collection of proposals for the work programme of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly for the coming year and in this context, the College will certainly, in the course of the legislative projects to be adopted for the following year, put those obligations as an integral part of its work, i.e. considering these legal projects and other acts. Thank you. Here, a replica or a question?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1373	It is well known to me that Mr Tokić and the chairman of the House of Peoples and the chairman of the Commission in the Council of Europe are delegations and vice-president of the Commission for Foreign Affairs and it is simply his will, regardless of what cost us not to attend a plenary session, but I cannot agree that Mr Tokic is entitled to interpret what we are saying and what we ask. I asked very clearly, and yesterday I asked a parliamentary question. Why were no amendments submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was adopted at the end of October, to delegates? Why are no amendments delivered until today's session when we have this on the agenda so that we can discuss issues. I don't think there's a delegate in the House of Peoples of such status that he hears a report at the session himself about an all-present Tokić so he can discuss it. That's one question. I'm telling you, I, I really didn't get the information on the commitments on today's agenda. I'm asking the secretary, I'm asking anyone here who can give an answer. Is that information assigned, did any of the delegates get that information for today's session of the agenda? After these answers, they can participate in the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1374	I'd just like to explain something. Did you get this text letter, material? Then it's a misunderstanding if you're not. I've got information that you all have this text. Not amendments, but the text of final commitments. I would ask that 51, then, is the text of a list of conditions that BiH needs to meet after its entry into the Council of Europe. I'm giving a ten-minute break to the envoys who didn't get the material yes. I'm sorry. I thought you were strictly looking for the difference between the individual reports of the Committee and that's what I gave the accent on. You'll get the final text of the commitment. This is what is the relevant document for the Parliamentary Assembly. I'd like to ask you to take a break for 10 minutes to share. I'm sorry. I've been informed that they've all won. Here, indicative that the Srbin got it. If no one answers for a word. [[PAUZA]] Here's Mr. Špirić and Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1375	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, respected members of the Council of Ministers. Namely, the information agenda item on direct commitments to implement all the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. I think that there is all the information and letter of intent signed by the chairman of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, members of the Bureau and chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think the goal is also to inform delegates, of course, those who are less or more informed, what and what obligations await which authorities in BiH, to meet so that they can become an integral part of wider integration in Europe. But it seems to me that any conclusion would be prematurely politicizing these obligations. I think it's good that both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and we know what our obligations are and I don't see any reason why now after the letter of intent, we're ordering what this should do, but yes, I suppose these are serious bodies, serious institutions, that each of them will have this letter of intent to see whose obligations they are in 2002. So I think any conclusion after this letter would be more of a politicization of our obligations than an actual work to realize those obligations. In that sense, I think it's good that we've been informed and I think that the conclusion that dom Chairman gospodin Tokić suggested at this point in the agenda is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1376	Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1377	Dear colleagues, respected delegates, of course, I'm disabled by having just received this document and in this half minute I managed to spot some things though. I had half a minute. The second thing, for two weeks in the draft agenda, is the possibility of reviewing our delegation's report from the Political Committee, which is an integral part of this issue and what should be discussed in the context of the debate on BiH's obligations. Namely, I have looked at this document that I have looked at amendments, and I see in most of the amendments that in terms of BiH's interest, there are, I would say, cheaped and 52 criteria down. Some deadlines have been extended, a provision on the issue of the army and the prospect of forming a single army of BiH has been amended and I think the document has been regressed from what was accepted by the Political Affairs Committee. Of course, it is clear to me that this is not in the jurisdiction of the House of Peoples or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor can we change this document. We need to implement what is our obligation, and I stand for it, and we need to accept the stakes that will strengthen our commitment to implement what is concluded. However, what could have affected and what I expected as a delegate in the House of Peoples, it is that many trips abroad to Romania, France, Paris, Belgium, etc. Not to mention what we're going to have to talk about more specifically when the budget's being discussed. I thought that these great travels, especially the chairman of our delegation to the Council of Europe, were used for lobbying, in the sense that the document was repaired rather than made worse. It turns out that the document has deteriorated and that these huge travels and huge spent money have actually been spent on political tourism. In this regard, if we are already talking about the obligations that we need to implement to bring BiH closer to the Council of Europe, I think that the obligation of our delegation, especially the chairman of our delegation, should be to do no harm to this process and I think it is hurting this process, and here's how. It is known that the misinformation that has been made public about the statement by one of the leaders of the parliamentary group in the Council of Europe, which have damaged both this man and, of course, BiH and the process. It is known that the report from B-LI-SI, broadcast on the central diary, that we were, except we weren't at the Political Committee session, but we weren't just because Šurjan didn't show up. If Šurjan had come, we'd be on the report. At that moment, it became clear to me who that joke about Little Mujo was about, but later on, some things got me serious. In fact, at a meeting of the Political Committee, which I attended as a member of the Study Delegation, our team, our delegation had the opportunity to speak, which is quite understandable, because BiH was being discussed. At this session of the Political Committee and Mr Šurjan, whom I must congratulate on knowing the opportunities in BiH and a very high-quality report and Mr Teri Dejvis, whom I also have to thank for the understanding and support for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, presented their findings on the occasion of the following. Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be a hostage of Dayton solutions, or, I quote, "The Council of Europe and we in the Council of Europe will lose credibility if we continue to make BiH more difficult to become a member of the Council of Europe". In other words, the reality of BiH, all the circumstances that are what they are are understood by officials of the Council of Europe and there is indeed a consensus and a willingness to invite BiH to the Council of Europe. At least he can do what the chairman of the delegations can to avoid harming the process. And he has damaged this process in his speech, in a way that has led to defamation and politics and states and parties, etc., in the following way. I'll quote some of the statements in that five-minute speech. Mr. Tokić said that, on the issues of some of the delegates, Karadžić and Mladić were mentioned with the arrest of the accused. Mr. Tokić said, quotes: “The current government, not only has it declared that it supports The Hague tribunal. The current authority delivered the UN tribunal of a senior officer, or commander of the BiH Army, to The Hague." I haven't had a chance to speak at that session since I was a guest, but later I warned Mr. Tokić that it wasn't correct for three reasons. 53 First, Sefer Halilović was not delivered, Sefer Halilović surrendered, which is particularly important these days, as the moment was important for Mr Halilović's ability to defend himself from freedom. Secondly, it is not correct because this general Mr. Halilović was a member of the government in which Mr. Tokić is participating. The second thing, Mr Tokić, said in a speech that earlier in BiH the forces that wanted to take BiH to the second time, in the context of terrorism in the wake of an attack on the World Trade Centre in New York, but the current government was determined to... it is an unprecedented banalisation of the state, because the leader of the state delegation, cannot talk about the parties to the current, former and future authorities, because it can be interpreted that BiH should be admitted to the Council of Europe while one government, and if another authority comes, it should be excluded. This unprecedented banalisation of politics and the state, by the leader of the state delegation, I cannot tolerate. Therefore, with the conclusion and acceptance of our obligations to conclude, that we should implement obligations adopted both on the Political Committee and on legal matters, I would only add a proposal for one conclusion that the leader of our parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe is not harming this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1378	I thank you for your exposure to Mr. Genjac. After Mr. Genjac's word came Mr. Turjačanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1379	As a member of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, I have the need to address this home as a member of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that I was a guest participant, so is the status of our delegation at the Council of Europe. At the last meeting of the Political Committee, which discussed the amendments to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which concerned the final application for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. I believe that the time, on the threshold of BiH's expected admission to the Council of Europe, should be carried out today's discussion from the sphere of politics and I believe that the topic is too serious to bring it down so on the ground floor. I therefore propose that this House adopt the conclusions that Mr. Chairman of the Council of Europe has put before this House for adoption and that we end this discussion in a tolerated spirit, with one consensus, which is expected of us in the coming year. The only comment I would just like to make here, I believe that on this document signed by the representatives of the BiH-level executive and legislative authority, however, was a good idea that Mr Tokić initially observed, which is that the signatories of this agreement were also to be representatives of the entity's legislative and executive authorities, given that a certain part of the harmonisation of the legal legitimacy is not only relevant to the overall space, or only to BiH, but also to the authority of the entity. I therefore believe that, in fact, the signatories of this agreement should be responsible for both RS and Federation of BiH and congratulated Mr. Tokić, my colleague Genjac should not be angry, he was president of the Council of Europe yesterday, I see that today he is President of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1380	54 Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1381	Mr. Chairman, I'd only like two interventions. Firstly, I do not agree with what Mr Turjačanin said, who effectively completed his work as a member of the delegation by commending the chairman, because it is, in fact, an invisible system of one type of production of relations in which democratic systems are not adapted and do not meet the standards of this institution that we want to enter, not because I do not think that compliments should be shared between ourselves, but because the subject of our work today is simply information, based on the letters of intent to be supported in an adequate manner by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH itself. It's, like, one curtual thing. As far as other matters are concerned, I also disagree with the appearance of Mr Turjačanin, who, this time, has said something that is contrary to the spirit of the institution that we are entering into whose, I would say, function as representatives of this home and part of the BiH delegation. Namely, there is no reason to co-subscribe by entity representatives of the government, either legislative or executive, a document in which BiH is admitted to the Council of Europe and that is not recommended, because it would be non-session and precedent in the practice of the Council of Europe. Since I have been working with this institution for more than 15 years, I know very well that this has never happened for a single member of the Council of Europe has never signed any region on behalf of the state or signed representatives of state institutions. As for the list of signatories. That's two small interventions. It doesn't mean any revolutionary change regarding this document, but a note about the structure of the institution we're entering, that's one thing. As for the Anjeli I heard from Mr Genjac, it is said that in the amendments, as I understand it, I have followed the text well, in some ways costing BiH's position at the Jatermaki of the state, I would say that it is also not true. In my belief from the amendments that I had had the opportunity to hear earlier from reports of different institutions such as the House of Representatives, the Presidency, etc. and the Council of Ministers who discussed this document before their signature and accepted it and authorised their chairman to sign it. I can say that these amendments are entirely consistent with the facts. First, the principle in Amendment A is clearly affirmed here for the first time that, if necessary, the revision of the Constitution on certain issues ensures the strengthening of state institutions at the expense of entity institutions. So, a precise one position state-owned and that's a good result and I'd like to talk about and no matter who participated in it and how it is, it's a very serious thing. The second is also a discussion that we've been having for several years from Dejton to this day. Five years on the Convention on Human Rights and its protocols. Here, the most affirmative way to support rapid ratification, the acceptance of this document, given that this document is one of the members of the BiH Constitution and one of the contradictions in which we have lived when it comes to constitutional solutions, is beginning to be a normal situation, when it comes to the relationship between BiH and such a multilateral institution, such as the Council of Europe. 55 And finally, to recognize the problem of segregation in BiH that primarily produce local authorities and those with which authority is the authority in relation to school authorities, in a request to pass a law on schools, at BiH and entity level, is a definitive affirmation of a normal standard of state that wants to build European standards. Therefore, these are all, to say the remarks which confirm that this has been seriously discussed in bodies called the Political Committee, and in particular I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in connection with the Election Law and the legislative on elections in the light of the Council of Europe's standards, it is undermining that wherever this document is needed, this document should be revised. Therefore, when a political man reads these amendments, he sees that we and the standards of our own European institutions called the Council of Europe are being taken care of, whether we want to or not to take care of the interpretations that will follow when we apply these different documents and obligations that our representatives of state institutions have made. From this point on, I do not think that Mr. Tokić's proposal is a surplus, given that it is known that we have such a relationship, which always slows down standardisation, to be very precise about our relations, and in this sense it is quite logical for the BiH Parliament to call on the Council of Ministers, whose competence is one of the powers to offer laws within the appropriate deadlines, in accordance with the principles that we have signed as well as the Presidency, and in particular this last one, I would rather include this last commitment that Mr Tokić spoke of, that we are implementing our own programme. This would have to be an integral part of the conclusion, and something that is meant and, I fully accept and support this conclusion with this note, that our obligation would be not only to give in the second task, but to say firstly that, in accordance with my 2002 programme of activities, the House of Peoples will fulfil all its obligations regarding the signature given on our behalf and that in other institutions, of course, at the state level and entity here, what Mr Goran Turjačanin spoke of is the obligation that everyone has in their jurisdiction. So this is a very good way, so that in one, as I would say, a precise atmosphere, we standardize our laws and our regulations in accordance with the needs and interests of this country to take a new step from this institution. The move is called that, when in January, if everything is okay, we will be admitted to this first session of Parliament and, of course, when it is finished in April and some other sessions, we will simply create ourselves that space that we cannot forget about. This is just the first step, which would be planetary and... one small step for BiH in European integration, crucially next year, I believe and for this reception to say, the signing of the accession document to the European Union and the standards we have spoken of many times. I expect that this government, the Council of Ministers of BiH, will ensure next year that it is a signator or co-signator with the European Union of the document, in order to catch up with Macedonia, Croatia on the path of European integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1382	I thank Mr Spahić. Is it a replica? The replica of Mr. Turjačanin, then Mr. Novaković answered. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1383	Dear fellow delegates, I had no intention of going out here with suggestions, because for suggestions, this is just the information we are considering and which discussion was in the function of the comment, and the comment was, just in relation to some of the things that we look at at point IV.d) my comment was on the point specifically relating to V point p) and finally the last one not to say point V and I. Just so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1384	I thank Mr. Turjačanin for his clarification. Dear Mr. Novaković answered for the discussion. I'd just like to warn you it's about information, so I don't see any excessive purpose for...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1385	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, Mr. President, fellow delegates, I have here a document before this day which has come and is signed by Mr. Joza Križanović, Mr. Beriz Belkić, Živko Radišić, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Željko Mirjanić and Sejfudin Tokić. I think this composition of the signatories of this document speaks sufficiently of the importance of this document and also of the fact that there is no need to strengthen any specific conclusions of this document. That's why I came out to say that I disagree with the suggestions that this document is being strengthened by some conclusion of ours that they are signed here under the obligation to do so, when they are sure to do so, whether they are obliged to do so or not, given who signed it and who this document was signed to. Also, our obligations, obligations of this home according to this document will be expressed through our work programme for 2002. Since we are going to anticipate our work programme, probably these obligations that stand here, which concern us, then I do not see the need for us to be special to ourselves in some conclusion or programming part of something that will already be an integral part of the programme. So, I would disagree with these proposals specifically for some conclusions, of course, and I don't think that these obligations should be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1386	Mr. Chairman Sejfudin Tokić appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1387	Dear envoys, I had no intention of contacting you, but given a few direct formulations, I have a need to clarify. A big dilemma has appeared here, on occasion, whether what has been defined as BiH's obligations is too little or too much. I would like to make it very clear to those who are too few who don't mind that by their work, by voting for the laws, and I didn't notice that those who exactly require that there be more of these obligations have succeeded in doing so not now when they are in the period of opposition but also in the period when they were in power. So you don't mind. We can fulfill twice as many obligations as this is written by Mr. Genjac and I expect your cooperation on this plan. 57 Of course, I understand emotions, but I don't understand if they appear periodically, in a way that in this home it seems somewhat caricatureal. I, from this point of view, will explain this presence of Mr Genjac and his view of the Political Committee meeting within the framework of a study stay in a group of OSCE led by an distinguished member of the European Parliamentary Assembly through a few things, exact things. I would not like to talk about my resignation, because it was the delegation's statement, but after that coming delegation, which is unusually the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe issued a statement, an official statement, an official statement stating that it was the first time that the delegation had performed so uniquely, encouraged all those who wanted to see BiH in the Council of Europe and showed the ability and readiness of the BiH institution to take commitments and that it had defined the Political Committee to declare the report of Mr Šurjan. Of course, as a caring collector of these documents from the Council of Europe, I ask our service to deliver this statement to Mr Genjac, regardless of what was published then and in the media. At the same time, the group led by the distinguished lady said at an official dinner that she hoped that the delegation present, which was primarily about opposition MPs, could learn something from the work of that delegation and that it was certainly a good school in that room, quote the lady who led the delegation. Yes, I said there was power in the past, and I can say there are now, who want BiH out of the way of European integration. Some do so openly manifesting, some declaring themselves to include BiH in European integration, but practical moves make it impossible to enter, primarily through the adoption of the law, through fulfilling obligations. The second dilemma that emerged, regarding whether the signatures of those requested by the Council of Europe were obtained and they had already left. In addition to these six, in order not to do so now, the information works, special letters of support were given by two prime ministers of the government, two Bosnian-Herzegovina entities of the RS and the Federation of BiH. Not wanting to politicise this further, or as someone said, I would just like to point out that this is a significant moment for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because after '93 when it was applied and '95. When taken into the procedure of BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, this is a significant moment, and I must say that it particularly implodes me to what it is in the period when this composition of the delegation is and I have the special honour to be chair of that delegation. About the different illusions, about the travels, I want to make it very clear here. A delegation from the Council of Europe, a delegation from BiH to the Council of Europe, took the task seriously. It was and it was good that it was on all committees that discussed the issue of BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. It's strictly in line with the Foreign Affairs Ministry. I will remind you that on behalf of BiH, in the procedure of admission on committees, no one can come forward except the parliamentarians, so neither the ambassador nor the member of the Council of Ministers can go, and that once for the first time we have synchronised activities, joint efforts and this high house, the Council of Ministers, the Presidency have come to a significant result. There's no reason to spoil this little day-to-day political connotations or needs today and this little solemn moment with further replicas on new topics. In order to remain quite clear, therefore, since this is the third time that it appears here, Mr. General Halilović, I know very well the procedure that the gentleman has voluntarily surrendered and I know very well and legally and how 58 years you want him delivered by the BiH authorities to the International Tribunal in The Hague and that is the fact. And these BiH citizens will do well to deliver power, not to be caught by SFOR or anyone else. It is a civilization process and a procedure in which this structure of Parliament should also be advocated by the executive structure of the government – power and opposition. In that context, any politicizing about this global information, I don't think it would be productive any further. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Genjak Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1388	It is very useful for these questions to be precise and clear. I immediately upon my return from Strasbourg asked through our Mission to deliver stenograms of exposure from the Political Committee. Namely, Mr. Tokić said what he said and what I cited, and members of our delegation who spoke other than Mr. Tokić were Mr. Tošić and Mr. Lozančić. Their exposure was, we agree with Mr. Tokić. I understand why they agreed, but it was their exposure. We needed this as an example to learn. I really don't have much to learn from this, especially I don't have to learn from Mr. Halilović's lecture that it's good to deliver him to power, if the man has already surrendered voluntarily, which is quite positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1389	I told the authorities and not violently to be caught, in that context I said and there are students, of course, who can learn nothing from any lesson, but I believe that this home and all future delegates of ours will be unique and that, like this, we will agree with each other, will be affirmably accepted, whatever political options we come from. The only dilemma here was whether it was necessary to conclude, given that the obligations are quite clear, in this context perhaps that the College should take the obligation to define these obligations in its work programme within the framework of the College's business obligation to formulate the work of the People's House for next year. There was another conclusion, which applied, which was formulated by the gentleman and asked for his home to be declared to ask Tokić to stop acting harmfully. Is that what you're asking, Mr. Genjac, to vote on it? Okay. Who is it that, I would point out that it is a conclusion, which in a certain way imputes incorrectly in one business procedure, that it is done harm, but all one thing. Who is it that, who thinks this should be put to a vote? Two. There is no majority to put your conclusion on the vote at all. I was ready for him, but here's Dom's estimate that it's inconclusive. Can we end this point this way? I thank the distinguished colleagues for the debate and for getting acquainted with this significant strategic material. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 16. The report on the expenditures of BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January-September 2001 We asked the Presidency for this report, in the context of preparations for the next two points of the 59 agenda and the budget rebalancing and succession law, which is related to budget rebalancing. I thank the honourable member of the presidency, Beriz Belkić, for his presence. I guess you'll take the word right now or, uh, go ahead. Member of the presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1390	Dear MPs, therefore, as Mr. Chairman has said, at the request of this House, the Bureau has provided the documents on the agenda through the Treasury Ministry. So it's the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget for the first nine months and the report on the service of BiH's public debt for the first nine months. The Bureau discussed these documents on 7 December and in some ways adopted them, i.e. it took note of them, because in the Constitution of BiH it was practically not decidently stressed that the Presidency is considering and adopting a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget, but in some analogy, since it is a legal proposal, we felt that we were mandatory and responsible for doing so. I'll be as short as I can without ambition to be competent as a processor. So, if further clarifications are needed, the ministry of the vault gentlemen are here, so they'll be able, if there are some, to say the absecs that the presidency is due to its structure and not the relevant services for these things, not being able to explain you in a way that pleases you. Here, I'll try in the shortest. The fact is, and the main thing is that this report says it is for the first nine months and that BiH institutions have had the following situation. When it comes to planned revenues, they were made by 4,219,346 KM less than planned for the first nine months, and when it comes to expenditures, the expenditures were made more than planned for 2,945,999 KM and when they are put in, or collected, compared to the planned in the first nine months, we have a breakthrough, so to speak of the planned relative to something more than 7 million KM. Of course, in the analytical debate that contains this report, the users of Budget are clearly indicated, who have caused the most of the situation, these are the BiH Presidency, of course in different amounts, which you have in the Constitutional Court report, the Ministry of Eurepical Integration and these several other users who are listed here in the report. But thanks to the situation that a number of users did not withdraw, so to put it, what was planned, or activated, that amount which is otherwise 8,132,000 amortizes, so it comes down to 5,186,000 and, of course, when everything is put into relation with other users, we have the result of what I said to those 7 million marks outside the box planned. Of course, the Bureau recommended to the Council of Ministers, bearing in mind this fact, it takes such measures, including, to say the moratorium among those users who put the budget of BiH and the ministry of the vault, informing us that instruments and principles on which the vault is otherwise operating to keep this thing under control are not allowed by any budgetary user to cross the figure which is otherwise approved for this current year. So, to clarify, if the BiH presidency spent the first ten months of what was planned for it in a year, practically the Treasury Ministry will suspend the institution's funding in this case, I say, the Presidency. So that's the measure we absolutely supported and a few just to say our thoughts, which were also found in the conclusions that went towards the Council of Ministers. So it's clear that only the picker, you see, emphasized 60 that the report has a preliminary character, although this is a nine-month report, so what is it like, because it's based on the unsustainable and non-quality reports of Budget users. So I'm a processor, kind of expressing reserves according to this report, but he's who he is. It emphasizes the lack of a unique information system that this substance causes, but here it also stresses that it is at some first stage of realization. It would be significant today to note that we were in the package discussing state audit reports, i.e. state audit auditors in several BiH institutions. You've probably been able to see those reports. These reports, to say the more difficult findings than what I was talking about, could be concluded that this is applicable to almost all budget users, that there is general non-transparency, intricacies in the management and monitoring of budget revenues and expenditures that cause one confusion, cause one non-transparency in one word, that there are no instruments of internal self-control for the users of Budget, therefore, self-control ways of using Budget, that there are no sublegal acts, acts that regulate certain ways of spending certain funds, starting with travel costs, representations, use of telephones, etc., to procedures which obliges the law on procurement, etc. So, of course, it is obvious that it is necessary to educate people who do these monitoring and realization tasks of the budget. So, when it comes to the Presidency, let me put it this way, I stay at the presidency as one of the undisciplined users. I used to say that the Presidency had been brought into this position in some way through planning for this year, because the amendment 800,000 was removed compared to the planned one and the Presidency took the unsettled commitments of 200,000 last year, but the fact is that the situation is so. We've taken certain measures in terms of staffing. We didn't have, in practice, a man who answered and ran the finance service in the presidency, but we had people who followed it and recorded it. We took measures to adopt internal acts, which regulate relations, unite costs in one place, records, etc., because it was in a different way organised in the Bureau by cabinets, etc., so I think we'll have a much better situation than we are now. So much for the Budget report. I mentioned that we were also considering the BiH Public Debt Service Report, which is also an integral part of this document that you are considering today and you will see in the processor's findings that the service of BiH's public debt has certain problems in asset security, etc. by the fact that in June, the Bureau also considered this topic at our request, because we felt that, and we felt that, practically, it was not a complete matter, especially from the point of view of the BiH state's debt, from the point of view of the effects that these credits produce, or what the state gets by withdrawing these loans and, one thing that was significant to us. We asked the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Treasury to try to carry out further allocation of commitments, not only to entities, but to the end-user, thinking that there are credit users who are, it is possible to service their own debts, rather than to make it all, practically from public revenues, whether the entity is BiH states. So here's as short as I was able and professional as to comment on this, of course, with my note that the material processors are here, together I think we'll be able to respond. Thank you for your attention. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1391	I thank the distinguished Mr. Beriz Belkić, a member of the BiH presidency. I'm opening a debate. Speaking for the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1392	Given that the next point is one of the next points and the Budget Rebalance proposal, I won't be taking much time at this point, but I have to express my dissatisfaction that the figures in the Report are what they are. In itself, the fact that we have the vault should make this report look like this. From which it is obvious that the Treasury has not performed its function to a sufficient extent, of course, and I don't think it has done its job at all, but that it has not done its basic function enough, it is obvious. In that sense, I don't think he can avoid a certain degree of responsibility for the condition he is. There are some findings here that I cannot agree with, such as the fact that this is the result of the imposed Budget, or the restrictions of the imposed Budget. And I agree that Budget wasn't realistically planned, but not in the way in which it was said here. In fact, it is unreally planned because the planned revenues are higher than those achieved. If the entity's obligations are excluded which must and should be realised, then it is a brand of 5.524,922 or if part of the funding is added, or a donation to the State Border Service, it is 3,749,220 KM. It would be common for expenditures to monitor revenues, because income cannot be invented and expenditure can be reduced and controlled. So such a finding could not stand and probably has, as the proponent of this text has said, certain chambers and non-responsibility in the use of budget funds. Namely, under c) the promoter said that the reasons for the assessment that the excesses had been made were exclusively the result of the communiqués, therefore, certain communiqués existed, the excesses were not exclusively the result. What I cannot accept is the conclusion at the end of this report, where it is said that the other variant is rebalance, so they have two variants, one is restrictive, the other is rebalancing, and that the circle of restrictions will be carried out with pay and material costs. Dear gentlemen, the salaries are the only item here that is not exceeded and everything else is exceeded or not all, but you know what, and then the Presidency or the Proposer comes up with the idea that if a rebalancing is adopted, there will be no rebalancing, there will be no pay. I don't want to be put in that position, and I'm a delegate, and no one has the right to condition that way, but, of course, I'll talk more about it when it comes to rebalancing. So, I'm going to accept the report as it is, but I believe that these certain findings are not standing here and I find it necessary to highlight the responsibility of the Treasury institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1393	I thank Mr. Novaković. Jusufović answered the word. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1394	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable member of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, fellow delegates, since this point and the next one that will come to the agenda represent an organic whole and they are directly connected to each other, perhaps I will repeat some things, because I am thinking today quite actively to participate in each of these points, for quite understandable reasons. A colleague, Novaković, mentioned some things, was referring to a report like this. However, it seems to me to be public and present delegates, who are not members of the Commission for Budget and Finance, that, however, it would be right to mention some things, we who, in March or April, seem to be the same here that members of that commission were sitting in the Commission and making a budget, to say something about it, however. I don't want to be in a position to defend these BiH institutions, but to be correct, to say some things. In fact, at that point, we were aware of the Commission that the estimated costs were absolutely insufficient for everything that was planned, but as everywhere, those who lift their fingers, better said we, were in a position to act slightly more flexiblely towards the costs of the Assembly, but therefore the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, in that sharing of the missing total funds, went a little worse. So we were aware of the fact that these funds would not be sufficient for the joint institutions and for these reasons we proposed immediately to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to enter the rebalancing phase. Unfortunately, it didn't happen, it happens right now when you actually need to work on a new budget, but these are the facts and they are the truth. Is it possible in all of this and quite possible for all of these budget users, so both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the Assembly to be able to take an analytical view of each position and to establish that, probably there was, so to speak, irrational spending. However, it should take a little more time and all these users now to review it, but the fact is that we were aware that these funds were not enough for BiH institutions. On the side that some new institutions have emerged, which were not foreseen. I have to mention one more thing, which is also related to these later points. A sad one is the fact that BiH as a state has become a hostage, it has long been, but more and more at these points there is one reality, one resistance reality that it has become a hostage to the will of entity policies, so it is a question of how much it will be, what conditions are set and often blackmails, that in a certain way whether it will settle that binding part of the funds of state institutions. That's what's happening right now. I agree with counterpart Novaković, and we all meet the same these days with the question of employees as to whether it will be adopted rebalancing, whether it will not be adopted because there is no salary. If I'm well informed, then I've heard that in the Federation they've already divided not only the salaries but also some winters, etc. and some others, it is very unprincipled and incorrect to use such a position and put pressure not to say what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing, we will see it in these next points. So entity governments are putting direct pressure on BiH institutions to bring them into an enviable position. I wouldn't further spread this topic, because I'm going to continue it at these other points. It is very interesting, but I must say that BiH is as a state, here in the report is seen in the next points directly threatened. 63 She has become the most endangered, so to speak, the organism in this whole constitution of power, but I will move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1395	I thank Mr. Jusufović for his presentation. Mr. Nikola Špirić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1396	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, member of the Bureau, I will, of course, speak briefly about this agenda point. First of all, I think it's good that we have a report on the execution of the BiH institution in nine months. Oh, my God, if we had discussed this report earlier, we'd probably be more comfortable today, at least the time comms could talk about those agenda points that come behind this agenda point. I think these reports simply need to be discussed soberly in terms of finding some new solutions to better function BiH institutions, but also to draw attention to those representatives of the authorities who think that what was not appropriate to those before them that this type of commodity can provide for the parliamentary majority, even if what this report looks like. I wish by any chance this report was about last year, so if the current government were the opposition, here's just to give you back a year so you could see what kind of performance this would have been here and what an avalanche of accusations would have been brought down to power at that time. But I'm not gonna use that. I will only draw your attention to the table on the other side of the issue of the implementation of the budget for January-September 2000, the budget's revenues for this period and what is particularly indicative is that BiH's own revenues are less than 27%, which means that BiH has problems in that item and is worth considering whether they are unreally measured or something wrong with that sentence, and you know that no own income law has been passed and that they are not defined at all at BiH level. Another thing that was subdued by the entity's distribution. Here, it says here that the Federation has achieved its agreed participation in the first nine months, but RS at 97.7%. Oh, God, by the end of the year, the entity's 93.2% is here. It would be good if the realisation of entity obligations at the end of the year looked like this. I'm not convinced, because it seems to me that the material positions of those budgets are somewhat worse. And, uh, where we transferred the plan, that's donations. So this time, the international community was ready to cover one part of the financial... in BiH institutions, but unfortunately, at such a level that the revenue and expenditure sides could not be covered. Now if you look at the table on the 3rd page of the report on the implementation of the budget for January-by-institutional period, then you will see that there has been a breakthrough in the Presidency, the Constitutional Court of BiH, the Ministry of European Integration of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the State Border Service, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, etc. When you look at the items on which the breakthrough occurred, these are exactly the items on which, regardless of what the budgetary framework should be, there should be no breakthrough, because there has been no increase in the number of 64 employees in those services and in those ministries. It is easy to take over and continue at the same pace of spending and demand that the funds be settled from somewhere that they are not the product of the real growth of the social product either in entities or in BiH. There is almost no mechanism to determine whether the government is effective or not, if there is a possibility that these funds can be drawn into the budget in different ways. So, I'm so that when we last, remember, discussed a report from the office or the audit office, that it's good to come up with these reports for the previous years for the previous authorities, I insisted on a preventive audit. So, an audit that will indicate that errors are impossible to repeat, that they are inadmissible in the execution of the Bjet. It was logical when this government came to the scene that she said, gentlemen, we are making an unpopular move, and that's a move to spend as much as we have, and that's a sign that the salaries must be reduced, and that's a sign that there must be a ratification of the administration at all levels, and that's a sign that BiH can't stand 15 governments and 180 ministries. It would already look like a reform of the state's roar and I would have if there had been a breakthrough today to support such demands. And you know what happened? Let's keep spending like these pasts we're looking for years in prison for, and then we'll look for either an international community or someone else to cover our failures. I'm convinced that's not how it's gonna work, and now I'm going to show you that it's not good, and when it's not done, it's in accordance with what's planned. I'm going to show it to only one ministry that I may know something more about than the other ministries, which is the Human Rights Department. So, the deficit was achieved on the basis of employees' fees, travel expenses, representation costs, etc., but the refugee programme, therefore, was reached in nine months, which is the essence of the ministry with, behold, wonders of 0.41%. The question arises, if 3 million are planned and 9,218 KM implemented for the refugee programme, what does this body essentially mean at the level of the BiH state? Did he fulfill his goal? I don't want to criticize the ministry I've been in, I know the pain people face. I want to say it's not good when the budget isn't done as planned. I don't know what reason this is. But this is an unhappiness story. An unsettled message for refugees in BiH that the state ministry has succeeded in implementing them with 0.41% and that it has been breached everywhere. What does that mean? We funded the Ministry's administration. That administration is its goal and its own purpose. Gentlemen won't be able to do that. The citizens will not extend their hand to this execution of the Budget, because they have not felt the benefit of it. I am looking for and thinking of what is not good and what is unloved, and it is not popular, regardless of whether we have praised each other, we have talked about how beautiful we are, how Europe already suffers that we are not already with them, that we must actually burn. The international community's grades are not in vain that BiH is not creditworthy. It was not in vain that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers took the decision to put the moratorium to waste, but I don't think that's good. Moratorium was supposed to be placed on those institutions that broke through the budget for nine months, for those who didn't have to function and work. We can't share fate equal to everyone and everyone's guilty and not everyone's guilty, and that's why it's my conclusion that moratorium is placed on those who broke through. Those who are not, that they simply operate on these financial resources and that the Audit Office conducts a preventive audit where breakthroughs have been carried out. For what is not good, you will see in the budget's rebalancing of the budget is, precisely, the Office of Audit, not even a planned level, which means that these authorities are not responsible for the Office of Auditing doing its job, rather than allowing that office to be able to accommodate more people, who will be able to carry out preventive controls. We predicted a 200-65 300% increase in rebalancing everywhere, only that office was reduced by funds, so that it might not be able to control us, I don't have any other grades. I must tell you that for this report, the ministries of the last Council of Ministers are required to launch criminal responsibilities. I support it all, but it has to be for these gentlemen, too. The means of information in BiH cannot be fraught with how criminals ruled in the past term, and on the basis of these same reports today, they talk that this is an emergency. You know, they used to have too much to steal and spend. We found a little, so forgive us for breaking the budget. It won't work that way. No one will welcome it from the public in BiH and, therefore, I accept this report with two conclusions. First, the moratorium refers to those items that have been breached, and drugi, to carry out preventive control by the audit office, those institutions where budget breakthroughs have been recorded for the first nine months.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1397	Replica, incorrect quote, Mr. Džaferović. Three minutes and then we're actually taking a break, if there's no more lines for the jujum.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1398	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Špirić, you speak nicely only your actions are completely contrary to the proclaims. It is sad, therefore, that the budget in the matter of refugees is only 0.41%, but you are a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Peoples, and this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, following the decision of this BiH House of Representatives, made a journey through the Danube 56 times in the course of this year, 56 delegations each week, one and more abroad. 176 people among whom some have repeated themselves have travelled abroad, so one daily. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has broken through this report on the implementation of the budget of travel expenses by 192.07%, refugees 0.4 and parliamentary assembly of the 192.07 delegation and spent 275,962.18 KM on a trip abroad. The other travel expenses are up to 388,000, so two-thirds for travel abroad and one-third for the rest of the commissions and what else is needed here in the Assembly and don't do Mr. Špirić, I really am asking you, if I hadn't listened to my ears about what you're talking about, I could hardly believe that someone was trying to convince me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1399	Of course, Mr. Špirić has an immediate replica, but I would ask you to keep an eye on that at 15 to 12.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1400	Ladies and gentlemen, you can listen to your eyes and ears all of this is allowed. I have the right, of course, to have my own vision and I do not have the right to dispute this about breaking the travel costs that Džaferović is talking about and I do not think that they should be invoiced by Nikola Špirić. I want to say wherever it is, and so I said breaking and entering should put moratorium on such behaviour, but I don't think this story 66 Jaferovic can cover this get that concerns refugees. So, you can't just fax it to Nikola Špirić and it's not fair, and everything else I accept people talking about. If Nikola Špirić spent 198,000 on travels, 275,000 Nikola Špirić, I am ready to return them, if I have spent it. It is the journey of parliamentary delegations that I think were necessary and necessary, and if you would gather my participation in it, it would probably be among the smaller or wherever Mr Džaferović is. We have to have the same principle. So wherever there are irrational breakthroughs, they are applied to the same arches and I suggest that Jaferovic include both ears and eyes. You know, when two people heard it in a row, then you get half the information and you stay on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1401	Sure, if you're going to delay the juma for the replica, go ahead. You asked for a break of 15 to 12 please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1402	Don't worry about the jumble, Mr. Tokić. We won't be putting it off for another 16-17 minutes. Mr Špirić, therefore, I can see well thank Bog and my ears very well and I hear those two in coordination, it is synchronised, and I advise you when you talk about the moratorium so that you can be correct and put the moratorium first on your behaviour and behaviour of the other members of the College and on the fact that this country with the budget as it is does does not need 56 delegations to go abroad and 176 people. Please submit a report to the public that the benefit of the BiH state has from the 56 delegations that were outside. I'm not saying there's no use, but there's no use in 56 delegations and 176 people and put a moratorium on your behavior first and then on everyone else's behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1403	Mr. Šimić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1404	I'm very pleased with the work and cooperation in the College, but when it comes to individual discussions, not to mention the calculations, please don't subscribe to the general directory of the College. You're it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1405	Business intervention, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1406	During this break that will follow, I would ask to be provided with an answer. Why is this session scheduled today? Why was the Administrative Commission only in session yesterday? Why is the report by the Administrative Commission on the budget spending report only delivered this morning in a way that we are in a position not to respect the Rules of Procedure. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1407	I'd answer right now. This session today is the decision of the House of Peoples from last session that set deadlines, short deadlines 15 plus 7 and this is the consequence of the House's decision, and this about the material obviously doesn't work well. I must tell you that at the moment in the House of People's Service, no secretary of the committee has functioned in this week, that our secretary of the House had a death case, that we were not filled in, which is actually a request to be filled out as soon as possible. This is just an address, because I'd be a big boss too, if I didn't say the biggest here I could hit a review on the Service, but there really aren't enough people working on those jobs, but I certainly believe that these papers will be found for you. If it hadn't been for the public's comment on these trips, I think a material has been delivered on all travels parliamentary and I would have concluded that it is about the travels that have been submitted on foreign affairs committees and should be seen selectively about whether there is something problematic. The media said a lot about the trip to Cuba, Burke's Faso. I would say it is the obligations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is also believed that the next third trip of the Interparliamentary delegation will be in some media exotic place. Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BiH Parliament have four permanent parliamentary delegations. That is, the Central European Initiative, the Council of Europe, the Interparliamentary Union, and the OSCE and these trips must go and should be taken. As for bilateral meetings, I think it's a good thing that these bilateral meetings are taking place and we can open a debate at all on parliamentary diplomacy, but that's not the point of this agenda. I'm sorry to interrupt. A little replica, Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1408	I apologize, I want to say to the public that a parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe has worked its journey so far in the arrangement and on the costs of the Council of Europe and I want to make a crackdown on that report and other delegations. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1409	Okay. I thank all who have made a very constructive contribution to topics that have not been points of order. Is it possible to adopt this report or have it registered for discussion? We'll continue at 1 o'clock. We're late for the session. [[PAUZA]] The implementation of the agenda point is under way, Mr Ilić, the agenda item is the report on the expenditures of BiH institutions and international obligations in the first nine months. We stopped at a time when no one was registered for discussion except that, Mr. Genjac and Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1410	Dear colleagues, I have asked quite carefully before this break why we were brought into a situation that on such an important issue as the report on the execution of Budget 68 and the rebalancing of the Budget we put into a situation to violate the Rules of Procedure by considering these points. I got an answer that the secretary died from her mother and that's why the reports weren't delivered, etc. I think it's immoral.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1411	I'd like to ask you, fellow Genjac, if you have any problems with your business life, we can make that clear, but you've called for a discussion on the Budget. I would remind you, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and I would ask you to record exactly where the Rules of Procedure was violated from the point of view of the debate. On the contrary, we have all followed the procedure and carried through the home as it imposed on you and do not instrumentate that kind of statement for daily political purposes. If you want to react in a business manner, you can, if you want to discuss, but you need to specify. Is it a discussion or a business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1412	Thank you. This is a discussion, and the discussion on the Implementation of Budgets implies a report by the Administrative Commission on the execution of the Budget, which should be sent to Members in time, which was not delivered on time, and which is why I was put in a position to discuss such an important document, not knowing the large elements important to a quality discussion. So, all of what the participants in the government, who are the current authorities, have said today about the execution of the Budget, of course, is so illustrative and so accurate and so clearly said that I have no intention of repeating it at all. However, it is amoral that everything that is established in the Budget in the Implementation of Budgets is established and stated, and then said that this report should be adopted, and where the moratorium has been violated. So, what's spent, spent on not spending any more time without us adopting the report. So I won't repeat the elements of the report on the execution of the Budget what has already been said and what I hope is very clearly understood about it. I will focus on the Report on the Parliamentary Assembly, since we are the ones who are considering the Budget and who should set an example and since we are the ones who set up the Treasury, which we have so soundly discussed here, especially from the point of view of the opposition, the violation of the Budget on Crimes, etc. Something some called, when they were opposition to crime, is now called the Budget Rebalancing and is now called a different dictionary. Everything that's about Budget should be called the same when you're opposition and when you're in position. If you pay attention to the report on the spending of funds in the Parliamentary Assembly, you can see that travel costs are exceeded by 192%, that the costs of the team are at the volume of 115%, therefore exceeded, that the work contracts are exceeded by 158%, the remaining obligations are 190%. Payments are 74% of planned. So, the work contracts are, in the amount of 158%, 58% more than planned and we got the material because the secretary died from a mother, whom I am sympathising and, besides a large number of lawyers, we didn't get an adviser because of that fact report. 69 At the House of Representatives, I consider the report 30.11. In the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, there is a regulated way for the House to adopt both Budget and Budget Report after the House of Representatives. This is not respected, as members of the House of Representatives and the House of Nations meet only on travel abroad. We need to look at the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and see how that provision was rebgulised and I don't think we had a session earlier because it was planned and because it was a death case, but I don't think we had a session because, according to the report we received, the chairman of the House of Peoples was in Paris from 1.12. to 7.12. From 6.12. to 9.12. in Bucharest and from 16.12. and 17.12. in Zagreb. On the other hand, what's seen here is that the man was in two places the same day. So the 7th was both in Bucharest and Paris, so I can't understand that, but that's what the report says. That's why we haven't had this people's home session before, and that's why we've been put in a position to tell Parliamentarians that they can't get paid because the budget hasn't been adopted, regardless of the pay item hasn't been breached, which is why we've been brought into the situation to say that pensions are also due to it and that's why we've been put in a position so quickly trying to talk about something that's so important. The second thing you see in the Budget Report is, the item of travel expenses that has been breached 92% and realised in the range of 192%. I remind you, several times throughout the year, we've been asking a parliamentary question about who's been traveling, how much it cost and who decides to travel. Two days ago, a table was made up which one was where he traveled and how much it cost. We haven't agreed after four months who decided to travel. And it is very important to know who decided to travel, because it is an abuse of the position of gentlemen, because the item is provided for travel expenses, because 270,000 were planned for travel expenses and it was only spent until the beginning of the 12th month for travel abroad that 276,000 marks were spent because the total item for travel costs was broken twice. That's why it's important to determine who decided who decided to travel. That's why it's important that we talk in the House of Peoples about our respect for the Budget so that we can talk. On their own, those who traveled decided to travel. I was really trying to find out who decided. The Foreign Affairs Commission has decided on one or two occasions. I asked the members of the College who decided, and they were fenced on it. On his chance, he decided who was traveling and who was traveling, I will remind you only a little from this table, to see the richness of this vivid atmosphere in parliamentary delegations, let's say the chairman of our home, from the reports we received, which, of course, is related to the respect of Budget and the report on the execution of Budget, he traveled to Havana, Dubrovnik, France to Strasbourg in the delegation to Kuwait and Belgrade, then to Georgia Bilsa, then to the French Strazburg delegation, and then to France Paris, and afterwards to Norway Oslo, and then again to Paris after that in Bucharest, and then to Zagreb afterwards, etc. So, please, after the trip to Havana, Mr Tokić, as a member of the delegation, made a public statement that our delegation's trip to Havana was very disorganised, that the performance was very disorganised and that no benefit from that trip was achieved. That trip cost 32,000 marks. The fact that nothing was achieved, which was very disorganised and that nothing was done, cost budget bonds 32,000 marks. Now, gentlemen, we are required by the rebalancing of the Budget and by the report of this Budget to accept the violation of these items and these travels and violations of those items to accept. Gentlemen, in the situation when we saw how far the refugee program has been accomplished, I think that would be immoral. Therefore, I will vote against this report on the execution of the Budget, and I propose that the constitutional polling committee of the House of Nations, which will determine who decided to travel on this many trips and abuses of office, break the budget item for the purpose of official travel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1413	I thank you for a very decadent professional, correct debate on a subject called the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations, only a few responses related to the business procedure. There's the president of the board of directors. You all got on the table, only if it didn't happen, possibly that you didn't get a report from that commission about the execution of the budget, but I assume the president is ready to answer the questions concerning this report and the Commission's views on this report. As for the session schedule, unlike all previous periods, the House of Peoples meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly are planned several months earlier and we must remind you that this session is planned even in early October of the month when all the delegates received the appointments by the end of the year. So any malignancy related to the session's appointment is not true. We adhere to regular sessions, as agreed and planned at the College three or four months ago. Of course, as far as these trips are concerned, I would no longer like to speak, I would point out only for the public and for all, the obligations of the chairman of the delegations in the Council of Europe, as well as the members of the delegation, mean 40 at least days abroad to be quite clear and chaired by members of the Committee for at least 15 or 20 days. It is something that BiH is committed to in terms of action in the Council of Europe. But Mr. Genjac's favorite theme will probably continue. I would like us to return to the agenda points and just talk about that the Parliamentary Assembly, although I do not have any responsibility from the aspect of finance in the Parliamentary Assembly, to be quite clear, neither legally nor commercially, the Parliamentary Assembly has breached its costs and it is one of the few institutions that has not broken through. There are scales in certain items. Yesterday's Commission conclusion, the Administrative Financial Commission reached an agreement on the resolution of the situation from the aspect of the item. The following word came from Mr Spahić or Ilić. Ilić pa Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1414	Mr. Pedestrian, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, it is difficult to decide today on an important topic such as the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institution, just before the end of the financial year. It is also known how we adopted the budget for this year and I'm afraid that here we still have no indication of the Budget's plan for the next 71 years that we will be in the same problems at the end of the next financial year. But maybe, these numbers that are being displayed here today, and this data should be an alarm so that similar things don't happen again for the next financial year. A team before some of the items we've had so far will unfortunately not be possible on the revenue side for next year, such as donations or concession funds. We can see that here the income deficit is 4.259.0 and that the cost increase relative to the planned was almost 2,945,999 marks. So, out of this, we should all learn to first assess how to settle these differences, and especially in planning for next year, think about whether it is possible for BiH citizens to maintain the tax bonds that are now in BiH. I think it will be the task of all parties of parliament and of us delegates and MPs both in the cantonal assemblies and in the entity assemblies and in the State Parliament. Here, from the proposings, they say they only have two ways to overcome this problem, which is that expenditures per budget user are consistent with revenues or that funds are raised from somewhere. There's also a suggestion here that a part of the funds should be increased. I'm not sure I could stand behind such a proposed way of settling those funds. However, when some information is presented here on how far the item is exceeded and here, when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly, it is mentioned that the rapping was high on travel costs. Since I am the chairman of the foreign-political committee, i.e. the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of this home, some delegates are asking who decided on these trips. I have to say that at least this foreign-political committee has been consulted, which, I think, should have some important place in this business. I made one of the short statistics from this report we got, so it's interesting to make that out. Of the 178 people travelling on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly, only 45 plus 2 were from this home secretary. From that Kolegijum he traveled 25 times. Tokić 12 – Šimić 7 and Špirić 6. According to clubs 13 Serbian delegates and 16 delegates of the other two peoples, the other two clubs, only Džaferović, I apologize both Mr. Novaković and Rodić did not travel from delegates Ilić and Ivanković to one, Spahić once and Genjac once. There's two or three left. So here, so there wouldn't be speculation, weave the appearance of statistics.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1415	I would ask, not wanting to disrupt that paper was delivered to all journalists and everyone to return to the agenda. Let's just get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1416	I'm done. I just wanted to break this controversy between whether or not it was meant to be who and how much, so the statistics say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1417	Mr. Spahić, please. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1418	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen and others present at this very interesting item of the agenda. The point is that in politics when you are an opposition, you have the right to seek, of course, the revision of the budget, or the rebalancing of space, so that you can act on the position. This has been happening in this parliament over the past years and, of course, the strongest opposition has been seeking, regardless of who was in the opposition in power, has always sought motive to really clarify in the best possible way about the character of a country's government, in this case BiH. This character of the government might come down to the next one. If you compare all the institutions and what are the declarative positions of the heads of these institutions, whether it is the chairman of us, the chairperson, co-chair, vice-presidents, ministers, directors and their deputies, you will see that their effective positions of political and declaration are in disproportionate proportion to what they are doing. They work very precisely and they do very well in this job. This is just the tip of an ice dream in BiH. Last night I listened to reports via television, a Serbian Radio-Television in which the prime minister of the RS assures us that it is all over for pensioners to count on Monday to start paying out pensions just so that this home of the people is finished today, I suppose he thinks of the BiH House of Peoples, he did not say BiH told the House of Peoples. I thought he was introduced in the meantime to the people's home in RS, so I asked when it happened, because I was on a journey in the meantime, so I didn't follow it. However, it is not, obviously, the House of the Peoples of BiH, so I suppose it implies, here are his colleagues and friends of the pre-war know that he can well express the interests of citizens as an economist, he gives a very precise interpretation of which it will go with dynamics. When you analyse Prime Minister Mladen Ivanić's statement and subsequent statements by other officials, such as pension funds and others, you see that in fact everyone expects the BiH House of Peoples to resolve the pension problem in RS and other Federation users who count on the job to be resolved. But you don't have to go far. You get into this building, that's what the people who work in this building expect. People who have salaries of 400 – 500 marks, maybe less or around those funds and who are waiting, too, a month, here is today 21 they absolutely ask the delegates, the sleeve wolf slowly and say, you know, can we charge those 400 – 500 marks, because we are waiting for the House of the Peoples of BiH. So you can see that the House of People of BiH has one vital national interest, indeed, that there exists when it comes to the citizens of the RS and the Federation and the pensioners and the employees of the administration of this Parliament, among the 95 people standing here from the porters, when it comes to the House of Peoples and to some other services to the Minister of the Treasury, who is our most concerned man today, probably because he has to sign those decisions on rebalancing and create spaces to make it all fine by one classical principle, which, when I asked how and what criteria are respected, on a certain issue, I am told that it was done in a classic way, agreed, as it is otherwise done. We agreed that, and that's the criteria of the deal, so then we turned it into numbers. So as agreed, then we said that it would all be settled once the House of Peoples has resolved the national interest of BiH, to reconcile all future consumption of different levels. 73 So that is the essence of politics in BiH. It's no longer a question of whether someone got 102 or 165 that's the ratio between Parliament and I don't know and some of these institutions, I can't register now, I don't want to nominate anyone here, but on average it's 155% as much as I've seen something. You know, why did I take my word for it? I didn't answer for the trip, because then I would have to explain why I was both the head of delegation and translator, the secretary of that delegation, and why, for example, There is, for example, a line of these sizes among us that we have six – seven people going from both colleges, that I also be self-critical in visiting one of the presidents of one Parliament, who has one face, one name and one name, so I would like to say for rationalization the following. In the future, it would be good if, with full national trust and consensus from Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and other national minorities and citizens, a brother travels from both colleges and we all believe him to file a report to say what he did, to bring an interpreter and bodyguard as well as to say which job he did.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1419	Your Honor, I don't want...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1420	Let me just get to the paper problem. So, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1421	The President's intervention. I didn't want to interrupt, but I warn you that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of each person who uses this item of the agenda to talk about topics that have nothing to do with this agenda point, I will warn and take away the word. That's why, one hour, it's because of the efficiency of the work. If necessary, we can open the agenda, the Rules of Procedure, and I don't know what, but at this point in the agenda, we'll respect it. I'm going back and warning you on time you're scheduled.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1422	We're going back to the subject of our work. The subject of our work is, as is well known, budget spending and trying to cover that consumption in the most elegant way that this is meant in modern and every other democracy rebalancing. This object of work implies every kind of consumption and name of the other and this, most of all, is the case. However, it is not the subject of our journey externally but the subject of my interest why we objectively do not have the House of Peoples today an overrun for not one millimeter or a single stamp of travel from BiH's delegates to BiH. That's what got me the most worried, and that's why I answered. This is what bothers me that the representatives of the people do not have a factually serious treatment and program, I would say my own, we all, together, have not, in particular, made a program by which we would, in truth, contact the voters with the people and create some insights, so that simply, perhaps through television, I would not have this experience of our budget and our debate, but would have it as originally as we have in Parliament. I, by the way, often travel around this country and I don't have these problems, but I'm sorry that we don't have a programme of BiH tours along and across, because we represent Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and all citizens in this context at the country level. So I suggest we take a lesson in this and not make a big drama out of it. 74 As for mandatory travel, I believe that they are mandatory and that people need to travel and all the happiness that there is parliamentary diplomacy, otherwise we would be condemned later to get answers that we do not know why it is when and how someone has traveled and we are not informed of what we receive daily answers when it comes to executive authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1423	Warning. It's not about travel.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1424	Yes, and I want the subject of things all the time. In fact, the object of the matter is that we are dealing with an agreed economy, that it wasn't a good plan for us, so we have a budget breach, and that's why I'm suggesting a conclusion. That Mr. Treasury, which is the most responsible person in BiH for this area, and that is why we have set it up to ensure that, in the coming year, budget planning is as rational as possible, that we do not get into this situation, and drugi, I would also like to say that I think it is good that, too, I have talked about it on the first item of the agenda of procedures among BiH institutions. I can't, I can't, I can't think about things on camera like this. Normally, the entire budget involves all BiH institutions. I underline, we should have a lot more state institutions as a country, it should have been much more organised this structure in that sense, and I would suggest that this report be adopted with great enthusiasm that the Minister of Treasury, who is a short time at the job, will be able to convince us that in 2002 the year will be more rational, more responsible, that they will now monitor the real cost of spending and that the pensioners do not have to wait with impatience for his...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1425	Thank you. Indeed, I pray for at least the level of seriousness towards the subject and the home in which you act. Is anyone else answering for word? I'd like to ask Mr. Minister Džaferović for more discussion, and then we'll do it. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1426	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the current part of the debate on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH, it was mainly discussed how funds were spent. It's been told a lot about that. The competent authorities are likely to address the issue. Probably those who spent their resources, in a way contrary to the Budget, will learn from all this. I won't talk about it anymore at this point in my discussion. I want to point out one thing, which, in my court, is very serious at this point if BiH is not the most serious if it is and when this report is in front of us. On page 3, of this report, in section 1. The analysis of the results of the revenue suggests that it is clear that no planned revenue has been achieved in the observed period, both by size and by structure. It is true that the biggest incursion is recorded in 75 groups of own incomes, then, that in this year we are faced with untimely and insufficient revenues from entities, that donations and other incomes are reduced. So for me, the key problem is the issue of the original revenues of the BiH state. Only if we provide the BiH state with original revenues, I think in the next period, when funding is the BiH institutions, there will be no problem or there will be much less than there are now. For this reason, I propose, I asked the Council of Ministers a delegate question yesterday, and the BiH presidency has on several occasions launched initiatives to deliver legislation in the parliamentary procedure that will settle the issue of BiH's original incomes. There's no law so far. I propose that on this issue we, as a home, express such a necessary unity and, in one conclusion, a single, therefore, here in the House, make a commitment to the Council of Ministers and in this way, I am sure and help the Council of Ministers to deliver a law in the parliamentary procedure that will regulate the issue of the original incomes of the BiH state. In this way, we would resolve many dilemmas on the right issue, when the BiH state is in question or Wednesdays would show unity exactly as Mr. Tokić says when the delegation was in Strasbourg where it showed unity at the session. This is a question on which we should express such a necessary unity and I suggest that today the House vote on this conclusion of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1427	I'm thanking you. Is anyone else answering for word? I'm closing the hearing on the report. I ask the envoys - delegates to join the plea, related to the report on the implementation of the BiH Budget and the international obligations of BiH. Who's in favor of adopting this report? - Who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? - I'm konstatovati the report got the required majority. Please vote on the entities. The secretary reported no need for entities. I find that by simple majority
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1428	Is there or isn't there? How much was it for and how much against?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1429	6 – for a 2 against. No one is pressured from the RS entity. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1430	I ask that the vote be repeated. In other words, I have a right to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1431	The first vice-president is asking for a re-election. So we are voting on the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations. Here's the consultation between our esteemed lawyers, and that's how it really is. All Dom decisions are made in a way to check the entity majority. 76 I'd like to ask you from the Federation, who is the adoption of the Budget Implementation Report? - I konstatovati that there is a necessary entity majority from the Federation for the adoption of the Budget Implementation Report. From RS who's in favour? - usaglašavanje. I would literally ask you to stay in your seats for just two minutes. No consent has been reached in the College, although much has been sought at this agreement. Please from RS who's against? The report didn't go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1432	They need two-thirds against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1433	Let's do it again. From the RS who's against? 3 So the report has passed, for it takes two thirds to be against in the second round after the statement. We're going to the next item on the agenda. I would ask that, in this agenda point, after the conclusion, we do not declare our conclusions. Your conclusion to my colleague Džaferović, who, I will abuse this pay phone, I support. It makes more sense to me when we talk about budget rebalancing, since this is the Budget's Implementation Report. Okay. I would ask the House to come forward, if the House is prepared within this item of the agenda, that, apart from the adopted report, we declare ourselves individually on the conclusions. Any other conclusions? Let me run the session. Does Dom want us to declare ourselves individually about all the conclusions that have been made in this debate? Who's in? Who's against it? I find that, most of the votes, the Dom's conclusion on his work, has defined that he will not declare the proposed conclusions on this agenda point. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1434	Dear colleagues, for collegiate reasons, I call upon my fellow delegates not to observe this cold-blooded violence against the Rules of Procedure. Every motion by the delegates is equal and must be put to the vote. There is no statement on whether to put something to the vote or not. Please, I'm warning you. Of course, that's how it is, I'm here in the minority, there's an address at which you'll get an explanation. It's a business intervention. 77 Another business intervention, in the same way that it is now done, was the first cartoon of the Poslovnfik in a way that interpreted the wrong way of voting. I have warned you twice don't do this, because in the second round of voting you see the number of delegates elected from territory and a third of it. In addition to my warning, the secretary interpreted most of the people present. I've received a legal interpretation of the OHR in which it decadently stands. The legal interpretation of OHR delivered by the management of the College and all members of the Colleges earlier and on the question that the decadent way of voting and in the interpretation of the OHR is stated that the interpretation refers to the vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. Since this constitutional provision equally applies to both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, this opinion is sent to the heads of the House of Peoples. So it says the following. Analysis of Article 4. The constitution begins when the quorum begins. So to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1435	I'd like to ask you, indeed, business intervention takes three minutes. It's already been three minutes. If it doesn't work, we can share that material. Yesterday's debate is over. You have instruments of anything, so you mention this OHR and I don't know who you're talking about. We talked about it a lot yesterday, and I'd like to ask you to come back to the scene because it's past the deadline for business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1436	So, I've had two business interventions, one about this, and this is the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1437	There are no two business interventions. Please return to your seat.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1438	If the secretary doesn't give the interpretation in the first place, I'll be asking for the secretary's shift.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1439	Okay. Please return to your seat. I hereby conclude the debate, only in response to the business intervention would I point out, therefore, that I am concluding the agenda point, only in answer would I say that it clearly states in the Rules of Procedure that everything, all questions from the work of the House, the House can be defined by its conclusion. If it is possible to define, by way of its conclusion, that certain proposals made by the MPs are also made here, i.e. the delegate declares himself at other points of the agenda, which is very clear in the Rules of Procedure. I thank all those who are in good interest to honor the Rules of Procedure have come forward here. 78 We move to the next item of the agenda. 17. The law on the purpose and use of the property that BiH receives under the Agreement on Sucession in the Banca for International Alignment in Basel – first reading – the proposal of the Council of Ministers First we have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded, in accordance with Article 90. You've received a report from the committee in charge. I would only remind you that there is a mistake in the name of the text of the law, the official name of the law is as I have read. Whoever answers the word is involved in the first reading of the debate and the principles. Does the proposal of the Council of Ministers want to keep the law, talk about the law? The Honorable Minister, Mr. Ante Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1440	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bureau member, the esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the High House's representatives, the Council of Ministers, within the framework of the Programme for Realisation of the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues, which was concluded in June in Vienna, dedicated a significant emphasis on the problem of the use of assets, which was obtained under the agreement. In the first version, the idea was to include, through a legal project, only assets available in the Bank for International Alignment and which is therefore available for BiH and in subsequent discussions it was decided to include total assets in the bill. So to add the property BiH will receive from the account of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which is being run by the negotiation, negotiation process and estimated at around 130 million. So the total bill covers 281 million marks. In the very purpose, i.e. in the very nature of this property, it is treated as property that BiH received through a succession, as one of the successor countries, the successor of the former SFRY. However, in the very proposal for the purpose and use of this property, we have come from several criteria, which are explicitly presented here in response to the parliamentary question, asked by MP Mr Spahić, so I would not like to engage in their broader reasoning. I would say, once upon a time, that we had the first criterion that we had treated the means of succession as one integral part of the legacy package of the former Yugoslavia, in which obligations dominate. So, the passports that BiH has taken over through external debt, which exceeds 1.9 billion at a time when it was the subject of negotiations on the Paris and London Club and which is, therefore, a heavy commitment and burden that BiH should bear over the next few decades. So, this property is only 7% of that debt and it shouldn't be politically or economically painful that it's the legacy some have left behind and that it's pure activity, but it's just one small part of the property against the huge amount of liabilities we inherited from the former Yugoslavia. The second criterion was to remove from these funds the obligations that BiH, either at entity or state level had and the third criterion was, but not the last development criterion to try to achieve more favourable developmental effects from these funds. 79 I must say, in the preparation of this law, we had a broad discussion. It was a public discussion and discussion within international institutions. We had the most intense discussion with the IMF, which had its classical monetaryist approach and suggested that, practically, all these funds be geared towards the reconciliation of the old obligations of BiH, primarily stressing the commitments made on the basis of old foreign currency savings. Of course, by supporting this second criterion to meet the obligations that exist in the budgets and entities and the state of BiH. We also had, of course, a particularly intense alignment within the entity and the finale we achieved at the coordination body for economic development and European integration, which practically ensured that at this inter-entity and inter-state level we had one high degree of consistency of this project. I think it is, and I would like to point out the Council of Ministers' position that this proposal is an optimum ahead of you. It's an optimum between very different, sometimes, extremely conflicting demands, an optimum in economic terms, so that ensures that practically all three of our criteria are implemented integrally. However, I must say with pleasure that 74% of these funds are being channelled into development and that this may be the most valuable thing in this proposal. 26% of the funds go towards the reconciliation of old obligations, but I have to say that we are in a normal life in a situation, when there is a house behind someone, but with a mortgage that far exceeds its value, so in this case, and I think that in that sense and the obligations that we have gone on to settle should be viewed as one radional and sustainable proposal. I must say that these proposals for the reconciliation of old obligations will create a much more favourable situation in both the BiH institutions and the entity budgets. So, in practice, allowing public finances to be much more orderly in many ways, one part of these obligations to settle, and as regards old foreign savings, remains the ultimate solution of public debt, and I think it is a rational suggestion that we should first try to make these assets available in a developmental sense to some income, and then create opportunities for, increased opportunities and for public debt to contribute, through public debt, to the reconciliation of this obligation to citizens of the old foreign savings that BiH must provide in every sense. That is, to say the essence of this proposal and in the form that it has been delivered to you in the consolidated text, it has been adopted in the House of Representatives and we support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1441	I thank Minister Domazet. Any questions for Mr. Domahet? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Dear envoy Munib Jusufović came to the floor. Here you go. So, we're having a discussion about the general, the principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1442	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this issue certainly deserves special attention, as it paints in a certain way a single overall political reality on BiH territory. On this issue, and we will see all those realities and the political 80 differences that exist in certain political circles of BiH or rather, this issue illustrates the true relationship towards BiH as a state. When it comes to this conflict law, short for me to say so, or about the criteria for the distribution of funds under this law, then I noticed that there are, on occasion, three tendencies in terms of the distribution of funds or three groups. So I say approach, how to spend these funds, this legacy. One tends to go in that direction, which would divide all this legacy into entities. It certainly makes a logical conclusion that it is the tendency that denies BiH or would want BiH and its institutions to be gone. The second trend is that, out of opportunity, this compromise, I think it has also accepted the Council of Ministers, that it should satisfy one and the other, so in a certain way give, leave something to BiH as a state, and under political pressure and other blackmails give one part to the current consumption of entities. The third tendency exists, or is present, which in my opinion is the only legitimate, legal, legitimate and correct, to remind what the distinguished minister said, and I absolutely agree, the only legal and legitimate heir to this legacy is BiH. Because this all came out later. Of course, I wouldn't remain misunderstood, I believe that from these means, given that certain obligations have moved on to entities, that these funds should, in this way, have been settled, means already commitments and entities taken over. But all the funds belong to BiH as a state. It, or its bodies, is the Council of Ministers, then to establish the way and criteria of that distribution. What would make sense to me? Or, rather, to say right away, it doesn't make sense. It's not logical to make such a suggestion that something that's been created, that generations have created and that's a legacy, that in a certain way it eats on the class, eats the substance, and eats through liquid consumption. I am aware and we are all living aware that the issue of legacy is a very complex issue and that it needs complex and approach, but it is illogical, if we have in mind one real economic reality as it is in BiH unemployment, misery, we remember and only remember, if we don't see it then let's go through some of these days, nights or even at night along the lines of these embassies from Europeans, so you will see these lines of youth and people who wait all night for some numbers. We would have to bear in mind that these funds that, here, this church girl that has been acquired, which is something left to focus precisely on because of these people and those generations for the future, which means what remains after the reconciliation of the commitments, which the state has taken over, should be directed into development projects. It can be done in many ways. If we remember that she was, and I don't know where she came from, but here's just such an ad-hoc to remember some information about the loading of public works, or some auto-road corridor companies, this 5-C, wasn't this a good idea to open public works, where there would be significant employment and employment of a large number of companies, where in a certain way these funds would serve their purpose, it would be investment in the future. Unfortunately, the easiest thing to eat is in class. I understand both the position and the position and the position of both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency that they were valued this time I have to use the term, it's my understanding of the entity governments or, in particular, what Mr Spahić earlier seems to mention to me what he was listening to last night, it's known to us that these funds are already being deployed and that it's just waiting here to vote, better said to be spent on class or that these means of succession, will better be served to maintain the failed authorities on the political scene. But unfortunately, that's ours for real. I certainly do not belong to the category of people as a representative of the Party for BiH, and the name itself speaks of succumbing to blackmail and ultimatums. Therefore, I also see in this the responsibility of both the Presidency and the Minsitarian Council that we should go out to the public once and clearly say who these brakers who blackmail BiH institutions are are simply giving me the publicity once. If it's going to come to blocking all institutions, then we don't need to keep our mouth shut, we need to stop all the work once and see how it turns out. That's what I see. All I see is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. In this way, my discussion is in favour of just opening up some more of the issues that have already been mentioned here, which is the question of obtaining original income. It cannot be the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers, that is better said, in my opinion, the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because that is how I see it, or I want to see the Presidency. They can't depend on the will of certain powers in entities, so often times threats. It depends on the goodwill of whether to transfer some funds to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then now there is no pay for breaking these days because here we are allegedly discussing here in the House, although in some entities these salaries have already been distributed. When we mention the original revenues immediately to continue, the aim is to have my debates serious one question, and therefore I mention both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to be allowed in and before the public to come forward in the future to open these issues and now I also support that proposal from my colleague Džaferović's conclusion, and I have marked it here, that, in that point, whether at the next point for rebalancing, or within the framework of this commitment, given the expected way of voting, we should see if we will go in the same direction, when we want our own funds, and otherwise we will not get there. Well, maybe there'd be a chance in this one, let's see how we plead. So I suggest leaving a relatively short deadline for the Council of Ministers to pass a law on income belonging, rather on original incomes. Is it logical that if you see, here is the report on the implementation of the budget where the border service which is here is the budgetary consumer of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is under the authority of the Council of Ministers, and that the sources from customs, that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state does not have a single mark at all? It is, if it is a state, and it is, then it needs from customs to make the law so that it has a share in these revenues, and there are a number of other ways to gain original income. In a certain way, she breathed, not to depend constantly on some kind of will and daily politics. I may be one of the few about that first point, I think what the rebalancing is about, although I have talked about it a little bit, here in the follow-up that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina predicted little funding, because they needed more. Why more?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1443	I would beg you the subject is the Law on concessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1444	Yeah, it's all tied up. So these three questions, before this and this, are hard to get away without me coming back. When I say this now that she should have predicted more for the reason again, it's also about the Law of Successions. That the state can function normally with all its organs, not that it gives for the current consumption of entities. So this is her income, and that's why she should've... it all has to do with her. 82 My answer shall I vote in favour of this law, that is, the proposal is clear: I will not vote. I'm not voting for any clear reasons. I will not succumb, I do not succumb to the ultimatums that blackmail the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So they have to go out to the deleted space sometime. I am giving absolute support to both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to make every effort, first of all to animated all organisations and the public in order to expose the forces that are blocking and blocking it and to commit it in a certain way, means, first of all, the Council of Ministers, the appropriate ministries to come out with a proposal to create a normal state, means to create original revenues. For starters, it's possible that I'm going to be involved, it's still mine, it's my proposal and my findings and my assessment, and the main objection is why the funds were not going into development projects after the settled state commitment. I don't think there's much to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1445	Thank you. The word was received by Mr. Novaković, then Tokić, then the Turjačanin, then Džaferović. Is it a replica or a discussion? Here you go. Well, Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1446	Dear colleagues, I came out only to replicate the two findings expressed here in Mr. Munib Jusufović's discussion, which I think is the least said that do not stand. First, when it comes to three options here presented in the Law on Short Concession, one will repeat that denying the existence of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a requirement means that all funds are shared with entities, another is compromised as Mr Munib, who was proposed by the Council of Ministers and third rights and realistic that says the funds should belong to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask, gentlemen, is Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Isn't this the right of Mr. Munib Jusufović to deny the existence of the entity. My second replica refers to the finding that there is no salary here because entities did not give money, or that entities conditioned that I was told the Council of Ministers, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Gentlemen, these people don't have money because they spent more than others are supposed to, not because someone didn't give the money from the entity with full respect that Republika Srpska needed and had to give them 944, or 404, how much more 404 it goes, how much it belongs to it. Don't replace the thesis and don't let us solve any other problems on this issue and open up and open up any other problems that are no place for this speaker today, and this agenda doesn't ask for it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1447	The replica has Mr. Jusufović, is it a replica or something? It's just a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1448	I can also replicate my colleagues to Novaković, and possibly I will respond. Bosnia and Herzegovina me and my party and my option include Bosnia and Herzegovina within the limits of what they are. If you and your colleague, Novaković, and your option, have been told by 83 that you call it the Republic or the Republic of Serbia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is your understanding. And I, when I was talking about development projects, then I mean development projects, but to be the regulator of the Council of Ministers for the whole area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore also for the Federation and the Republic of Serbia according to priorities... but to be the regulator, not to condition them to the governments of the entity. Therefore, it is clear that I mean Bosnia and Herzegovina within those borders, if you would like to say the same thing to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1449	I think it's clear now that we're all in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1450	First of all, let me say that I will not be replicating any more, but I want to say that Mr. Munib Jusufović said that his party and he recognises Bosnia and Herzegovina within the borders without mentioning entities again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1451	Okay, I think the agreement between the two esteemed envoys on Bosnia and Herzegovina is valuable, but let's move on to the realization of this agenda point. The minister asked only a brief further explanation that would help avoid repeating some of the events.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1452	Gentlemen, today, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina owes the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions 6.1 million marks and Republika Srpska 3.2 million marks to the budget. Budget has expenditures of 72.6 million to date and has 10 million commitments. Just as high as they didn't pay off the entities. And please count in further discussions that the blockade and moratorium that we had to apply is the result of not having an inflow of funds per current i.e. Legally valid budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1453	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1454	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow delegates, I think it's a very important law and he's looking for a thorough debate, no matter how much haste some have been in the process and no matter how many have tried to create different kinds of unprincipled pressures in this debate. In this context, although we all know, I would also like the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to remind this house of the law, and the Council of Ministers proposes the law. And we bear the political responsibility for the passing of this law and not the passing of this law. What I don't like about it is the day-to-day political breakdown of entity officials who seem to be performing logically as soon as the House votes, we'll split the pensions immediately. By the way, I don't even know why pension funds are even going, if we get to go, why do they have to go over 84 governments in the first place? I find it extremely incorrect for the public and journalists standing there, then he would say that obviously in these entities the issue of pensioners is the last question, because only because they lack money. For everything else there is money for personal incomes in the Federation that are paid neatly and with premiums, and for pensioners there is no money. I'm surprised at all the great points why it didn't take money on other issues, it was for the pensioners. It's about one attempt at political fraud. A fraud that is trying to question what is important that needs to be discussed, deceived on one side and on the other. Because they are difficult to deal with and do not adopt the law in this form and in a different form and adoption, and this is what the House needs to take seriously this debate in a way that it thoroughly considers all the reasons for and all the reasons against. What was happening in public is an entity fraud that did not settle obligations towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. They didn't cut their administrations. Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration is the most minimal administration. It's nice that we here have agreed to travel regular delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the year it is admitted to the Council of Europe, but it's not nice that there is such a large administration on entities and even new administrations are being introduced which I asked the Presidency yesterday whether it is opening diplomatic representations in 8 countries of Republika Srpska. This is the question of the crown question, this law, in my opinion, is a question that we need to discuss a lot of things. In the context of this law, it is poorly disastrous and I am sorry that we have been brought into a position that this law is reflected in the context of budget rebalances. That's unserious. It's an open question to the Council of Ministers - and what if it wasn't, that it wasn't. We designed it as a succession as an inflow of funds. Here Mr. Džaferović rightly pointed out the first whether, and all pointed out more meetings on the need for the original revenues of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is Bosnia and Herzegovina's original income. This is Bosnia and Herzegovina's income and is being decided by the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution on a proposal from the Council of Ministers today by the House of Peoples, several weeks ago the House of Representatives decided. It is the financial resources that represented the reserve of the previous country and this reserve that has its continuity, known, widely accepted under quotes, traitor kralj Petar did not spend any of this on consumption. After that, it was a difficult time, a hungry year of 50. 51st, I don't remember that, I was born much later, but they told me they were heavy. These funds are also not given in consumption. So they were, I remember Milka Planinc, couple not pairs, there's electricity, there's no electricity, these funds weren't spent. So Branko Mikulić, according to one of our esteemed until yesterday's official of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a gas ship, but he did not want to touch these funds. I highlight this from the point of view, as part of the general principles of making a decision. There is no need for Mr. Jusufović to vote in advance. That means you came in with some chip. This is one side of the political medal, which was not painted by the minister of the vault, he painted another equally dramatic line, that unless this conflict law was passed, I checked it for a member of the Bureau, defacto has no rebalancing, defacto has no budget rebalance. The lack of budget rebalancing blocks these institutions, regardless of what the Parliamentary Assembly may say, we did not go beyond our means, etc. But the institutions won't be able to malfunction, they won't be able to work. These are the official statements of the most responsible people in the executive structure of government in this country. That other side. 85 What do you do at this point? The proposal made by the Council of Ministers is a proposal that goes about – the reconciliation of the effort to give little to develop, but little to consolidate the budget, the coverage in principle I will say overpriced administrations on entities, inadequate mechanisms, because you are careful that someone is looking for money for pensions, and here are the instruments by which pensions are collected that would be okay. It's the entities in this logic that make the deal. We retain all of our instruments, but we ask you to give us these money BiH, the BiH institution so that we don't get in the way, but BiH is everything, but we are talking about institutions, entity institutions, BiH institutions, and when we talk about that there would be no misunderstanding I am experiencing all these institutions as my own, including the Republika Srpska, and that is our Bosnian-Herzegovina entity. The key question here that should have gone as a compromise on me together at this home is the Law on Original Income. The constitution clearly states that customs duties are in the exclusive jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitution clearly states that the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly determines the original revenues. Neither of them has been defined to this day. Who can trust such entities that today owe 6.1 million and 3.2 million to the entity institutions that they will settle their obligations from the concessions that will be even bigger next year in view of the extent of the budget that we are increasing potentially with the next item of the agenda. The one who can tell. I'm in deep doubt. I think this law should be passed. I am pleased that the Council of Ministers has decreed that it is going with a law regarding this item of the agenda, but I do not accept the fact that this law is immutable and I do not accept the above and the debate that this law must be adopted in the same form as it was adopted at the House of Representatives. I would ask you whoever performs in front of this house never to say that sentence for the respect of this nation's home, which is otherwise the upper house of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's highest authority in this country. And I would beg all the institutions to understand and all the bearers of function not because these 15 people are sitting in this home. If the Parliamentary Assembly is not respected as the highest instance, it is difficult to respect Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state. And what entity officials are doing these days was about to meet today at the House of Peoples to vote to raise hands for something and that nervous entity officials that didn't already rise because they think they need to raise their hands. It won't work for me like that. I propose and I will vote in first reading for this law when the amendments come. I think all the amendments that my colleagues have given you should be thoroughly considered, see if there are any conditions to be accepted. Whether compromise conclusions with certain amendments can be drawn from this situation, which is very politically responsible for this home. Thank you. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1456	Mr. Chairman mentioned my name. I think there's a reason, and I especially agree when it comes to weighing all the reasons for and against. The fat one and I weigh, and that's how it's supposed to work. This is an extremely complex situation, but let me explain a little bit to say that I'm starting from, I'm making a correction now with this last one. And I'm looking at it in the same direction, but I'm starting with the proposal if this is a fucked-up state, absolutely for a principled reason, and I said, I don't want to put out the illusions and hopes of those young generations and all those who expect us to spend it, give it exactly for 86 what we're told as well. So don't give in to the pressures for those reasons I said, and I absolutely agree with the lobbying of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1457	I thank Mr. Jusufović. I had no intention of causing a replica, I just wanted to point out maybe not in such direct form that we were talking about the form of the first reading and that it would not be good to plead but in the principles that you are against the law. It was about my maybe too much intervention. The word came from Mr. Turjačanin, and then Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1458	Dear fellow delegates, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, would like to make some clarifications here because I have two texts in front of me with two different nominal amounts. One text that defines in front of the Council of Ministers and refers to the amount of money 153.321,729,00 KM and other text that has been delivered to me by the Commission if I value it well for administrative and financial affairs it amounts to 151,513,737,92 marks. Given these statements I heard, I did not listen to the statements of the really prime minister of Republika Srpska yesterday, but I suppose Mr Spahić heard something. I don't understand the time period as defined by Republika Srpska's prime minister that they can be quick to operate when it is known that, let's say, the gross value of these funds is in gold. Does that mean that gold was sold, does that mean that gold should be sold, does that mean that gold could have been sold for 1,800,000,00 marks more than a month ago, so now we're down by 1,800,000,00 marks? It's a little bit of a misunderstanding that I'd like to be explained here by Mr. Secretary. Another thing I would also like to ask, which refers to the purpose of the concession funds. It would remain at paragraph 7 because I was asked a little first about the moderation of priorities in the mass of trouble in which Bosnia and Herzegovina lives. Oh, my God, I'm saying that it's just all our trouble not to say the vague and unenviable position of the pensioner. But Mr. Jusufović here apostrophyd the evasive and displaced faces at least those I don't want to tell the amendments. I'm apostrophealing healthcare, for example, which if there are no medications that these pensioners will receive adequate treatment, etc.itd. It's a mass not to say "problem" that's one circus speciosis where we're from that's very hard to get out of. However, the problem is something else now again said from the minister's mouth, some budget deficit of as many as 9 million marks, and we're giving funds to that deficit that was created, because entities don't single out for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now we're transferring money to them again. I don't know how we're gonna close that circle. You understand me, financing institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's kind of weird if I didn't say things, I'd ask the Registrar to explain to me a little bit here these things that were put out in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1459	I suggest that the minister answer the questions immediately, if Dom agrees, so they don't repeat themselves, or maybe we open up, come on, I had a question. Here's to Jusufović. I've been having a debate the way I asked if anyone had a question for the minister. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1460	Here's a very short question, and it's about the debate so far. He would ask Mr. Minister to say how long before he can invest all his capacities with a proposal for a law on the acquisition of original incomes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1461	Well, whether the minister will now or later. Later, okay. Mr. Džaferović, and let Rodić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1462	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I actually have one replica, a discussion and a parliamentary intervention, a business pardon intervention. I did not go out to rephrase the House's chairman on his discussion, but just to say briefly, Mr. Tokić's words and actions are in your way, because if you lie to me and with my proposal for a conclusion on the normative arrangement of the original incomes of the state, why didn't you put my proposal for a conclusion on the vote – a completed replica. Discussion. The law on the purpose and use of the property that Bosnia and Herzegovina received under the Agreement on Sucession Issues, following all that we have received since October of this year and here as MPs, there is some strange flow for me and I will discuss this law and ask some questions and ask that these questions be answered to me. The original text of the law discussed the funds of the concession available in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which came from a bank for international alignment in Basel of 153.321,729,00 KM later, due to the likely change in the price of gold, I received an answer to that question earlier, 151,513,737,92 KM. And it was just these funds, so I repeat the funds that came from cca 150 million KM that came from the bank for international alignments in Basel. By law, these funds in Article 4 of the law were allocated in a way that would be used for the following purposes, and the transfer of shares to the bank for international settlements of cca 25 million settlements of earlier commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina 8 million, the formation of insurance and credit risks of 84 million, the reconciliation of old liabilities 4,600, so as not to add support to the budgets of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska for the settlement of a certain amount of unsettled pension, disability and other purposes of which 23 for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 13 for the Republic of Serbia, thus within the total amount of 30 million KM. I therefore respect those discussions that spoke about how funds coming into the country from the succession should be used at the level of the state for development, not for consumption. However, I also appreciate the fact that the current situation in the pension funds, the fact that it is related to the state of pay-out of disability, and let's say I'm an MP when I got this text as it is, so as far as it goes, I repeat the funds from the bank for international alignments in Basel cca 150 million marks that talk about this distribution of funds of which, let's say, 84 million according to this original text goes like, there goes the guarantee for loans of export-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I was willing to support it, and this 30 million KM that concerns pension and disability payments, because the real situation in these funds is what it is and should be helped and I was 88 ready for that part to deviate from some general principle when it comes to the use of funds that do not come in the state based on a succession and a means of making available and the purpose to which these funds should be spent and used in principle. But something's going on, I don't know what. I would beg the answer, therefore, to those questions that are not logical to me at all and that it has nothing to do with the budget rebalance. This could have something to do with the budget rebalance of the 30 million, and that's why I said I was ready to support this text. What I'm going to say further, and what's added to this bill has nothing to do with budget rebalance, and today as MPs of the House of Peoples, we have one quite different text. Please, nice. What I read earlier, this is no longer a relevant text. This text has been amended at the House of Representatives and this text has been amended yesterday by the amendments of the Commission to the Administrative Commission and the Commission for Finance and the budget of the People's House. So right now we have the next text. Besides these 150 million funds that come from a bank for international alignment in Basel, it's completely inexplicable for me. This law includes cca orientational, according to the law 130 million KM of monetary gold surplus funds and the accounts of the former SFRY National Bank belonging to Bosnia and Herzegovina have been evaluated in that amount and which is yet to arrive in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask what these funds are for in this law. Why is the law, beware, legally bearing the name of the law on the purpose and use of the property that Bosnia and Herzegovina received under the agreement on the issues of succession in the bank for international alignments in Basel. What's with the law? What happened is that these funds, I repeat, did not depend on budget rebalancing, were found in the law. Therefore, when these issues are 130 million, these additional funds in monetary gold and on the accounts of the former SFRY National Bank, in relation to the text of the law, foresees even their distribution. So regardless of which they are not yet operational, because they have not arrived in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this law which should not concern these funds, which today says so – these funds will be deployed in such a way that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to 65% and to Republika Srpska 35% of these funds. It's not 150 million, it's 130 million. Where's the state when it comes to these funds? Why all the entities? And why 65% of the Federation and the Republika Srpska 35%? I, as far as I know, was the principle of 23 Federations, and 13 Republika Srpska and as far as I know, 65% is less than 23 and 35% is more than 13. So that would be the questions I'm asking the answer to. Later on, the text of the law will redistribute these funds, to different distribution structures and these 150 million funds, and this 84 million funding will be reduced for loans at the state level, for guarantees to 52,89 million. Pension funds from 30 to 51, but here I am asking this question that is related to these additional funds. So what's she gonna do in this law when they don't depend on them at all on budget rebalancing. I got the answer to the question that they're not dependent on budget rebalancing. So why are we deploying them now? Why there's nothing about the state and the distribution of these funds and why this ratio is 65% to 35, not 23 to 13 as it's usually common in some of the ratios that we're applying. If this becomes legal, then these 130 million, then I really won't be able to support this law. If it is done in principle and if the law only covers what it covered in the original text for the reasons I was already talking about, then I will support the law. Thank you. And I said I have a business intervention. So this was a discussion. It's a complete discussion. Now business intervention. When it comes to voting, since my esteemed colleague Dr Genjac is simply removed from this pay phone, when it comes to entity voting, there is therefore an OHR interpretation, it is in my hands, it is measured against the total number of MPs from the entity, not compared to the present number of MPs from the entity. Yesterday's vote made contrary to this is against the Rules of Procedure and against the interpretation of the OHR, and I am doing this business intervention chairing only to help you save this session, to save this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1463	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Džaferović. You wouldn't comment on yesterday's flow. In his special conclusion, Dom also supported the opinion expressed by the secretary and we can sit down and discuss it. There are also different views regarding, apparently, yesterday's vote that has been concluded and for me definitely. I'd just beg that it doesn't happen over and over again, we all understand what it's all about. The amendments to the House of Representatives have been accepted by the Commission and it, our commission and they have become an integral part of the text of the law, so as not to keep talking about two texts. In fact, it is a text adopted by our commission's amendments to the House of Representatives at yesterday's session. Next word came from Mr. Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1464	90 Ladies and gentlemen, I also appreciate that this is a very complex issue and that this is a very complex law. It usually happens with us when something is complicated that we do it in an urgent and shortened procedure, so that's the case with this law. However, the fact is that today, too, what we heard about this speaker, is that most things have been agreed on, and today it is time for the House of People to raise its hands and go into realisation. Why am I saying that? Because the tensions around this succession bill are so high that it's just waiting for us to adopt it and start printing pensions, I just don't know what amount. And I wouldn't have brought this conflict law issue down to the question of pensioners, because otherwise I think those people and they created this property that we have the good fortune to distribute today, and I think they should have the greatest benefit in all of that. And in order to benefit, they can only benefit from reasonable projects and projects that will benefit them through the fertilization of these funds. So that what I'm saying, and I'm talking about the principles of this law because I think that's the topic of the agenda, is the fact that we're here talking about some global framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic policy at the Plenary Session and that we adopted that strategy. I'm no longer in favour of short-term solutions that are going to solve something today, and tomorrow we're going to arrive either in a month at an almost similar or identical situation. It is not necessary that Mr. Momir Jusufović, an esteemed colleague of mine from the previous National Assembly, and today he is here, should not constantly remind us of certain things because it is clear that your party has in its name Bosnia and Herzegovina...entity. So it's strategically clear who's sitting here. As I do, and I am thinking of accepting Bosnia and Herzegovina as provided for by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, let me explain some things and some of the dilemmas that I personally believe may be the subject of conversation and agreement, and therefore I join the chairman of the House of Peoples who said that no solution can be taken or left behind, but that we are looking for a solution. We have a situation today that practically, here I will refer only to Article 5 of point 7 where one part of these funds is said to support the budgets of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska to settle a certain amount of unsettled pension, disability, other purposes of which 23 to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13 to Republika Srpska. The debt is currently only in Republika Srpska 120m for outstanding pensions until 31.12.2000. I assume that such a debt also in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the view that the MIO Fund earlier in Mostar, has now reconciled all its obligations and there are no debts from the previous year. The number of pensioners in the Federation is 240 thousand with an average pension of 180 marks and the lowest pension of 91 117 marks. The situation in Republika Srpska is very different. 183 thousand pensioners 441, average pension 115 marks and lowest 8o. And in the PIO Fund, earlier Mostar 50, which means an average pension of 170 marks. To pay off a pension in Republika Srpska's legal pension that was at that age when we owe it to today's line, it's 31 million marks. Today it is paid at 63.10% and the total pension is 23 million. When we recalculate all of this, we come up with an interesting figure, that when we divide this by 23 and 13 we get to mean 17 million to Republika Srpska and 24 million, 34 million to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it's buying social peace, then today we'll simply settle it, but I don't know what we'll do in February next year for the total debt owed to the pensioners today. I also want to say that today, and we all know that the enormous social uncertainty in Bosnia and Herzegovina is both with pensioners, so in the families of the dead, warless, unemployed, I'll even say business people. 56% of the revenue goes to the administration's payment. Today, we have an interesting 14 political practical entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 181 ministries and over practically only this 56% figure that goes on to isolate it says that we should practically just discuss the budget. I see the budget as the crown of some activities. Practically, the budget is what goes as an upgrade to what is practically through production and everything that can be achieved. For that reason, I don't think it's realistic in this way and this approach, although there are probably certain arrangements and certain consents, but I don't think with this data that I'm talking about we won't and ultimately I've talked to the pensioners' associations and many people about practically this payment. I don't think she's going to solve the question or ease it. It's actually 40% of the pension that should be paid to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1465	Mr. Genjac, then Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1466	Dear colleagues, I was personally in a great dilemma about this law and relations with it, especially in the first reading. In the proposal received by the Council of Ministers, there were, of course, items that caused the dilemma in terms of a large part of the funds directed towards consumption, not the developmental part, but also the need to address certain issues of pensioners through this law and through this inheritance property. It was therefore a dilemma and a insistence and respect for the need to divide 92 pensioners. However, today my dilemma has been removed. In fact, as Prime Minister of the Federation, Mr Grabovac said that the pension issue depends on the concession law, on the inheritance of property, the deputy prime minister. Mr. Tokić today said it was a scam, so pensions don't depend on it. Since it is, of course, the government of the Alliance that is on this and that level, so both at the state and entity level, I understand that Mr. Tokić's stance followed an agreement within the Alliance. I respect that attitude, so the matter of pensions does not depend on this, and that's why my dilemma is removed. I, of course, if that reason is further removed that pensions required this to be adopted, in particular the unmistakable reason for me to vote for one law that grants the money to entities mainly, especially after deciding on the Commission for Administrative, Economic Issues that the funds have not yet been received, and these are the funds in monetary gold amounting to 130 million in advance, and are fully allocated to entities, compared to 65 in terms of 35%. I am, of course, asking the minister at the same time what this aspect of Bosnia and Herzegovina means for the future, this provision adopted on the Administrative Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1467	Mr. Genjac, then Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1468	Dear colleagues, I was personally in a great dilemma about this law and relations with it, especially in the first reading. In the proposal received by the Council of Ministers, there were, of course, items that caused the dilemma in terms of a large part of the funds directed towards consumption, not the developmental part, but also the need to address certain issues of pensioners through this law and through this inheritance property. It was therefore a dilemma and a insistence and respect for the need to divide 92 pensioners. However, today my dilemma has been removed. In fact, as Prime Minister of the Federation, Mr Grabovac said that the pension issue depends on the concession law, on the inheritance of property, the deputy prime minister. Mr. Tokić today said it was a scam, so pensions don't depend on it. Since it is, of course, the government of the Alliance that is on this and that level, so both at the state and entity level, I understand that Mr. Tokić's stance followed an agreement within the Alliance. I respect that attitude, so the matter of pensions does not depend on this, and that's why my dilemma is removed. I, of course, if that reason is further removed that pensions required this to be adopted, in particular the unmistakable reason for me to vote for one law that grants the money to entities mainly, especially after deciding on the Commission for Administrative, Economic Issues that the funds have not yet been received, and these are the funds in monetary gold amounting to 130 million in advance, and are fully allocated to entities, compared to 65 in terms of 35%. I am, of course, asking the minister at the same time what this aspect of Bosnia and Herzegovina means for the future, this provision adopted on the Administrative Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1469	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1470	I thank Mr. Chairman, we're talking about a very important matter and it's quite already said, there's no need for big stories. We speak in teat, and I think it's a good thing for us, to be characterized by this (this time)... If we were to express ourselves in sports, we'd be able to score in tea. Throwing a basket into a teapot is just a celebration. I apologize to my colleague, but I put a part of the discussion in that category. It is known that the media likes strong formulations, it is known that they like the point of teat, and they can conclude that we are the right Parliament, because my colleagues are using it abundantly. I think we understand each other very well, and I think we are like a country and as a Parliament and as this home in serious condition than any game. I think we understand each other completely again, and we know, we certainly all know what capital we're going to take after this session no matter how we vote. One more important feature of this debate needs to be addressed. It's gonna be free to re-explanate quite strictly. It is a mechanical relationship with the issues of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that we are one system of government, one system of social system 93 now as we are, and that, speaking about this relationship, we should keep in mind our Constitution and that we treat it and the need to change it, because we are also in some of these procedures. One type of approach is that entities are at risk, I simplify with all danger, that entities are threatened by Bosnia and Herzegovina and that there is a fundamental issue of struggle and survival, and the other kind of approach is vice versa, of course. Neither the bottom nor the other will benefit us too much, especially when we are as I said in a serious situation and in an important teat. Why is it that we all know the guilt, if we have to start by ourselves, as Mr. Belkić, a member of the presidency this morning when he spoke about breaking certain items, spoke first about the presidency. We can talk about this House first, although I don't see that there are too many of us to blame, but there are and we can find and we need to address all responsibility to the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and all other institutions. But we have before us one piece of paper, one law, and I think it's a good thing that according to these means it went with the law and at this stage of the debate where we, in the previous phase, are satisfied with the distribution where 74% is directed towards development. It would be better to go 100%, but this bill is also followed by a number of papers. Among other things, in response to Mr Spahić's question, where it is indeed further clarified. And to conclude with what I've already said, as far as I'm concerned, we can move on to the next phase. At the stage of the principle debate, this is acceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1471	I thank Mr. Šimić. Mr Špirić answered the word and then Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1472	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, member of the Presidency, distinguished guests, it is very difficult after two days of working at the House of Nations to discuss quite complex things, after exhausting discussions with one of the colleagues not to repeat themselves. What I would like today is that this debate we are having is not on the line of conflict between Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions or vice versa. Not to call on the anxiety of politicians from different entities because I'm guessing it's normal people. I see no reason for any mood, especially in the economic sphere in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter at which level, if 60% of the 94 working-age population in Bosnia and Herzegovina is known to be not working, if it is known that the large internal responsibility of businesses is, for example, in Republika Srpska over a billion and 200 million marks. I guess it's bigger in the Federation. If we know there is an external trade deficit in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we know there is a huge foreign exchange deficit in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these are all indicators of serious messages and serious concerns. It wouldn't be good for us to discuss the means of a succession to get down to two parents who have kids from different marriages. They are threatened with social misery and are having a conversation so that it may be good for children to deny food to survive, and that only they survive from the reserve. That is why I think that the time in which we receive such a legal project and its relationship with the budget rebalancing needs to be used to see what we can do in a short time, what can possibly remain the subject of dialogue and agreement so that the funds, through the funds needed, can be invested most rationally in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will not talk here about the procedural mistakes from which both the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and us in the Parliamentary Assembly have been drawn up. They are sometimes working to say speeds, for which individual decisions should be made and hence I understand these two different proposals of the law on the means of succession. Since the Council of Ministers submitted one proposal concerning about 150 million, it could not offer not to pull the other one with 280, it would require a slightly longer procedure, perhaps another 60 days. And then a skillful form was found to delegates, actually MPs to the Council of Representatives, to bring through the amendments, and basically we have one law of two parts. So it can be interpreted, maybe business can be crossed, can't be crossed, I think it's successfully that these procedural gaps have been overcome in this way. Although I don't think that's good, it's serious stuff. Serious matters require serious preparation of delegates. What I'm trying to say is that in my opinion, the disputed distribution, the disputed use of funds and the disputed management of funds. Why do I think the disputed distribution of these funds? You see those in whose debate is dominated by Bosnia and Herzegovina, with which I agree in a good measure for the reason that this is property created by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and God knows who before them. I don't think there's any reason in Article 5(7) to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina's pensioners into 1/3 and 2/3. The 51m envisioned for pensioners should be shared with pensioners of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If Republika Srpska's pensioners participate with 5% in the pension fund of Republika Srpska, if 20% participate, an example works 30%, but to be pensioners. Also, the Pension Federation fund meets the 95 criteria of resolving a part of the pension issue at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also don't see any reason why we give pensioners the means to make decisions through the entity government. Why would we do that? Why don't we pay into the fund, because pensioners almost have nothing to do with the government, they have their pension funds. I'm afraid that governments don't buy time so that there aren't pensioners talking again, you know, banks keep funds for 5-10 days, so we solved some other problem etc. So I support, no matter what the bile debate, if it's already some help, which it isn't. It seems to me that out of all this worry by the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all together about pensioners, we're talking about getting things cleaned up. All citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know, they're in the cleaners. Everyone, but everybody. There's not a single category that's not clear. Many don't have houses, many don't have pensions, many don't have salaries, they don't have jobs. So everything is, there's nothing left to perform on the clearing. But you can see from that excessive concern for pensioners who are being handed over these days, sending different messages from the Prime Minister, entity and Minister of the Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's enough for us today to do the job so that they can get the pension. So, considering the difficult situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's pensioners, the Council of Ministers decided six months ago to help them when they decided to raise their salaries by 840 marks. It's a concrete move to help pensioners, to get us into a situation today and say – if you don't vote for the Gods tomorrow, there's no pension for the pensioners. Here I am offering today, so to all of us, if this is already part of a political deal, part of the package to be allocated to the pension fund of one and the other according to the number of pensioners 51 million. Let's forget the Republika Srpska Federation. Is there anything going on here? Why would it go over the government budget of one or the other? But look here at Article 8 of this Act, it says - the Council of Ministers shall adopt negotiating programmes, decisions and other acts and take the necessary measures to use the concession funds for the purposes of Article 5, point 1, 2.3, 4.4. and 6. It's all right. Or, say, Article 9. – The Council of Ministers and the entity government undertake to use at least 10% of the resources allocated to develop human resources for a new entrepreneurial society and education in the field of information technologies. If something is said to be going on and we're going to leave 10% to the Council of Ministers and the governments of entities for some special development, say, personnel, which we're going to need. You can use it, I can use it all in development. What is needed is to define that Bosnia and Herzegovina is needed. I think this is a skilled formulation to get 10% of the insulated funds. And that's no less than 28 96 million, if it's the aggregate funds of a succession. Or where the governments of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska are said to bring in appropriate programmes and other acts for the use of concession funds for the purpose of Articles 4 and 5 of point 7. And that's exactly what pensioners are for. So when we make the decision, they'll be making programs to transfer the funds to them. There's no need for that kind of thing. So, as far as this distribution is concerned, it's disputed by my division. In what way? These are not huge funds for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are in great depths, but they must be serious in view of the situation we are in. It was more logical for me to think, so I'm talking about the law in principle in the first reading that, since we talked about all the banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, here again not to mention entities, people who have relapsed Communism, they have different mortgages, none of them are complete, world banks come and rob us, we don't have any healthy state bank. Here's Raiffeisen Bank, here's Deutsche Bank, here's the Arab Bank. Couldn't we have formed a state bank based on 300 million marks? Or two or three state banks that would be the best guarantee of Bosnia and Herzegovina's development, its entities, cantons, etc. Wasn't that a more rational approach? Didn't we form a Bosnia and Herzegovina development fund that would be located differently under the structure of the funds. It's easy to calculate both entities and cantons. It would not be a problem that would also have its board of directors and file bills to Parliament for the use of funds. This is how I'm afraid. Don't be mad at me for saying it's a parallel budget. That we as lightly as the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina are giving assistance to the Council of Ministers to have parallel funds to manage without any agreement. Find me a member of the law that defines the responsibility of those who use funds or find me and a member who sees Parliament's competence of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by giving us the authority to manage and manage those funds. When all this fails in 2003, I assure you that it will not be possible to make the budgets of entities or the budgets of the joint institutions, that they are not angry, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the rate of growth of the social product in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities is not so much that it can provide so many needs and the rapid growth of institutions that are necessary for the state. So these are serious problems, but I think the speed of thinking about the means of succession, and even this intervention of those funds that are not yet operational, the difficulties in the budget, the different stories that power should be presented in the eyes of domestic and international that it is effective and when it is not, regardless of what authority it is, it is not good. 97 And what's still not good. We have something that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is why we have problems with the law that our party presidents are instead of the legislative authority in the executive government. And as difficult as the economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities is, the most stable is the executive power, because MPs are not allowed to vote against legal projects that party presidents through ministers are putting into parliament. And that's not good. I don't think of anyone individually that someone wouldn't get hurt, I'm talking about a model that's not good. Dispute, when I say it, is a controversial use of funds. Why is the use of funds controversial? You remember that with every contract with any state when given, it was about credit arrangements, when I asked for a report on the degree of Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt, I asked to see how much debt it was growing, that the Dom ratifys it. Are we anywhere when it comes to 50 million, 100 million, 180 million? Is there any need in this law to report to Parliament whether these funds are increasing from year to year? Because if by any chance all the authorities had been ineffective before us, none of this would have happened. I think Mr. Tokić was talking about it. These are, however, many years of funds saved to allow the closure of budgetary... entity and central institutions for 2001 and 2002. In 2003 the elections seem to be coming, so whoever wins will be able to tell the people that this is well used, that we have been in a difficult situation and that we should not be thrifty, as the Treasury Minister said towards these environments or too painful. The devil brings, the devil takes. As far as I'm concerned, I said the questionable management of funds from the point of view of governance, and it seems to me that we don't have a single protection mechanism in this law that someone who abuses the use of these funds can bear any kind of responsibility and that's why I don't think this is good either. And that's why after this story about the law in the global world, if we want to, of course, say that the funds are rationally used, if we want to cover some of our politicians' political promises towards the real part of the population that is threatened, and not only because it seems to me that refugees, even if they have pension status in a much more difficult situation to make, so today's decision, and to continue to invest 51 million in pension funds, these are two funds according to the number of pensioners. This will ease the political tensions against the pensioners. Leave it to the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, the entity governments who like to agree to a little bit on how to manage the funds provided by the succession. I get the impression that we have one accident when we have no funding, and when we have projects, we don't have money. It would be good if the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they knew about the concession funds for a year today, told us about at least 20-98 development projects in which these funds could be invested. When I say projects, then I mean execution projects, not ideas. I've had so much and I'm willing to support this decision towards the pensioners and I'm not ready to vote for the law in the first reading if there's a ratio left, 2/3 versus the pensioners. It's not fair, gentlemen. It is not fair to develop Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the north and part of the south. A piece of white and a piece of black. It's not good. 1/3 can't refer to pensioners, because they don't participate in this way, 2/3, but if it's for pensioners according to the number of pensioners. And it doesn't seem to me to be the reciprocal 1/2, 2/3 for the financing of joint institutions, and I don't think that this trap is the relationship between entities and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we can't analogize into this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1473	I thank my fellow Špirić. The honourable envoy Spahić came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1474	Dear Chairman Tokić, precisely, I asked Mr. Ante Domazet about the criteria for the distribution of the ex-SFRJ surplus funds. Mr. Ante Domazet responded with 1, 2, and 3. You have that answer on your desk. I hope that the means of public information in response, too, can forget the questions completely and the ones he has asked, simply publish them as a whole. Because I want to say that when the criteria under which the allocation of certain funds are laid down are laid down, and if one minister is then bound and signed, the answer implies that such, conditionally normal relationship of the criteria with the draft law and the decisions that will follow under that law will be respected in the terms of the adoption of such a bill as we have received. And behind that should be the time that will come. We will act interveningly and put an end to the fire as Mr Rodić said very precisely, not entering this division structure that Mr Šprić spoke of only explicitly about the data on how much the funds belong to which community and how much, in fact, and what social status of one category of population this refers to, are pensioners. So far, we have never received more precise than one MP in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. Obviously, it is a professional in this area, a colder and more precise alasia that speaks about how what is a legal solution is actually conflicted in reality, even if it was intertwined in numbers, which is very rare and with what is real when 99 comes down to budget users or budget funds or funds under a certain law. If Mr Rodić's word is compared to what the reasons for the criteria and what the proposed law is, then it is quite clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina is slipping into two basic solutions. The first is that Bosnia and Herzegovina, by the idea I have heard for the first time, is growing up to say its structure in an intelligent way and is beginning to have ideas in Parliament about BiH's development banks, about BiH's development funds, about funds that will in some way concentrate in the hands of state institutions. There is nothing more important, it teaches Domazet to students and graduates and adults when he has a chance at these undergraduate courses, rather than that the state institutions or any other institution have the means to be able to be a strong, relevant institution. It's the starting point for before they talk about strengthening state institutions. And in that context is the intervention that when you look here right now about the exhibitions that we got for the first time, we get diets that encourage what Mr. Domazet took over as the minister insisted and that's this answer under 3. This is, therefore, the insistence on the development programmes and the development of this country, and we are now even getting concrete ideas in the discussion, which is useful for the principles that we are discussing. How to strengthen these state institutions to intervene development to intervene socially, etc. So we're approaching the idea of a social state and we're leaving in some way out of the space of the state's exclusive atetisation at different levels of either the cantonal municipal entity or the state. So we're talking in a much more serious way and I'd say a more rational way than we've ever talked about before. And I like that in this debate. I support it. Because it speaks of the seriousness of the process that we will enter if we do not want to experience others in order to say the fall which is a scenario of predictable solutions if, of course, we give up what we talked about today, which is that we do not get because we are in front of the so-called diplomatic principle of often spoken confetti complexes, so before the final act to avoid responsibility for what might be called Argentine syndrome in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what is Argentine syndrome in Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's one blindness in the face of social problems in the face of the torment of ordinary people. So the people who make all these papers agree to make these kinds of processes, etc. Why is this important? Because the social position of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina is appreciated. It's appreciated no matter where they live or how they live. And I think it is very important that it is very responsible that, with regard to one addition of the commitment from the succession, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina came out with a bill of one law. So 100 I support it because the discussion is in principle and I think it's very important that this law be passed. The second thing that I think is important is that this debate on principles since it opened a series for the first time in this debate for the first time in Parliament was in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. This can be consulted for the first time every session of the last five years from 96 to 2001, for the first time in Parliament, people become aware of the responsibility of the move they will make regarding this law. And how this story will take place. He who survives can speak, not the one who wins. It's not always a reflection and victory big thing when you beat your own citizens or on behalf of your own citizens or when you lose. The problem is one who survives, so who has a problem with solving their fundamental question from today to tomorrow, so whether they will have to survive, say, from 2001 to 2002. He's going to talk, of course, about what it means to be committed by us today on their behalf. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I would be very happy if, in a package of this law and in a package of this rebalancing and in a budget projection package for 2002, we were exposed in a consistent way by the Council of Ministers for the first time, it could also happen, I hope it is not the end of the year that there is the beginning of the year and the January session I hope the measures of economic policy that will follow the logic of governance and good governance in society in the crisis that is in crisis. So I would expect what is next to these figures and mixed figures in the legal provisions to be seen as a logically consistent proposal for economic policy measures, which was committed by representatives of the Council of Ministers when we supported them in the debate on the general framework policy so-called. strategic economic development until 2004. So I miss it here to say about those puzzles for the picture all the way what's called the economic policy strategy. And I expect the Council of Ministers to come up with such a proposal at the beginning of the year. Since I was very impressed with the proposals on the foundation after my colleague Špirić returned here on development banks etc. I would like to tell the team about because he is present is not good if he does not hear it in full it would be very good if the same idea were followed by Mr Špirić, who is in these parts a great expert that, apart from the way we will concentrate the funds in this way or the one we get to spend, he has the same proposal that we will collect these funds. So the state institutions will make original revenues. I remember the debate several years ago on this very subject in this same speaker we had different positions but if in a few years, the economic political and other situation has matured in Bosnia and Herzegovina to hear proposals for development banks for the BiH Foundation and for a different approach to economic problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina which I fully understand because we are all in this regard in the mood to deputize I would like to know whether we will get really not as a classic question whether in 2 months we can get a law on original incomes or 15 days or tomorrow rather than whether we can come up with a solution in which one spending logic will also be the logic of harvesting. That's what I expected from an experienced economics professor who became the secretary of the vault that we would have a relationship with each other when it comes to the answer I asked for in these answers. There is mostly a technical response here very correct and in that sense that it would not remain on the technical response I would ask Mr. Minister to try and accept this 101 second part, which is to find solutions that will be in the future. So I think that the proposal of Tokic is quite appropriate for us to try to clarify the situation of the principles that the law has logic and the need to be made but to stop at it and to take one break, regardless of how much I am not here offering and pauses, so that all these amendments that have been made through the Commission and these amendments that we have come to the table together and this discussion that we have led to seriously consider how expensive this is from the point of view of the House of Nations that needs to make such decisions because the mechanical principle of the fetacular system on which I am returning means the factical disqualification of this home in advance in public change and political life is, above all, to ensure that we are able to overcome the principles in the matter. If after such a serious debate I have received I am really not very surprised by the treatment of this problem by the delegates interested in making it possible for the working body of the commission in charge of these issues or the Bosnian Serb and Croat clubs to sit down and take responsibility in co-ordination that in the second part of the debate, when we move to debate in the principles, therefore... with the principles of a concrete debate on articles to be a truly productive job. I don't think that we should step down from the intention and the goodwill of the MPs to accept the law to accept it in the first reading that is called in the principles and to create conditions for us to work in a break that lasts for an hour or three to finish our work on the amendment. Let us discuss between ourselves in a working body which is therefore competent in Parliament and come to another part of the session that will allow the Council of Ministers, with its views expressed in the proposal of this law and amendments, as well as this House of Peoples, in addition to discussions in articles, and finally I believe the adoption of this law to express the very precise spirit of this discussion which was very good very precise and very correct in relation to the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all of us. Thank you very much."
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1475	Thank you. Whether more, Mr Ilić, and then we expect the minister to answer questions as to what would be the final debate in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1476	Gentlemen delegates, I have already been somewhere meaning in the second part of the day. We've heard a few very good suggestions here. I join those who suggest we end this by taking a break, all these amendments and suggestions that we have to try to bring them into line, because there is no adoption of budget rebalancing unless we adopt this law. And while we're here, everyone here is seeing, everyone from the Council of Ministers, here is Mr. Belkić, so everyone is here who can solve this problem. Let's make an effort to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1477	I thank you for your good intentions, suggestions from a respected colleague, Ilić. He would ask Minister Domazet to discuss the law at the end of the debate. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1478	Well, here I am with some of my colleagues in other countries who had just heard that they had deployed these money, that they had, of course, made it very comfortable, because these were the extraordinary revenues of the budget and the government had decided on it. I think, of course, in the spirit of our political constitution, we're really conducting a very fundamental, rich debate, a fundamental debate, but we need to be aware of the limitations. We cannot change the economic reality in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a radical way through this law. I can say that the structure of the total funds by regional criteria is allocated so that 38.5%, 35.5% of the state-level funds remain. 22% for Republika Srpska and the Federation 42.5%. So it's an optimum that has one rich content and I especially want to draw your attention to the quality of the funds that are placed in Republika Srpska according to this proposal. It is proposed to eat for the Republic of Serbia and the Federation, or entities. This is a member of the 7th consolidated text which says that the funds of the succession under Article 4 of this Act, so these 130 million for the development programme in entities are placed at these percentages 65 and 35 percent on a credit basis. So we understand the need for regional development to achieve its function, i.e. to decentralised development decisions, but the integrity of State-level funds is maintained through a credit relationship. So it wasn't just given without any obligation and without any logical connection of state or entity. This, of course, should be determined and it will not be a banking ratio, it will be the conditions of at least the IDA credit that the World Bank gives us for development, where profit is not a primary objective, but credit indicates that these funds must be profitablely invested, that they cannot be given, that is a key issue. If this is the reason for the esteemed representative Jusufović not to accept, I think this law, I think it's enough of his argument for me to say at least changed, and I feel like a man who needs it, who's tired and needs oxygen, and then it's said – so listen, I have some problems, so you're going to turn it off until I solve these problems. So that oxygen that's this law that they wanted us to or didn't admit is exactly what we need to secure that oxygen. I point out the next three consequences of the situation we're in today. You can call it euphemist one way or another. You can take that down to a technical and essential problem. But I can say this. The first institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are already in a blockade, and they have no chance of coming out of that blockade unless the budget rebalance is adopted, or the package that you are offered here in the context of one, is normalising the financial situation. So this 9.3 million we don't have, we won't even have them, and in that sense I really can't predict a normal development at this point. The events will develop, but they will not be normal and in this sense we can certainly expect that the years-long effort to build institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will virtually devalue. We have a letter from Žak Klajn who cannot understand that he pays the State Border Service not paid and who says – your stories about the anti-terrorist coalition, you prove this, seriously question your commitment. That his letter and his intervention simply remained on our side with the answer. We're under the moratorium, we're looking for solutions, we're waiting for solutions. All institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the same situation. Don't think just the State Border Service is our greatest burden, our greatest achievement and greatest challenge. 103 Second, the ability of entity budgets is minimalised. The repayment of external debts, the external debt by the end of the year of 10 million first comes under question, and then their functional capacity. These purposes of this point 7 are the purposes that we have aimed at relaxing, supporting budgetary entities, and their decision is what it will be used to do. We cited examples, pensions, disability, perhaps health deficits, perhaps deficits, the government should decide. The entity government will decide that. But this is one must say package. I want to point out the special dramatic situation in the next one. We didn't get any support from the international aid budgets this year. And credit payments, here with hard efforts by the end of the year, went all the way to the burden of entity budgets. Therefore, this is not a simple situation, and these solutions are not only ad hoc solutions. already next year, some inflow of international funds that will mean support and budgets need to be secured and can be secured. But this year was a year without any inflows, and of course it broke the entity budgets, and of course there are also these problems that we're trying to sort of touch with this bill project. I was asked if gold was sold? Yes, the gold was sold on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision. The sale was made by the Central Bank and the average price of $273.20 per piece of gold with an income of about $53m was reached and the funds are on the Central Bank's account. Of course, their use is under consideration for Parliament's decision-making. The next question was – the concept of the law. Well, it is a concept of the law that I said in the opening notes it changed. First, we went to propose the distribution of those funds that are certain, which are already at our disposal, and then the need to solve the problem entirely by succession, including these 130 million that are not yet available and which could be available at the beginning, that is, in the first half of the following year. That's why the solutions had to be completely different. And that's why, and what my colleague Džaferović put out quite logically. But we kept 207.8 million for developmental purposes and proportions, basic economic purposes may even be improved, given that the sum from 153 million jumped to 281 million. Much more for development, much higher percentage of the share of development funds and much better perfumance of the proposal itself. A direct question has been asked for what time can we have a law on obtaining primary incomes? I would like to say here to the esteemed House that the issue of primary income is not a simple question and we cannot resolve it with some draft law. Please, we'll prepare a platform for you to access that problem. I came to the conclusion of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is working intensively with the EU, and asked them for funds to make the study. We are working to prepare the ten...reference, so through a project of the task and we expect it to be a job done in 2 months to appear on the Council of Ministers, on the coordination body for economic development and European integration and on Parliament. After that, they should start to be born, it is an incubator, and projects, bill proposals, measures, etc. should be born. So in that sense, I want to say that we are paying very much attention to this problem, because it is a key issue. It is essential that we have incomes that are collected by automation, that we are not in the hands of someone's will, because the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are becoming a serious matter, I can no longer get rid of ad hoc. I wouldn't go into any other comments here, they certainly show how many solutions are possible in approach to this problem. 104 I would end up with what counterpart Spahić, an esteemed representative of this house said when he qualified my answer as a technical aspect of the problem. You know, an economy can sometimes be poetry. But she needs an ambience to sing poetically. This is not an ambience for poetic access. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1479	I thank the Honorable Minister Domazet. Unless there's a replica, and I'm guessing there isn't. What's a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1480	I thank Mr. Minister, he explained things to me. This amount of funds in this percentage meant for development and on a credit basis, I must admit to changing the essence and spirit of this law. I thank the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1481	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Genjac. I think the conditions have been developed to approach the plea regarding this law in a way that we can declare ourselves in the first reading or in a business statement who is to conduct a debate on members of the law? I ask the envoys to vote. - 12 for who's against it? Are there any abstentions? - one abstention. 12 votes for and 1 abstention. I agree that the text of the law on the purpose and use of the assets which Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the Agreement on the matters of succession with the Bank for International Alignment in Basel was unanimously adopted in the first reading. There's a multiple need for a half-hour break. One of the needs is to clarify the amendments. He would ask all those who had amendments on the committees, on the commission, and remain in these amendments to use this time eventually to bring these amendments into line in a way that goes to the text of the law that is now in the procedure. At the same time, I make it clear to the other envoys that there are no new amendments and that we will not be able to accept the amendments that were not on the commission in the light that the amendment phase following the shortened procedure was completed yesterday. A four-and-fifth, college meeting. Let's get back to work. Did you get all the amendments? I will remind you that there should be 4 amendments to Mr Špirić, 2 amendments, 3 amendments to Mr Munib Jusufović and 1 amendment to Sejfudin Tokić. It's about the amendments that were on the commission, they weren't accepted on the commission. Envoys, delegates will defend them, or propose directly to the House. 105 So I suggest we move on to a second reading under Article 91. Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 89. The Rules of Procedure were submitted by amendment delegates Nikola Špirić, Munib Jusufović, Sejfudin Tokić. I would ask the envoys of Mr. Nikol Špirić if he has any need to explain his amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1483	Ladies and gentlemen, since the mood has worked, the law has been passed in the first reading and is going to the second reading, so according to the amendments. I, too, suggest that in Article 8 he end up putting a decimal point and adding text -- which must be verified in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I will read to you Article 8 which says - the Council of Ministers makes the appropriate programmes, decisions and other acts and takes the necessary measures to use the concession funds for the purpose of Article 5, point 1, 2.3, 4.4., 5. and 6 of this law, I am adding this - which must be verified by both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Explanation. Since it is the means that comply with the provisions of Article 8(3). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina represents the funds of the extraordinary revenues of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the funds intended primarily for the needs of the even development of Bosnia and Herzegovina for which the necessary decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are to be determined, then it is logical that Parliament makes a final decision on the realisation and use of these funds. amandman ii, I propose that in Article 7 behind the word of the law, instead of the point, the point of the text is added – which must be verified in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I will remind you, Article 7 says: the governments of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska will bring in appropriate programmes and other acts for the use of concession funds for the purpose of Article 4, Article 5 of point 7 of this law. So I suggest adding this position in which the parliamentary assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is sought. And add to this article a new item 3 that reads – the total maximum amount that can be borrowed from each entity cannot exceed the amount of 12.5% of the assets in item 1 of this article. I don't need to read a particular explanation, it's just like this one. I propose Amendment III to delete Article 9 and he says this – the Council of Ministers and entity governments undertake to use at least 10% of the funds intended for development to finance development, so the development funds will be used to finance development, human resources for a new entrepreneurial society, education in the field of IT technologies. So 10% for a new modern society, and 90% for old-fashioned society. I would also suggest that Amendment IV in Article 5, paragraph 7, be changed and read – so the funds directly support pension funds of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska for the reconciliation of a certain amount of unsettled pension commitments that are shared in proportion to the number of pensioners. The explanation - all pensioners in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be even in the division of the funds of the succession. There were these four amendments of mine, and your attitude to the amendments will depend on my direct view of the law. Thank you very much. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1484	I thank my esteemed colleague Špirić. Mr. Munib Jusufović would like to explain his 3 amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1485	Data explanations by Mr. Minister in several explain the situation, but for the first amendment I would like an even clearer answer if I knew if I would stay with him. In Article 2, the law on the means of succession will be used, among other things, by the latter. The consolidation of the entity's budget to settle certain unsettled commitments resulting from 31.12. In 2000. What they do is I know if I'm staying. If those are the clarifications I've come to understand, then it's already changing. That's why you'd have to get an answer for this, so you'd decide what to do next. Keep going. In Amendment II, there are already certain things that I should say about the dilemma. Amendment III is similar to the amendment given by Mr Špirić. I don't know what the amendment is. Therefore, in a certain way these two amendments can be one, because in me it stands to be the position of Article 10(2), it is amended to read - that the Council of Ministers regularly informs the Parliamentary Assembly of the use of these funds and, if necessary, will request prior approval. Okay. It can stay that way. It's similar. There are mostly two homes in the river here, but the Parliamentary Assembly is known to have two homes. Practically Article 4 continues to apply to me that means a principled position is that we are absolutely not for spending on current commitments and I normally stay on this for principled reasons, but after these clarifications some things can be slightly and differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1486	I would like to ask for clarification and opportunity for the honourable amendment's proposal, Munib Jusufović, to take a position on the amendment to have an explanation. Here you go. This is a direct question. We're not done, please don't. We have a debate here on the amendments. Given that the amendment's proposed defacto position of its amendment will at all go with those amendments conditioned by the Council of Ministers' representative, I ask the Council of Ministers' representative to take a position.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1487	So it's about the obligations that have been inherited. Not current obligations, but obligations from previous periods. Thus, the consolidation of the budget through the reconciliation of commitments from previous periods until the end of 31.12.2000. The obligations relating to 2001 cannot be covered by this, it is liquid consumption. That's the key criterion. It's not liquid consumption and it's very important to point out. It means cleaning up old responsibilities. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1488	Are you satisfied with the answer? I'd like to request your statement for a stenogram. Excuse me, Minister. So you're giving up some amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1489	If I understand correctly that I explain in my own way, and you're going to say if it's t, if I get it right. Which means that these are the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina had as a way of saying an integral whole, and these debts are practically break through entities or relate to an entity either this or that, and now these are those debts. They're not current obligations. All right, I'm giving up that amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1490	What amendment? Number.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1491	amandman I..
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1492	Well, Amendment II, you're staying on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1493	You could do it now. I'm staying, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1494	No, I'm not talking about the debate. We will open the amendments that the envoy withdraws, there is no debate at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1495	And Amendment IV is Article 11. I don't see any reason to remind him yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1496	Amendment IV is an integral part of the text of the law since it corresponds to the House of Representatives. You have three amendments at this stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1497	One moment further clarification of Article 11 of this IV amendment, and possibly so. It means using the concession funds for the purposes of Article 4(7) of this Act, Article 11. The Council of Ministers as an asset giver and government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska as beneficiaries of the funds. We've concluded, so these are credit-based closing agreements with the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1498	108 I thank Jusufović. I would ask the secretary just to clarify the procedure and to clarify with the envoy who kept the amendment for further discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1499	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1500	My amendment refers to Article 4(3), in which I request that the formation of credit and credit risk-providing funds for loans and guarantees of export-oriented and small medium-sized enterprises in BiH, and the lending and subsidisation of agricultural producers amount to 118,608,537,00 KM, in so doing, points 5 and 7 are deleted, so that point 6 becomes point 5. I think that in my argument, I have expressed my view, I believe that pension and disability funds should not go to the reconciliation of old commitments from the budget, as well as to the settlement of previously unsettled pension and disability obligations, and that these funds should go exclusively into the development project. Thank you. I'm opening an amendment debate. Who's reporting for a debate over the amendments? Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1502	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have only today been given the opportunity to see the integrated and consolidated text of this law on the purpose and use of the assets that Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the agreement on the issues of succession of the former SFRY. In the debate on the principles or principles of this law, I was talking about the additional 130 million KMs, which are now cca 130 million KMs, which are now described in Article 3(1) of this Act, and this is about the value of the money surplus funds and the accounts of the National Bank of the former SFRY. So the purpose of my discussion was to do so. I still believe that these funds should not be covered by this law, because this law should cover these funds currently available, that is, cca of these 150 million KMs. However, in order for me to be precise about this law, there is one thing under which I can't really go as an MP, and my goal is for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to pass this law and my goal is to have the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, even if a few days before the end of this year has done a budget rebalance and to ensure the financing of its institutions. My question concerns the ministry of the Treasury in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and concerns these 130 million KMs that have been added to the law. From this text, I knew earlier and had the fact that these assets from entity 65 to 35 percent are given as credit funds to users. There was a new moment pointed out by Dr. Genjac, and this new moment is one very important moment for a full understanding of things at least from my point of view, which is that these 130 million-state assets are being allocated to entities, but also on a credit basis. So these are the funds that the state will deploy in this ratio as loans to entities, entities to deploy as loans to users, users to return or return to entities as far as I understand and entities to return to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If so, and from this consolidated text referred to in Article 8 paragraph 2 paragraph 2 that is the result. Because it is said that the concession funds of Article 4, and these are these funds of this law, will be allocated so that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 65%, while Republika Srpska has 35% of these credit-based funds. If so, then it will change my relationship with this law, because these are the funds that will be returned to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would ask the minister to confirm here at the pay phone if this is what this is like, whether it's interpreted like this. So I'm interpreting it this way, I think this is the only possible interpretation after I get this text, but for security reasons, I'd ask the minister to once again attach this credit base here to the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1503	I'm thanking you. Please Minister, I think it's useful to make this clarification more specific to the possibility of a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1504	Yeah, I just want to confirm that it's a concept. So in this way, we will ensure that the use of funds, the end use, is profitable and ensures the integrity of the funds. So credit relations from the Council of Ministers towards entity governments and end-users who will use credits. Of course, this will be a revolving relationship, so it should be understood that these funds will not be returned to the state level after some time and stand there infertile, unused, but will be automatically renewed and maintained, and constantly in the same credit relationship. That's our intensity. And we'll do it through the Central Bank, through the business banks, based on instructions and procedures that the Council of Ministers will determine. That's right, that's right. Yes, the funds are in the account of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1505	I thank the esteemed minister. Mr Špirić answered the word and then Mr Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1506	Ladies and gentlemen, of course there can be this approach if an agreement is reached, and I will read you a passage that reads – the funds of the succession from Article 4 of this law will be distributed to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 65%, and to Republika Srpska 35% of these funds on a credit basis. Then if you've achieved it. Article 7(2) If you've reached such a political agreement, then it's too much for you to mention entities at all. You can mention business entities and it's not exactly if they're crediting that logic to this paragraph. It can be interpreted that way, but I'm asking you to tell me if you've reached such a political agreement. Then there's really no need to burden the text at all with the governments of the entity and the government of the Federation. It could be directly credited. There is, if there is a political and economic problem. It's very important. If it is determined to governments that the funds that are fertilized through interest on the premises of any entity of the region or canton are returned there to 110 accounts from where they are sent, not the central account. It's very important which mass of resources increase. Then it loses the meaning of the economic existence of the entity absolutely. Because here entities serve only as locations of economic operators, so only as locations. Financial rent based on interest collects a central account and it's a matter of agreement. I don't argue that it's part of a solution or a complete solution. But you have to tell me who you've agreed with. It's strong, it is, it can be a solution, it can be another solution, but I'm interested in whether it's agreed. Because then why should the governments of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska be mentioned. Then why can't Bosnia and Herzegovina define what economic operators are in its capital space for Bosnia and Herzegovina and have that passivity that it's so simple. If a deal was reached, I would beg to be told where such an agreement was reached. If achieved, where was such an agreement reached? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1507	Thank you. Does the minister want to answer? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1508	So there's a deep economic logic here. Therefore, the Council of Ministers does not want to regulate the criteria for the use of these development funds. It leaves it to the entities. So we're going to make a contract between the entity and the Council of Ministers and say we place 130 million to 20 years at an interest rate of 0.7%. The purpose of these funds will be determined by the entity government, so Republika Srpska will have all the funds in agriculture, and the Federation in industry or solving carbon problems, and I don't know what I'm Caricating, but I want to say that this is exactly how we decentralised the decision on development programmes, development needs, and we're putting the entity in an active position to implement their constitutional position. Because we have development at both state and entity level and finally and at canton and community level, let each one perform its function.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1509	I thank the Honorable Minister. The word is "if." You won't be angry. Mr. Turjačanin has a lot of reasons why I prefer the chairman. Among other things, one of the business ones, when the chairman of the Council of Ministers appears, is given his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1510	I'm thanking you. First, I think it's very important here to say behind this pay phone where that deal was reached. It's very important to say, no matter where that agreement was reached. The important thing is that this agreement has been reached and that it actually says that this agreement has been reached and that that is how they actually write what is before you. So the first deal was reached. And this is just an interpretation that Mr. Domazet gave to clarify some of the dilemmas that existed earlier. But so that this wouldn't remain inexplicable, when the House of Representatives had its meeting 20 days ago, the same thing was about the key point here. Those who have followed the entire course of this law may notice 111 that this law came to the House of Representatives in the form in which in points 4, and then in points 5 and 7 they are exactly the same as you have before them, except that the House of Representatives has adopted these points 4, 5 and 7, he added the words on a credit basis, which has just resulted in an amendment from the debate that has been offered by the House of Representatives to adopt this unanimously on the basis of the fact that it is the development funds that will be used exclusively on a credit basis. The reason Minister Domazet spoke was one of the reasons. There are other reasons that are mentioned in the talks. First of all, it is possible not only to enable entities to part of these funds, to be precise from around 130 million, and to locate according to their development programmes again on a credit basis and again as a credit obligation to the Council of Ministers, or to the Central Bank. And the other reason is that entities are the ones that have already developed institutions that can do that. And the third reason was because it's good to know that here. Because I think this is the point we can reach a consensus on. I think it's very important, perfectly natural, it's the home of the people that accepts or does not accept this today. And it is the House of the Peoples who have responsibility for accepting or not accepting. But I think we've come to a point where there's still a willingness to come to this by consensus. I think it's very important to come to this by consensus. It's not only important to adopt this, it's that we all think in the same categories when it comes to this. I'm obliged to say that they're 20% of the funds that are for old obligations. I'm obliged to say that I wish we didn't have to. But I also owe you a stenogram to say. What you see in front of you, this is not a fruit of any blackmail. This is not the fruit of anything anyone sees as blackmail. This is the fruit of our mutual knowledge after a long, long time. That this is the best way to get out of this. And I have to admit that 20% of the resources for old commitments, because it's necessary for the House to know that, it's quite the opposite of what international financial institutions are asking us to do. International financial institutions are asking us to give everything into old obligations. And that's why we need consensual support for those of us sitting here to be one side, not two or three sides, and on the other hand to be international institutions that have their own interests. You know we have demands to go into old obligations. Old credit obligations, old foreign exchange savings, old pensions and all obligations that come to us in credit to international financial situations. I therefore urge you to all misunderstandings, all the misunderstandings that exist between us to clarify them and to try to come to something that means a common vision of us who should hold water for the next 10 years, because we will in the next 10 years, with God's help, if there is health here, we will exchange ourselves as the authorities of the opposition in different forms and we should not dispute over this. That's why we left this so that no government, no government, no Council of Ministers, no entity government, can spend this. It's just that only this 80% of the funds are used as means to cost money for development, to cost money. And I think it would be a big deal if today the House of the People, as Mr. Šimić said, were what happened at the end of the score. I think the goal is empty and you're shooting foam now. The score is 0-0. I think it would be good if, together, we all look forward to this result today, because the alternative to what Minister Domazet was talking about was the financial blockade of both entities, the financial blockade of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, putting Bosnia and Herzegovina on the debt list together with Afghanistan and Iraq, and a complete block of 112 further construction, and especially the functioning of the current institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I say responsibly, this most responsible claim is not the biggest damage, the biggest damage would be that foreign investors who started to turn to Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country that acts stablely would start to look at us in other eyes. I am also responsible here as foreign minister that the best message given to foreign investors is the news that the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, adopted this proposal unanimously. It was the best message, and I think that this law today is not just for us to decide on this conflict, but rather for us to decide whether Bosnia and Herzegovina has institutions that are ready to make this country financially, politically and institutionally stable. The decision is up to you, but we were obliged to tell you that this is an important decision and that it doesn't matter as much to me personally as the Council of Ministers' Chairman in one of these capital matters, more importantly, to come to this as possible by consensus, than to adopt this alone. I don't think anyone has any reason to take responsibility for the failure, but it's much more important to come by consensus. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1511	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I give my word with late apologies to Mr. Turjačanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1512	I will accept an apology only if I know Mr. Džaferović has asked for further clarification from the Secretary-General, not from the President of the Council of Ministers, and I assume this is a session of the House of Peoples, not by the Council of Ministers when it comes to the priorities of giving words. That's all in the notice. I thought the search for Mr. Džaferović was too high in the text, but further interpretation of the Secretary-General is now bringing me back to the dilemma. Excession funds, Article 2(2), point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 7(1) – the grant funds of Article 4 of this law will deploy to the Federation of BiH 65% and to Republika Srpska 35% of these funds on a credit basis. And then Mr. Resort's minister continues the text by rescheduling to go in the same ratio. I think the remark, in my opinion, is as ordinary as a citizen, as the father of a small child who wants to stay in this space, is a highly non-quality remark. And I guess some renewal will be based on profitable relations, not on the constant definition of relations. So if someone loses at 65%, you keep giving him 65%, if someone loses 35% of them all the time not to tell you, I don't think it's rational or healthy reasoning in any other way that we don't say a credit arrangement renewal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1513	Thank you, dear fellow Turjačanin. The business chairman has the opportunity to give the word to the guests at any moment and I would have asked Mr. Džaferović first simply for clarification - are you satisfied with the answer? That's how we solved the dilemma. Mr. Momčilo Novaković picked up the phone. No, I think it's good to have clarifications. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1514	So you see, as the World Bank provides development projects to Bosnia and Herzegovina and then says 2/3 to the Federation, 1/3 to the Republika Srpska via the state, via Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's how we want to establish one relationship. So it will be a relationship in which entities will have precise, precisely distributed funds for their functions, and these funds that we have at the Council of Ministers level will be used by all companies from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if, theoretically, 100% of the companies that meet all the conditions of Republika Srpska appear, and these n meet the Federation, they will use them without any administrative distribution. You have to accept that. It's the logic of the relationship we're building here. I can now tell you that there is a strong institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is IGA-sponsored by the World Bank. 50 per cent of the IGE funds are used by Republika Srpska companies, as the key to these funds is profitability. So it's a free game, and here we do distribution in some way administratively whether. Here's an explanation. We need to be consistent in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1515	Mr. Turjačanin. I'm sorry, Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1516	I don't think I spoke from this pay phone either the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Republika Srpska, but I was just talking about a healthy development credit to not tell the concepts. I mean, you wouldn't want to see my discussion from this pay phone differently. And yet I say you've left me quite unrealized what it is that 100% will go according to quality loans, and what is it that will constantly go 65 and 35 percent in continuous repetition?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1517	Okay, I think we could finally give Mr. Novaković a word that wants to get involved in the amendment debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1518	My fellow delegates, this one seems to be approaching the finale of this debate, which is why one question I would like to clarify here before the vote itself. Mr Špirić's IV amendment is an extremely important amendment to the decision of the Serbian people's club on the whole law here. That's why I want to suggest to my fellow delegates as well as to the Council of Ministers that they respect this amendment and thus create room for this law to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1519	Does the Council of Ministers have any opinion on this amendment or does it want to? Here you go. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1520	So, I don't know the Rules of Procedure anymore, if I know him, if I don't know him, but as I read him, as I understand him, the amendment that Mr. Špirić submitted today couldn't stand. Because within a short period of 24 hours before the session, an amendment must be submitted, following the session of the commission and the examination of the committees of the day, has arrived. That's why I'm asking if the amendments are now being submitted, because I don't think that's in line with the Rules of Procedure, huh.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1521	I'd just like to clarify. We need to check with the president of the commission, the amendment if it wasn't on the committee, it's not valid. I'd ask the secretary to check this one out. Only the amendments that were on the committee, and rejected, have the right to the envoys in 24 hours. Yes, it is. I'm taking a five-minute break, just to clarify this fact, and then we'll get back to work. Please, five minutes. We're not going anywhere from here. The break was created around the validity of the amendments tabled by distinguished Mr Nikola Špirić. This was related to amendments 3 and 4.. The konsultacija with the president of the commission found that these amendments were not on the commission in the original form, but could not have been on the commission since the Commission did not consider this text of the law. Thus, pursuant to Rule 89(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the College used its parliamentary capacity to allow for the investment of amendments and in the course of the debate when it concerns new aspects which could not be taken into account in the overall procedure. So we're going to make a statement about these amendments. I think this is good. It would not be good if for procedural reasons, and the fact is that in the whole procedure we really had such amendments to the House of Representatives who defacto had completely changed the content of this law and that it was really about new aspects. Is anyone else answering for a word about the amendment debate? I'd ask. Here you go, Mr. Minister. It was a question of the minister from before, so the minister wanted clarification. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1522	I must say that the constitutional basis of participation is, therefore, in carrying out obligations, but also in demand when it comes to entities set in proportion 1/3 to 2/3 of the Republika Srpska Federation. In this case, the proposed criterion is unacceptable because we do not define the funds for the purposes in which these funds will be used in the entity's budgets, but the text lists only illustratingly, illustrating what they could be used for. So it's about the old obligations that entity budgets have, not the precise definition of pensions, or other specific obligations. In that sense, I think that this proposed amendment is unacceptable and that it must remain on this ratio at 2/3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1523	Thank you for your very clear view. Here you go, Mr. Spahić. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1524	Okay. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to say that to me, I had a problem with the chair, including Lagumdžija, but the most important thing is that Mr. Domazet had a great solution to this thing. Well, I, uh, I have to take one of his chairs, and I, uh, I've had enough of that. Let me tell you. It's time to clear one thing up. I very much respect what Domazet has explained now because, in fact, man has reached the starting point. He returned to the beginning of the debate on that budget rebalancing, where I said that nothing in politics should prejudge, especially through television. It's a very influential medium. And you see the whole debate has been about it, and I think that Mr. Špirić is probably going to give up his amendment, because it's essentially the last thing in principle, because if there was no consensus, if there was no constitutional basis they wouldn't have given me, first of all, that it's a constitutional basis quite okay to pass the law, they wouldn't have supported the law in principle, they wouldn't be able to talk about the debate in articles. Because it has to be some concept of the law. That concept of law must rest on something. In order to explain why I think this law should be supported after the debate on articles, there is only one sentence for which I have praised this approach to Mr Domazet's response, the question to me is what were the criteria. Because it's me, because there are so-called. a double track of decision-making and prediction. People try to put out the fire, then solve some problems. And normally they don't have patience, excursions before and general solutions why something will use funds that haven't even been approved yet. Because these funds aren't even approved, because those funds aren't approved, because those funds aren't even approved until we pass the law. That's right. That's the point. So politics doesn't always need to be chased, you have to go a little bit like a turtle, not like a rabbit. You get here before you're a turtle, but you're a rabbit with a lot of things. But his very important note, which is why I support this debate without any further amendment, is contained in the fact that the very thorough position of these funds is to be rotated. So it's going to be an ort of funds. Finally, the state will function, have some flow of funds. It's a key category of our minister's economic doctrine. And I think that's good. I told them a long time ago that they needed ministers like that to take responsibility for working in the state and I mean, except for these other professions that are interesting to me. I would like to say why I support this law without any interventions after the debate in articles. Because there's one line in the answer in point 3. It reads this way – it should point out that developmental means of succession do not have the support of the IMF in translation, our key partners in the self-sustainable economy in the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not support the development flow of these funds and their concentration in any way, regardless of whether the word is 84% or 1% or anyone else. Why do I support this approach? Because I think it's a Faith approach in this case of one government, one Council of Ministers and a minister to defend what a doctrine rests on, which is without investment and without such access to credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina would be difficult to get any kind of breath, not oxygen. There's no step to any of the next ones we'd make. So the fact is that we now have one information that has long been present, so one day already 24 hours that the IMF and the IMF do not support in any way what Tokić, Spahić, Lagumdžija, Domazet or any other, is the fact that we really need to build one unique view of this and we need to ensure that at least what we can do to our partners, we push at this point. And we can push it to let the international community know that simply this state cannot afford itself by paying the debts of all of us and by sending social problems. So I suggest, my concrete debate, I suggest to you your colleagues and my colleagues that they give up the amendments that essentially do not block this document and that we go to the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1525	Thank you. I think the debate is exhausted, the debate is not exhausted. Here you go, Mr. Ilić. We're discussing amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1526	Please, we're trying to find a solution that will lead to the adoption of the law. That is why I have asked that we do not slave too much procedure, but here we have agreed, and we have also found in the Rules of Procedure a foothold so that we can make amendments, so even after the deadline that has passed the Commission's review of the amendments. I think the exit here is at point 7. If the text reads after this explanation was given by Mr. Minister. And I suggest that this article reads, that this point is like this -- support for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska's budget to settle a certain amount of previously unmistakable liabilities compared to 2/3 for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 1/3 for Republika Srpska in total. This is deleted for pensions, disability and other purposes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1527	Mr. Ilić, do you realize you're the one who's making the amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1528	I beg you, Mr. Chairman, it's the only way out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1529	I'd only ask you in writing to formulate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1530	It'll be easy to formulate it if you accept it, but I'm asking you to accept this way out.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1531	Mr. Ilić will if you wish to submit an amendment. There's a debate coming up, ask for a break. That's the investment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1532	117 What do I need to make an amendment if you won't accept it? If you agree to accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1533	Mr. Ilić, I really can't understand that anyone can expect it, I was just before the Council of Ministers and asked the Presidency not to ask for an opinion in advance whether it would be adopted or not, and now the envoy wants to submit an amendment, but he would only invest if he was sure that he would be accepted. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1534	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course fate will be as the delegates say this legal project, I am a legalist. In front of the public's eyes to tell the pensioners that for a month, a month is exactly a month someone is playing to win today, or to get a pension tomorrow. And when I offered to be directly, so no middleman. We don't have any formal legal impediments to the number of pensioners from the grant funds, it's not already agreed. I mean, it's not good to create such an atmosphere in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and however most of my decision is to respect the majority's position. But I don't think it was good, it wasn't appropriate, it wasn't polite to that category of population to say that we need today to declare that they're going to get it, and when it's said to indicate that it's for them, it's not that. I'm not for that principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1535	Can we close the debate? Here you go, Mr. President. I can only give a break if you're looking for her, and I would beg you not to look for her. Use that break well at the same time. Ten minutes break, but please take 10 minutes. Before we can continue to inform that the College has reached agreement that after this session we will hold an emergency session of the House of Peoples which would have only one item of the agenda – Ratification of the agreement that is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is bound by the deadline. That's what the Bureau in writing asked us to do, and you're getting that material, so I'd like to ask for your understanding. Is anyone answering for a word after all these breaks regarding the debate on Mr Jusufović's amendments, Mr Špirić and Mr Tokić's amendments? Mr. Jusufović wants to take the floor. We don't have any new amendments, do we? There isn't. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1536	So first, let me say that this amendment that remains in me has not been cleared since it has an extremely similarity to this amendment of yours, so I'm joining. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1537	That applies to the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1538	I think it was IV. In you, so there's practically no reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1539	amandman II. You're a good quitter for Amendment II. and Amendment III.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1540	I'm gone, this is cleared. In short, I would like to say that today's debate has been extremely constructive, although the problems are very complicated and the complex matter has been and you're side by side I think that a series of issues have been resolved, cleared. Although it remains for me, the truth in the Club we have had a meeting with not a lot of these dilemmas, but for me there remains a dilemma fundamentally that we have principledly stopped behind that there can't be anything, not a single brand of current consumption, although I am told a lot of things, but for principle reasons I'm probably going to have to vote differently, but I'm saying that many things are resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1541	I thank Mr. Jusufović. Is anyone else answering for word? He's not answering. I find that, in the procedure for the declaration, amendments I to Mr Špirić, Amendment II, without the attitude of the second, of which Mr Špirić, Amendment III and Amendment IV and Amendment i Tokić, which refers to Article 5 of this new text, point 3 and is the amount of the funds 108,359.292.00. Can we close the debate? I'm closing the debate on the amendments and we're approaching the vote. Amendment and Mr Špirić to Article 8. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? – 5 Who is against this amendment? - 8 Who Is Restraint? I figure the amendment didn't go through, didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment II to Mr Špirić refers to Article 7. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? Who is against the above-mentioned amendment? - 7 Who's abstentioned? - 2 abstentions I konstatuj that even this amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment III refers to Article 9 defacto to delete Article 9. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? Who is against the above-mentioned amendment? Who's being held back? Two abstentions, eight against. 119 I find that this amendment has not received the necessary majority. Amendment IV of Mr Špirić to the law. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? – 4 Who is against this amendment? Who's being held back? - Three to three abstentions seven against. I also find that this amendment has been rejected and has not received the necessary majority. Amendment i Tokić to Article 5(3) Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? Who is against the above-mentioned amendment? - 8 Who's abstentioned? - 3 I find that this amendment has also received the required majority. The conditions have been met to declare the law on the purpose and use of the assets that Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the agreement on the bank's concession issue for international alignments in Basel. Who's in favor of that law? I ask the envoys to approach the vote. - Seven for who's against it? - 5 Who's abstentioned? - 2 I find that the law has received the necessary majority. We're moving on to an entity statement. Who's from the Federation for? - 7 I find that the law has received the necessary majority in the Federation. Who's from Republika Srpska for? – No Niko I Konstatuj has received the amendment, the law has not received the necessary majority in Republika Srpska. Can we access the alignment? I'm asking for a break of 10 minutes. On Monday at 10 am, I schedule an extension of this session. Please check that you have received all the materials of the next session in which there will be only one item of the agenda, related to the agreement, also after the end of this session. I thank you for your cooperation, but in the meantime, the College will probably agree. It's the 13th session on Monday. It'll take a while. The seat was interrupted at 1810 hours. 120 I suggest we start with the follow-up of the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we are at the 17th point of the agenda of Ad. 17. The law on the purpose and use of the property that Bosnia and Herzegovina receives under the Agreement You have the full name of the law in your material, interrupted after we were in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as a Kogius must access the alignment of the text of this law. The alignment lasted a few minutes, and that's why you don't have a letter. I am obliged to inform you that the members of the College have not reached agreement on the text of the conflict law. In accordance with the business provisions, we approach the second round of pleas. From Republika Srpska who is the law on the purpose and use of the text as proposed by the Council of Ministers? Who's against the law, excuse me? – 5 I find that the concession law did not go through in this, the concessions did not go through and did not get most, or is no longer in the procedure in this home. You received information on the alignment of the two other laws that were the subject of this session. I'll remind you it's about the Demining Act and it's about the Statistics Act. Those laws have been agreed and I think you have received a written report, given that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on the report prior to the 18th item of the agenda, I am giving a break of 10 minutes to consult with representatives of the Council of Ministers concerning the next item of the agenda. Thank you. Representatives' delegates, the respected chairman of the presidency, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers at the Council of Ministers, are going with further implementation of the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The remaining items of the agenda are - Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international obligations in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001, first reading, proposer of the Presidency and 121 - the Rebalans budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina International Obligations for 2001, first reading, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. It is in the usual parliamentary practice for these two points to come together and conduct the debate together, and if you don't mind, I would start by realising these two points of the agenda. Whether the motion for the Bureau or possibly on behalf of the Treasury's Presidency. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Minister of Treasury Ante Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1543	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed presidency, esteemed Mr. Bureau member, the distinguished representatives of this high house, ladies and gentlemen. The need to rebalance the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget has come to light because the adopted budget in March 2001 was indeed some compromise solution that could not withstand the dynamics of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions during 2001. So this whole period has been spent preparing rebalancing and I have to say that it was a very difficult activity in which some magical triangle of the Ministry Council of the IMF was developing. The IMF kept a reserve on this rebalancing until the last day. He simply wouldn't let us show up until the end of November when we said we were going, even if we didn't reach an agreement with the IMF. But in the meantime, the IMF supported it and I can say that in that sense we have full consistency. We had big negotiations with the entities. We finally managed to find some compromise solution. I can give you wider information. I have a special exposé prepared about it, but I think it is crucial to point out that in this budget we have applied a new planning methodology, so we have also included donations and grants so that we have a budget increase of around 24.8% or 22.8 million, and the rest of the around 34 million represents an increase resulting from a real increase in budget revenues, i.e. expenditure. Now the latest situation related to the Succession Act is reflected on this proposal in the next – a proposal for rebalancing in the next sense. Since these funds are uncertain, the expenditures based on them will simply be frozen. So we propose, it is the presidency's proposal to adopt a rebalancing in the planned, proposed elements, to keep the revenue-side item of the surplus revenue, in the divisive side of the expenditure that is based on it. I would like to mention that these are expenditures relating to old commitments of 4.6 million, then the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for international associations and other organisations of 7,750,000.00 and the remaining 9 million relate to one-off expenditures such as. Funding refugee returns, access to the World Trade Organisation, passport making, passports, etc. what you have specified in your materials. If there are certain questions I have, we are prepared to give answers to them. Thank you very much. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1544	Any requests to clarify the question? Mr. Turjačanin, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1545	Dear members of the Bureau, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, fellow delegates. I am now interested in an explanation here whether it was a mistake of the service they provided to me, meaning the law that was held at the 111st session, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2001 and dated from the 111st session in September, and again I have September 2001, although the Bureau session was in the 11th month.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1546	Any more questions, then yes. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1547	Honored members of the presidency, fellow delegates, respected members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, we are now in a high-quality new situation in which we would like to say all this is fine and continue a process that is unseen in parliamentary democracy. Where else do you get into rebalancing unless there's a secure source? What other state in the world is making a rebalance on an insecure source? And how is it possible that a law that didn't pass just now is back in the structure of income and expenditure in rebalancing? Whether it means that there will be no changes, but that will continue the system of persuasion and demand for different parliamentary and extraparliamentary manifestations in which we would cover what we want to cover with both the law on succession and this rebalancing. Why is this going to cost Bosnia and Herzegovina, first of all, I want to say, I want to say because it's not about budget rebalancing means there has to be a safe source of revenue based on which to cover the expenditures. Who knows in advance what kind of deal it's gonna be? I'd like to be told how it's possible to rebalance on some future deal. That's one thing. The second thing is donations and trade grants that entered the structure of the budget that we are not sure will be wider next year on the basis of the 2002 budget, for 2003, and the rate of social product growth in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not able to monitor the pace. These stories will be repeated year after year until Bosnia and Herzegovina makes a budget suitable for its economic strength. Everything else is in the imagination zone of various parliamentary debates, mutual accusations, pressures, etc. So I'm interested in how it's possible to rebalance without safe income? And to leave it exactly by structure as he offered a law that did not pass the parliamentary debate. The second thing, as it is possible that over 90% of the rebalancing funds are related to the old ones, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina would say, while only 2,700,000 out of 60 million refer to newly established institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I want to draw attention to your attention to the International Crisis Group's report of 29 November 2001, of course I read, this also comes to my attention, I read attitude 4, where the OHR is said to be -- the title is Bosnia and Herzegovina, redefine international machinery, -- the OHR also needs to (a) intensify efforts to give the state as many functional central institutions as possible to justify and finance in 123 in line with the Dayton provisions. So as much as you can finance, not as much as any of us would want, and there's no way. That's that trunk where we always fall apart between our political desires. And I want it politically, and I want unrealistic economic opportunities. That's what people warn us about. That's what creates a part of political anarchy and confusion, opens confrontations where they shouldn't be opened. I beg you, therefore, if I am given an answer as to how it is possible for the new institutions, here we have the call for new ones, that they spend the ipsod 10% this year. So just 2,700,000.00. I am to cover the newly created institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a rebalancing 100%. There's no dilemma, and there's no dilemma that there's gotta be a rebalancing. But where I have a dilemma. Which this House never got the strength to rebalance. He is eternally moved to take or leave in the last wave. And now look at the wonderful wonder. On the 24th, if you are against the rebalancing and the conflict law you are against Bosnia and Herzegovina, you are against the common institutions, against this and against that. Will Parliament get a chance to debate the rebalancing. All that change in rebalancing gives a warning that something is wrong that it is not good to adopt it as it is packaged, that we have the consent of all international factors etc. If that's the case, ladies and gentlemen, we're too expensive for such a poor country. It's better for the delegates to sit at home and mail their consent to anything the cabinet informs them that they've arrived at their office. We're very expensive, because we're not able to fight for any change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1548	At this stage, I would ask what is directly related to the issues to be decided as the House after Domazet's reply, the Minister of Honor of the Council of Ministers on how to conduct the debate, i.e. the possibility of pleading on budget rebalancing after the Succession Act has not received the necessary majority here. So for this we need to have a kind of political agreement because so far it has always been a common package in all the discussions. Does anyone else have any questions? Mr. Turjačanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1549	I again report to the distinguished fellow delegates after the discussion of Co-President Špirić, I do not know whether to call this a misquote or a misinformation, etc., but in the material delivered to us at the 9th month o.g. in the budget rebalancing, the material that has been delivered by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency stands, says – the projection of these revenues must be treated as an optimistic variant because they remain in suspense, and in particular (a) the transvfer of revenue on the activities of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, the transfer of revenues based on overflights through BiH and the particular problem of a timely decision on the allocation of funds from the succession, where the amount of 8 million KM has already been defined. So the nominal values that we discussed at the previous agenda point were obviously already defined in some way in September of last year, and I am still interested in the Presidency, or the present member of the Presidency, Mr. Chairman, to explain these moments to us regarding these things that are now appearing before us as delegates. Thank you. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1550	If there are no more questions, I would ask the chairman or the minister to give an answer. Here you go. The chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, Mr Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1551	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected envoys, respecting their constitutional position and commitment, the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has really begun the procedure in due time for the adoption of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for the current year. I think you have had the opportunity to discuss very widely at previous meetings the problem of the context of the concession law and all these budget problems of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, as the esteemed envoy here mentioned to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, he therefore headed in as a proposal, referred to the parliamentary procedure of the draft budget rebalancing this year. However, some of the problems that have arisen later, first and foremost, as a consequence of saying there is no original financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus bringing it into contact with the entity's budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in their agreement with the IMF and the World Bank, have opened new problems and to say simply a practical situation in which Mr. Domazet can say created the need to withdraw the proposal from the procedure and everything to say back 20 days took an agreement with both entities and international institutions on the possibility of contracting entities, entities in the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the reason for the withdrawal of the original proposal and all those reserves the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina made at that time, referring to the proposal. I think Mr. Domazet can give more of these details, and I'm sure with this observation Mr. Špirić made here. Those remarks really stand and they are irrefutable for one condition to say normal states. Unfortunately, we haven't done that yet. No, first of all, I say again because we have an objective growth of not only new institutions, but the capacity and intensity of existing institutions. We have, as you know, deplaced budget levels already passed in 3 months this year when it was immediately known that this budget would not be able to endure. We have, as I said, undefined original incomes from the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the budget, and we have a situation as economically as we have, and we are all told today that it concentrates on one of these situations to discuss a very delicate subject in such a teat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1552	I thank the esteemed chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, Mr. Križanović. I suppose Minister Domazet can answer some questions that are yes. 125
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1553	First of all, I am very sorry that the honourable MP Mr Turjačanin received the wrong version of this budget, the budget rebalancing because the latest version was dated at the end of November. Secondly, when it comes to security of income, we must accept the principle that income security has some probability. So, never income is realised in 100% of the amount, and of course, such a situation is related to both our own incomes and those related to donations, grants, transfers from entities, and finally this part of us that we were planning from the grant funds. I want to assure you that not making revenue on the basis of a succession will not cause budget penetration, it will reflect the shift in the implementation of the commitments that should have been financed from these funds. When it comes to health care for new institutions, total allocations for institutions covering the state border service and a number of other new institutions represent a total increase of 33,400,000 marks. I want the esteemed MP Špirić to define those items as follows. 10,500,000 (ten million) are foreseen to increase for the State Border Service, State Court, Archives, Institute of Standards and Measurement, Institute of Credit, Veterinary Office, House of Human Rights, Office of the Ombudsman for Human Rights and Commission for Property Requirements. In addition, the additional amount of donations and grants included in this budget rebalancing, which was not in the 2001 budget, amounts to an additional amount of 15,900,000, so the total amount is 26,400,000. The additional donations here, the difference between additional donations, relates to the Central Regulatory Agency three and a half million and UHN 3.500,000. So basically we can just say that most of the increase in rebalancing is the result of exactly new institutions, because they carry 33.300,000 increases, of the total 47,000,000 and 54,800,000, respectively. Grants expand the base budget. That's true. But our intensities, the Council of Ministers, were to include even grants and donations in the budget to achieve transparency and real insight into what is the general... (new tape)... not to be there or we will eliminate those expenditures or we will finance them from other sources. This is now an open question, as we covered our balance of payments deficit with those 5 billion donations, and now as donations stop, we cover them from our own sources or additional credit debt. So it's a process that we have before us, which we are part of. We can just close our eyes so we don't respect you. I don't think that's necessary. The key question is, I fully agree with MP Špirić is the policy issue of the development of institutions versus the limited resources we have. I apologize, but politics is determined by Parliament. Any law adopted has the effect of forming new institutions, resulting in additional resources for their activation. This must be seen as a fact and we must therefore, we will have the opportunity to show ourselves as constructive creators and policies and resources for its achievement already in the 2002 budget. When a number of new institutions appear, new expenditures and very limited resources. The Council of Ministers will take the view that policies will be possible to realise in the extent that resources allow. And with the rebalancing itself, we found this measure, but the key question is how for the future to be realized. Finally, let me say that this is also about what I informed this house on Friday and that we are doing an analysis of the efficiency of the development of institutions and 126 we are making a project to achieve original revenues for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, we have the data, this proposed budget rebalance makes institutions participate in Bosnia and Herzegovina's social product with 1.43%, while Bosnia and Herzegovina's total budget spending accounts for 50% of the social product. So, no, it's not the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are jeopardising the efficiency and rationality of the distribution of social products, but it's still a problem somewhere else, and I think we need to investigate this very responsibly and establish a rational policy in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1554	I thank Mr. Domazet. Replica. Ambassador Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1555	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I have been present for the fourth year in the joint institutions. It is not the state border service of the new institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The state border service is an institution that is in the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina as long as I remember here for a second or third year. We have read the budget report for the first nine months in which the State Border Service did not penetrate the budget. So how is it possible that for the last 2 months or 3 months she needs a mole not so much funds. That's one thing. Another thing when we will be able to control budget consumers. How could the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina not know what the salaries of individual officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina are? Since there was resistance, even political resistance to establishing new institutions, then the international community found a new model and motivated the creation of institutions with enormously high salaries to revive them. Parliament never talked about it. So even the international community offered the first year that it would cover the work of these institutions with donations, and by the next year it invoiced Budžeta Bosnia and Herzegovina to support it 100%. These are the trunks we're in. We need to look the truth in the eye. I claim that the new institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that were created this year, they are 5 I will read, participate under 10, no matter what 10%. It is Bosnia and Herzegovina's Veterinary Office, it is the Institute for Crediting Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the Institute for Standards and Measurement, intellectual property, it is the Archives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and there are no more new institutions in the past year. They're 2,700,000 marks for rebalancing, and I agree it should go. But I'm curious as to why 3,700,000 or 3,300,000 to the Media Regulatory Agency or the Regulatory Agency. You remember when the Audit Office came in to audit that was the answer, so we're not 100% of the house. You can't control us. The question here is what are the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is managed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is managed by the international community and which is funded. But these are dilemmas, this requires political dialogue and open conversation without fear. This is the problem and this budget, this will be the problem of next year's budget. But if we don't open the story we'll never solve, we'll always be in a dose of doubt who's for Bosnia and Herzegovina, who's against Bosnia and Herzegovina? In Bosnia and Herzegovina, too, in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, everyone must be patient. Someone can't say that a border police officer needs 3,000 marks and a regular officer of 150 marks. Can the state determine that? Can those proportions of 127 be with each other at all? So I'm asking you not to rush the old institutions and newly established institutions. The state border service needs an efficient organization, it needs the kind of state we are. It can't be better or worse. And I'm not against the state border service working to help her, etc. But it can't all be hidden behind the State Border Service. It belongs to old institutions like the ministries. And you can't talk about how new institutions grow to draw budgets. I told the wolf 2,700,000 of the rebalancing projected close to 60 million. What's going on in budget spending isn't clear to me? I'm saying this isn't a matter I don't understand better about. But there's got to be talk about this. And I think we need to stay away from such a way of working that whoever's ready to discuss the budget of the rebalancing of the grant is against the state. That's for the state. He cannot enter a package here in Parliament, take it or leave it. As somewhere, there are brains, and these are ravens that just need to touch and vote. I beg you, my position is therefore for the sake of the public that I will support the rebalancing of newly created institutions in 100% amount and that I am against the rebalancing of old institutions. Let the gentlemen learn to spend as much as he was prescribed at the beginning of the year, if she didn't fight for rebalancing during the year. On the same basis, those before us are accused of being criminals because they failed in late December or January to cover themselves with the parliamentary majority. Who needs that? The Council of Ministers, which seeks rebalancing, is 60% in motion and, of course, it should, if it has the elements of criminal responsibility, report criminally for budget cuts for 36,000 marks. And he's looking for a 60 million rebalancing. Where are we? I don't want to talk about how she was, it wasn't a comfortable situation, not even in previous councils, and they had a tight budget framework dictated by the IMF. He didn't give them his hands off, so spend as much as you want. And I agree that this is a tight framework, but it is not more comfortable for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina either. And they're not more comfortable. They don't get paid, they don't have a pension, etc. And it wasn't human for the Council of Ministers to know about this situation to increase their salary by 800 marks. They knew they'd come into rebalancing. It's a violation. How is it possible if there is no means to raise wages by 800 marks to tell citizens now – you know this is an objective need. I'm for open dialogues and open debates against all alike. I ask you, my position is to support budget rebalancing for new institutions, and I will be abstentioned and I will vote against rebalancing in institutions that have been assigned the budgetary framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1556	I thank Mr. Špirić. So we are under discussion on the necessity and principles on which the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions budget for 2001 and the rebalance of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2001, first reading. I would beg for further discussion. Here's the minister for some clarifications. I would ask the envoys to report for a first-reading debate so we can finish this first reading. 128
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1557	I am obliged to give this esteemed home an explanation of some categories. So we have all the budget users. We can put them in three categories. The first category is newly established institutions. Their increase is indeed 2.3 million in the rebalancing of this budget. The second category is the institutions that were previously established, and now they are experiencing real development. For example. The state border service this year experienced an expansion of 490 people at the beginning of the year, which has now reached 1600 employees. Her budget was 20 million, and now it's proposed 43 million. So it's not a mature institution. It's a development institution that has made some progress every day this year and covered most of the territory. In the next year, she'll have an extra expansion. Her budget next year will be 63 million. So can we treat her as some mature institution that has reached its scale of development? Therefore, the second category, the institutions that were founded earlier, and in this year 2001 had a real expansion, are the largest consumables of increasing the 2001 budget. And only the State Border Service applies to 23 million additional increases, plus institutions such as the Human Rights House, the Ombudsman's Office, the Property Requests Commission, they were founded earlier, but this year the warrant was given by an international institution that they must have such and such a budget. And we're going to simply correct them, because this part of the budget is about 20% of their costs, 80% of them are provided by the international community. And the third category is mature institutions. Those institutions that have existed for a long time. And they're not there, and there's the difference, the situation is different. The Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, for example, had a budget lower in 2001 than in 2000. We had to propose these deviations here with this rebalancing to get away. Here are the additional reasons I thought I needed to give you. So the biggest reason for the increase in this rebalancing is the institutions in expansion. Other institutions that are mature institutions and third ones that are newly established institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1558	I thank the Honorable Minister Domazet. Ambassador Jusufović came to the word, followed by delegate Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1559	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bureau member, Mr. Ministers, fellow delegates, I feel the need to say something about this issue for one of the basic reasons why I was one of the strongest advocates when it comes to the law on succession, or the criterion on the allocation of funds in terms of the conflict law, that such a law should not be passed for the very clear and principled reasons why I was, and the party I represent, whose proposer I am. 129
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1560	We're having a rebalancing debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1561	Well, because it's conditioned with each other, I mean. So for principle reasons, we were against this distribution of funds being allocated to current consumption. After further explanations at that session by Mr. Minister and others who participated, it was to say that I loosened my position, although I was not in favour of such a law in the final vote. Today we have a situation to discuss the rebalancing that is in the first version, or in the first proposal was also conditioned by that law. That's why I'm talking about the law. My position was then, so here to be clear, I speak not as club president on behalf of the club but on my own behalf. My position was back then, so regarding the conflict law, the question of rebalancing is also a huge question of adoption. However, a new proposal came today by the Council of Ministers, which the minister has presented here. He changes the situation in a few ways. Understanding or taking into account this new now proposal and the complexity of the situation in which we are objectively brought, then both those reserves and the hard reserves that I had in a certain way are slightly experiencing some transformation by respecting I say all of this, this situation, the delicateness of the situation, especially the time constraint. What counterpart Špirić was saying about certain things, dilemmas, the matter of analysis in the proposed rebalancing proposal, there is absolutely room and I also agree that we will have to find time to discuss all these positions right here at the House of Parliament. But I repeat once again by realizing the delicacy of the complete situation and the time in which we are discussing and we are particularly present, it must be observed in an extraordinary psychosis. While we are having discussions, we have said this last time that already in a certain way such a heated climate is especially one of those people who are waiting for a month for their own income or wages, in a certain way we are almost all under some kind of charge and a number of other reasons that affect me I want to say that those reserves that I have had very hard reserves about the conflict law, and even this conditionality, means this proposal by the Council of Ministers at the very least won't be against. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1562	I'm thanking you. I understood and so we agreed that in principle the reasoning he gave on behalf of the Council of Ministers, that is, on behalf of the Presidency of the Ministers, that we can discuss this budget rebalancing despite the fact that the conflict law did not go through with the explanation if this...page is not realised that we accepted this argument and would not like to lead, will not be realised. And he gave us a guarantee in that sense, the minister, so we're not going back to the old story. So we're having a debate in the first reading of these two laws. Sir, I'll be Ilić there. I don't think we're going back to the last debate, that's all. 130
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1563	Mr. Chairman of the dom, Mr. Chairman of the Presidency, fellow envoys, Mr. Ministers, doministers, therefore respecting all that we have heard today that we are not really a state as a normal state, because if we were, we would have talked about the Budget Draft for and the Budget Proposal for the following year, and not for 5-6 days before the end of the year, we would have talked about budget rebalancing. Respecting that this year we may be in a position to create and build the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the first time in this year, which is evident from this proposal that several institutions were formed only this year and that they were created and that they had to be provided with the source of funding and funds for their work, but what I cannot accept is that they are the funds that have been approved by the budget again with a delay adopted at the end of the first decade this year, i.e. the first quarter of this year that it has been exceeded and that no one is responsible for it. That is why I would suggest that the House of Nations commits to the proposal that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Treasury in the Council of Ministers should exercise control over budget overruns and establish possible responsibility for non-intentional spending and inform this House accordingly. Therefore, I am willing to respect all these reasons presented by Mr. Domazet on behalf of the Ministry of the Treasury and to support, especially after these guarantees, that it will not significantly affect these missing funds provided for by the law on the distribution of funds from former assets, the former state. I would also like to be allowed by the chairman of only one sentence, so even though I voted against the law, we did not want, neither I nor my colleagues to obstruct or in any other way interfere with the work of institutions nor the adoption of this law. We didn't have as many objections to the distribution of funds as we were prevented from respecting what should be fought throughout that we as delegates are fighting, which is that we have some kind of control over the spending of the funds that was proposed by this amendment. I hope that, in the further fate of that law, it will be taken care of and that we will soon receive a bill that will respect it and that we will be able to vote it out, too, with probably no chance to discuss it, I would like first and foremost to congratulate the delegates of the Croatian people tomorrow's greatest Christian holiday Christmas, to spend it in peace in accordance with tradition with their families and friends, and to you all a happy and successful New 2002.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1564	I thank the honourable envoy Ilić, but I would like to ask you all to leave all congratulations for the end of the session and the next session we will have, because we have agreed that we will have one brief session regarding the verification of the contract regarding this, and the session and discussion on this agenda point have no reason nor business opportunities to use for explanations for your political views from previous sessions. If anyone wants to explain it to the press or anyone else, they have other methods and they don't need to use the session. That's what I'm saying because this debate is starting to look like a debate on why I voted or didn't vote on the conflict law. That's the end point, and we absorbed it a little while ago. For this part of the agenda, the honourable envoy, Mr. Divković Ivo, appeared. Here you go. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1565	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Chairman in particular, I respect your warnings and I greatly appreciate them and I think they are on the line of the Rules of Procedure, but they will still allow you to let me as the chairman of the Croatian Club that with this pay phone congratulations to the Catholics Christmas because he is tomorrow and we will not have the opportunity to sit in the meantime and I must remind you that today is a holiday day for Catholics, it is Christmas Day. It is a day of preparation and it is a common practice not to work on some special projects in parliament when it comes to Catholics. But aware of the political moment in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the vital importance of today's law, which is on the agenda and the proposal for rebalancing, we have come to today's session without any objections and conditions, and here we are trying to make a constructive contribution to the adoption of the proposed laws. We will support the proposed law and rebalancing especially after the clarification of Minister Domazet, who made it very clear what it is really about when it comes to institutions and would say increased requirements in terms of financing institutions in development and new institutions. Especially this developing institution, such as the State Border Service, which is seeking the most funding. It is our view that it would be an unforgivable mistake, and would say both political and moral irresponsibility towards all budget users that at least when it comes to the Croatian Club today we do not support the proposed laws and rebalancing. The citizens of this country rightly expect each and every one of us to take responsibility together and work in the interest of those citizens to whom we are often called from this pay phone. So in the interest of these citizens, we consider this bargaining as a need to support the proposed solutions and repeat our position – we will stand behind the proposed legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1566	I would like to thank Ambassador Divković. Mr. Halid Genjac's esteemed envoy came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1567	Dear colleagues and distinguished guests, whether it's according to the Rules of Procedure or not, I use a rare opportunity and pleasure to congratulate all Catholics by performing Christmas. And I'm taking this opportunity, first of all, to ask Minister Domazet one question, and later I'll discuss it. According to the law on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted by this composition of the House of Peoples, Article 11 says that the Ministry of Treasury transfers neutral funds through specific items, the same items are planned to implement the budget for the coming period, and within the same budget year. Furthermore, especially if, during the financial year, the beneficiary of the budget assesses whether a correction of the cost structure should be made to the ministry for Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the budget. The request of the beneficiaries of the budget referred to in the previous position shall also be considered by the Ministry of Treasury. Under a cumbersome law on budget rebalancing, it is evident that there has been an enormous budget breach, even in the Parliamentary Assembly, overcoming budget items and spending funds and creating commitments beyond the established budget. Before my discussion, I need the Minister's response to the vault – 132 did the responsible and managers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions address it with a request to approve it?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1568	I thank you for this discussion and certainly the minister will answer a series of questions we had. We've had a debate on budget implementation, but there's no problem that some discussions and parts of the debate and reconstruction are in this agenda point unless we're in a hurry to allow Catholics to really celebrate that Christmas, not just to congratulate them. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1569	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, and I will begin by immediately joining the cards for the coming Catholic Christmas and then, of course, continue the discussion on the agenda point. This year's budget rebalance envisions a budget increase of approximately 54m KM from originally planned 92m to 147m KM. It mainly refers to the strengthening and growth of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and concerns the financing of new-fromary institutions or in the course of this year of the established institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the table that we have here only at the State Border Service, the rebalancing is projected to be around 23 million KM, so the foreign ministry is therefore a diplomatic consular network for about 6 million KM, for the state's obligations, so the distribution is about 6 million KM. I, as a man who cares about this state's institutions, can't function successfully against this rebalancing even though I have a lot of grudges in the way of spending funds this year, especially from individual users. So, this rebalance is funded by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that have grown this year into that...and have reached that capacity as foreseen by laws such as this. State Border Service. This rebalance provides for the financing of institutions formed during this year, and you know which institutions they are. As a citizen of this country, I'd be happy to say that the state court here is withdrawing even more resources, that the state's attorney's office is involved, which means, in that case, it's starting to work. Here we will have a concession commission, the other day we passed the law, the Institute of Intellectual Property and Copyright, and then the Demining Commission, the Institute of Demining. So you'd be happier if those institutions were here in this rebalancing system too if there were to be an increase in rebalancing and because of these institutions which would mean to me that these institutions are in office and that they are functioning, because they are in the interest of all the peoples and all the citizens of this country. Of course, here in the rebalancing I say there are certain items that concern overcoming the coverage of the budget. I will, as an MP, because I have insisted on this speaker especially on this issue, continue to insist on responsibilities for overruns, especially when the Parliamentary Assembly is about to set an example in spending money on other budgetary users, but since this is all in one package together and all together is called budget rebalancing and that it means firstly this normal functioning of the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina I will support this rebalancing as a delegate. Thank you. 133
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1570	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Here you go, Minister Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1571	I can give the esteemed representative Genjac the following answer. Since since the adoption of the 2001 budget itself has been an intensive activity on its rebalancing, there have been no specific requirements for budgetary users to change the structure, the change in structure has been an intense activity on its rebalancing. There have been no specific requirements for budgetary users to change the structure of individual expenditure items. I would like to point out further that we have taken maximum care of these requirements that have emerged as systematicised requirements for rebalancing the budget, because the rebalancing was an opportunity for all of you, all of these observed deviations, to systematically embrace and resolve. On the other hand, I'd like to remind you that we're a member of the 7th. The law on budget implementation foresees change, so we propose a formulation that this is no longer decided by the Ministry of Treasury, but by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Ministry of Tarezor. This is why we want to highlight even more responsibility for the transparent and rational management of budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1572	Have we exhausted the debate? Here you are, dear emissary Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1573	Dear colleagues, esteemed guests, I would first of all like to thank the media representatives, who here are very consciously, persistently and thoroughly following our meeting and, of course, knowingly delivering their reports. At the same time, I would also like to thank the editors of the media, who have some of our discussions here, which mention the violations of the law, do not allow it to be announced, likely by the fact that our public is not...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1574	Ambassador, a warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You will have to stick to the agenda and please stick to the agenda, and I will read it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution and International Obligations for 2001 and the Rebalancing of the Budget of the BiH Institution and the International Obligations for 2001 – First Reading – Proposer of the Presidency, Discussing the Principles. 134
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1575	I thank the chairman who would very much like to prohibit me from speaking, but I have a business opportunity to talk about the draft amendments to the budget on principles and with this proposal on amendments...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1577	And the additions to the Budget Law are also related to the implementation of the Budget and the Law on Sucession, not by my will but by the will of the current Council of Ministers and Government, which is a participant and chair of this high house. So, I find myself in a very difficult position, I must admit it. I'm in a difficult position because we've been brought into an unprecedented time tea. In this way, we are in a position to consider the issue of essential importance for the functioning of BiH institutions at the edge of business correctness. Do you know why we were brought into that teapot? We were not brought into that chat because of the House of Representatives, which adopted this on 30.11., we were not brought here because of the Council of Ministers, who very conscientiously proposed the Rebalancing Proposal. We were brought here because the chairman of the House of Peoples traveled for 12 months from Paris, Bucharest, etc. According to a report in which all MPs were brought, the chairman of the House of Peoples was in Paris from 1st to 7th, from 6th to 9th in Bucharest, then from 16th to 17th in Zagreb, etc. That's why we gentlemen are discussing such an important thing in this atmosphere, and that's why we don't even have a chance to congratulate our religious holiday because we're going to lose time and we won't make it to Christmas, but we have a whole month to travel around the white world, which is why gentlemen are in a very difficult position, because I've got three versions of the rebalancing, because I haven't received a timely report from the Administrative Commission, because I'm subject to here and before I've been interpreted, which I just can't in such a short time compare the Budget Act, or the Execution Report and the Budget Implementation Report was adopted, not because most of us here were present for, but because it wasn't enough against the gentlemen about that budget and that spending of funds. Participants in the government, members of the College said all the worst. They were also talking about over-authorization. It's not gonna be remembered, not seen, it's one thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1578	I'm really gonna have to take your word for it if you don't stick to the Rules of Procedure and talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1579	The Succeeding Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1580	It's not the subject of a conflict law. Indeed, I am asked by the Croatian Envoys' Club to complete the agenda as soon as possible, and we can finish it if we stick to the agenda. 135
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1581	The Succession Act is based on the Budget Rebalancing Act, because the most significant item of the increase in revenue is related to the succession, and we are discussing the Budget Rebalancing Act in principle. Please, gentlemen, don't. You can deny my delegate rights. It's not the first time. But I'm referring to the Rules of Procedure and the essence of things. So, the conflict law, which is the basis of the Budget Rebalancing Act, the conflict law which is the basis for resolving the issue of financing and functioning of BiH institutions, is disputed because the participants in the government did not vote for this law and I am now in a situation, after I talk about the rebalancing of the Budget, and that is why I asked the gentlemen in this budget rebalancing. It is clear to me that the amendment of the budget law has also been proposed, but that amendment has not yet been made, and so I asked whether the budget user, whether the responsible representatives of the budget user, were looking for changes in the item, because I simply cannot see how next year will come out of this problem. Whether central institutions will find themselves in an even more difficult position. To me is the closest parliamentary correspondence and me on the Parliamentary Assembly speaking as an institution that should be an example to other institutions can show some examples, because the Parliamentary Assembly is the one that adopts the Budget and the one that adopts the rebalancing of the Budždet and it should be an example to the other institutions. The Parliamentary Assembly is the one that established the Ministry of Treasury, the Law on Auditor, and, with great announcements and air announcements and approvals, etc. These are the results of the Parliamentary Assembly. This parliamentary assembly cannot work against the auditor and against the ministry of the vault. I can't find an answer to the question, if in the budget for travel expenses, I can't find an answer to the cost of staff and by rebalancing predicts 43,000 marks in the following year, so close to half a million, and already Mr. Tokić's travels from Havena, Kuwait, Zagreb, Paris, Bucharest, spent more than 460,000 for travel alone, have already been spent in the budget of Budžeta less than that. How's that gonna work out? How it will be covered and how it is predicted to come out. I'm talking about large numbers of millions of state border service, I'm not going to talk about how to find those funds, if we're doing the right thing as the Parliamentary Assembly. If the responsible representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly respect the law, the funds will be found, because these funds must be found, because the issue of funding of the BiH institution must be resolved because the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and those newly established and the new ones that have been recently established must be resolved and they will be resolved. We need to discuss the adoption of a law on the original revenues of BiH, that is the way to get rid of it. We must today as representatives, wherever we come from, given the importance of this rebalancing, given the importance of the functioning of BiH's central institutions, it is our responsibility to adopt this rebalancing and I will say very clearly, I will vote for the rebalancing of the Budget that allows the BiH institutions to finance, because it is a fundamental birding. But I will also advocate, to determine the responsibility of all those in BiH institutions who have led to this situation, to discuss in these circumstances such an important law and which have led to budget items being violated in the execution of the Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1582	The speaker, Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, appears for the word. 136
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1583	The esteemed envoys I was in the dilemma whether to take away the word to Mr Genjac and in a certain way deny the public of what is now in response to a whole series of unfounded claims, which the Genjac has repeatedly repeated, following the logic I guess when he repeats hundreds of times in an old tried philosophy and dotrin propaganda accepts as truth, which is obviously also the quality of the party he belongs to, all of which draws attention from strategic issues, yet I have decided precisely because of the public which the gentleman of genius so throatly called upon not to do so and to use my right in his address. First of all, as regards the appointment of the House of People's session and the conduct of the House of Peoples session and the conduct of the House of Peoples, I think there should be at least that elemental level of fact. I delivered to all the envoys, including Mr Genjac, which of course was never before practice, in advance in 3-4 months when there would be sessions of the House. The very procedure for considering this question is something that the College has brought, and since a shortened procedure has been sought, it has brought this home, so that the House, at its previous session, voted that this item of the agenda is being considered on the 21st floor today, is being considered, including the hand of Mr Genjac. But apparently, who from that good old joke, when Mujo learned only butterfly, according to the pretense, of course Hase, then when he came to the biology exam, gave him an elephant question. He began to say that the elephant was a great animal and that nothing more than he knew, he said, it was an animal on which the butterfly landed and everything he knew about the butterfly he had told, and Mr. Genjac and this whole structure of the SDA knew nothing more than that with a throatful explanation of setting up the most serious expressions of the face to follow such untruths as if all of this country was in crisis because of the journey of Mr. Tokić and the listing where he was all traveling, which, of course, is very well known and what is very transparent and in the costs and most important to the Bosnian Herzegovic public and in the results. Bosnia and Herzegovina, a candidate for entry into the Council of Europe, is a full membership, among other things, by achieving obligations through action in the Council of Europe, among other things my smallness as chairman of the delegation. I would like Genjac to see on the issues, let's say, that here, publicly for this speaker, he asks SDA Šaćirbegović to remember, too, him and Babo, where the BiH state is, so if he doesn't want to return the stolen money, at least he says and answers, and thus recognises this state of BiH or his vice president, Bičakčić, who, he is, is calling for a lagging immunity, in order to avoid the established charges by the Audit Office, by whoever is authorised to control. As far as control is concerned, I would call on the Office of Audit and the people should not even be called upon to carry out all the illegalities, and to find out that, of course, those responsible are punished. I'm the only man here who's only raised his hand to punish one who's in the structures now because he's violated his legality. I will also be a wave for anyone who is from any of the structures of the BiH state, including the Parliamentary Assembly, which is working for the public, it is said, the only institution of the BiH state that has not broken the total expenditures that are scheduled for its work. At the same time, when we talk about the state of BiH, we should read the basic way of talking to the chairman of the House, 137 parliamentarians, those who respect their country and who respect the institutions of the state, not because I have been sitting here for eight months, but because this should show respect. I am an opposition, but I have never used offensive terms, as it is used in these times, so I hear that one of the top SDA officials has even begun to call the birds the first of these leaders of the BiH state. According to that logic, if we were to go far, so far away, I don't know what I could say, where would it lead, if I didn't know now, and I don't even know what it looks like to me, so I could say it right now or so. If I look like a hawk to someone and I make it public, then I could do it for Genjac, God Bog we go into that kind of dialogue and talk like a potential rodent, the one who called me a hawk, like I don't know a goose, etc. Such a termology will not take us anywhere, and, therefore, I really ask you, with all the possibility of showing your opposition action to the public for this speaker, stick to the topic you have. So much for this replica, which was off topic not my fault. The replica was reported by Munib Jusufović and then by Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1584	Mr. Chairman, I have come forward and I hope, and I have answered for one basic reason that in the position of the club president I am, I would like to ask the members, non-delegates of the Bosniak Club Club, above all Mr Genjac, that you do not really use Parliament's position or place to discuss it this way, and then I would ask the chairman and, also, as a member of this club not to return in this way, because there is really no political aesthetics in a certain way. I think that all of this, I really ask you as people, as members of this club that we have the possibility and way, if there are party antagonisms and they are logical to me in the House of Representatives, but here in the House of Peoples, they are not, that we are able to discuss these issues within the Club. I wouldn't have acquitted here right now if we didn't figure it out either one and the other if I were to blame whoever caused it, etc. But there may be no aesthetics, but now as much as I'll be understood or not, Mr. Genjac that at least 6-7 times you mention the same question, whether or not they're diaries, after all, they're all expenses, which absolutely have a list for all of us, etc. But maybe so are you, I'm speaking now in the position of a member of the club, Mr. Tokić, simply not to come back and turn this into a debate. Here, that's actually the essence of mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1585	I thank Ambassador Jusufović for his well-intentioned attempts to bring this debate back. I would just point out that this is my first replication of questions that are constantly not critical and incorrectly summed up by Mr. Genjac, but by opening this debate, not by his own fault, Mr. Genjac answered the line. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1586	So, since I was directly mentioned by name and last name, I am using the opportunity, twice mentioned, as you have seen, Mr. Tokić's discussion referred exclusively to the rebalancing of Budžet, so he talked about the hawks Seadi Paravlić, 138 Edhem Bičakčić, Muhamed Šaćirbegović, etc. I addressed Mr. Tokić as a Halid Genjac delegate to the House of Nations and cited the facts of the execution of the Budget from the report on travels from the Budžet Rebalance and the Budget Act. All the facts one by one, please, one by one from the issue of general debate in the principle of the Budget Rebalancing Act. At every discussion of mine, as the series of Mr. Tokić has become, it corresponds to jokes in which the heroes of Mujo, Suljo, etc. are mostly. The public will likely draw the necessary conclusions. The second thing is, it's been a year, almost a year, Mr. Džaferović and I are asking a parliamentary question. Who was traveling where? Who gave the order? How much has been spent? After five months, two days ago, we got who was traveling where, but we haven't got an answer yet who decided where they were going to travel. And that's why I'm asking that question, and that's why it's the Budgetary question, which is why it's a matter of budget bonds and so on. If Mr. Tokić is an example of how to do those from the former government and how much he wants to copy them in every effort, that's not good, because there were good things there were also bad things, but I would ask Mr. Tokić to give me as a delegate in this home, he, as chairman, answers to my name and last name, the facts that I treat and arguments relating to these facts. The insults that Mr Tokić has expressed that have not been remembered in this House's dictionary since there's even been a dictionary of the Parliamentary Assembly since it exists I can't really go down and talk to that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1587	Before that, Mr Spahić answered. Is it a replica? Come back, I've got a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1588	The word is from Mr. Chairman Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1589	Mr. Genjac, esteemed colleagues, you are witnessing that I am in principle not a man who's replicated dozens of Mr. Genjac's step. I'll now, after this one of mine, if I have to put an end to the agenda, make the journey completely clear. It's not clear to me at all, about travel why someone's trying to disembowel the public when it's very clearly indicated in everything, to be quite clear. They have also resulted in a good result in contrast, let's say, I am now specifically talking about the travels and costs for this budget, although it is not a part of the agenda, I am not telling you as the chairman of Mr Genjac, who, as that interim member of the Presidency, arrived on trips to Malaysia and other countries to spend more than the parliamentary travels of many other parliamentary delegations that are obliged to participate in certain parliamentary meetings. Because of the public and because of Genjac, it's quite clear, every journey should be and should be assessed for the effects, with which the warrant went. My travels are mandatory travels that the chairman of delegations or the chairman of the House should carry out in order for this assembly to function. No attempt to correct myself with a quick effect, by replacing the thesis in front of the public now, I don't know what, I won't let it come here and every such Genjčeva or Džaferović's unprincipled 139 discussion I will answer with replicas, because it has proved to be a wise silence and an attempt to achieve reasonable behaviour in this parliament did not simply help. I would ask you to be clear, I didn't call you, but I said what would happen if that terminology, which you used and which you used in this home, and I accepted to use. What would that be made of? What would all this look like? I think from my discussion, from what you said, you could figure out what it would look like and, so believe me, I'm asking all of us to behave equally. No one can, because they are sitting in the chair here, which leads the session, which should be held by Poslvonik to suffer such a kind of terror, and please let the media and everyone see what time it is, how many press conferences, how many hours are spent at the question of Sejfudin Tokić and this on the release of untrue data. It's frustration. I'm not going to put up with your frustrations on my skin, Mr. Genjac, with all due respect. Thank you. I'd like to pray to dom, if Dom agrees that in conclusion we define that the replicas in the further debate should be suspended. All right, here's the Genjac and one more answer if you have to. You want to say something to Mr. Džaferović, answer the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1590	So, the chairman, state one word that I used for this speaker, which is your dictionary. Just find one. That's one thing. The other thing is, you're telling the truth about trips that cost more, so you're telling the truth, and I dare you to prove it to me as a member of the temporary presidency. Although it's not a subject, but you're telling the truth. The second thing, your travels, Mr. Tokić, have not brought any benefit, and it is incorrect that they have benefited. Your journeys have brought enormous damage to BiH. You said yourself, after returning from Havana that the delegation had done nothing, it was not unique and that nothing had been done. The fact that nothing was done, as Tokić said, and that Tokić traveled to do nothing cost 32,000 marks. You have a numbering report. The damages you have caused by telling the truth about the statements of certain high officials in the Council of Europe are public knowledge. The damages you have caused in your presentation at the Council of Europe's Political Home, the public is also familiar. Among other things, you told the truth that the general of the army, the former commander, was delivered. You should have said that the man surrendered, at least out of correctness to that man, because it was crucial for him to defend himself from freedom. So your journeys did not benefit, but damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1591	Replica Tokić. I ask that the replicas be brought to an end, we must return to the topic to finish the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1592	Since this has already been repeated only that the cameras haven't recorded, if Mr. Genjac who said everything about this pay phone, including 140 discussions allegedly about rebalancing or replicas, has only one accuracy, and that's his beginning, when he told me that he was having a hard time. I, indeed, think Mr. Genjac is difficult and very, very difficult. In that context, I'd like to repeat the following. There at that point in the agenda in the Council of Europe, Mr. Genjac, where you were staying in the study room, your study group manager said that it was a delegation's statement, rated by the highest grades, where you could learn how to step up on behalf of the BiH state. The Council of Europe on the stand you are now talking has issued a special statement, noting that this is the first time that the BiH delegation is performing unitedly, in line with BiH's interests to become a member of the Council of Europe. Especially noting Mr. Genjac's presentation of members of the delegation who attended the session. As for Mr. Sefer Halilović, I must be very clear. My formulation was that a man had surrendered and that, if you knew, you had the right to know that the authorities were delivering the extradition. By the way, I really don't know why your old lady's been systematically scrambling for years, that she's now trying to catch small day-to-day political points on this issue. Of all these petty-day political points, Mr Genjac, you cannot wash yourself from what stands as a weakness of your work, not only in the previous period, but also in this period when you have not systematically followed what you are saying and that you want to strengthen BiH. That's what the most common anti-legislative voting is about in this high house. Thank you very much. Did you ask for a break? Time out for 15 minutes. Deputy Chairman, is there any willingness to proceed? [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, the envoys, the honored guests, continue to work. The delegations' club from the Croatian people informed me that, for perfectly understandable reasons, they can work until 15 o'clock. In accordance with what they said, I want to convey that I will comply with Article 22. The Rules of Procedure on the work of this House position f) which states that the Chairman of the House restricts the duration of the intervention in relation to one or more issues, if necessary, to ensure that the agenda is considered as a whole, the proceedings and to restrict and take away the word, respecting that all those who speak of the agenda point demonstrate what is related to the issue of the agenda. We're continuing the debate. The review of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets and Rebalancing of Budgets is under way, first reading, therefore, we are talking about the fines. Mr. Genjac reporting for word. Here you go, Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1593	Dear colleagues, I take my word just to say my business right to take advantage of the replica, I'm not going to use it, I'm giving it up. The questions that exist unsettled, we will solve the next days and inform the public. Thank you. 141
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1594	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who's still answering for the word? This was about no more replicas, which is definitely good. Can we conclude a discussion of principles and approach the plea in the first question? Who is it to hold a debate on members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Executive of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2001, or the adoption of this law in the first reading? Unanimity. No one's against it. Unanimously, I find this visionary home adopted by the law in its first reading. Who is to adopt the rebalancing of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2001, the first reading in the first reading. I mean, who's to have a debate about members of this rebalancing business. I find that all 10 present envoys – the delegates voted on the rebalancing in the first reading, thus obtaining the conditions for further discussion in the second reading to discuss these two amendments and amendments to the Budget and Rebalancing Act of the BiH Institution. There have been conditions to open a hearing under Article 91. Rules of Procedure. Amendments in accordance with Article 89. He submitted delegate Nikola Špirić to the budget of the BiH institution and international obligations of BiH for 2001. I would first ask Mr Špirić's honourable envoy to declare whether he remains with the amendments? He's staying. Does Mr Špirić want to explain this high house of his amendment, after they have not been accepted by the commission responsible for these amendments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1595	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, this amendment, this is a general amendment relating to the rebalancing of the Budgetary Institution of BiH in which I said that the rebalancing is necessary on the items relating to the new institutions and in this sense my proposal was that it was only a rebalancing of newly established institutions and in this sense it would be a rebalancing of paragraphs 4.19. – 23, 25, in the table relating to the redistribution of revenue by the budget users covered by Table 3 in the contribution you received. For items under regular number 26 and 30 of the same table, a rebalancing was proposed. So, this applies to old obligations and newly created obligations of BiH, which means that I wasn't apores against the distribution of concession funds, because these are, precisely, items relating to the funds of the succession and in that sense, there would be no blockade that threatens to take place. However, those who have created the law do not seem to have read the amendments, but it simply has to be taken or left in principle and in that sense it would not be the rebalancing of the Budget 59.44% but the rebalancing of 102.60 or 106.45%. I think the budget rebalancing of 106.45% or close to 7% is suitable for BiH's real economic strength. It doesn't open up the possibility of any breakthroughs and creates one, I'd say a solid basis for designing the budget for 2002. All other, enlargement, i.e. this size of rebalancing this year, noting that the 2002 election year is therefore the necessary means for the elections to be provided to the future budget, noting that a small 10% committee will be sought, this is a sign that the resources for 142 next year will need a level of 170 or 180 million security. It is a sign that the rate of growth of social product in entities and at BiH level will be so low that it will not be able to provide the entity's distributions according to the central budget and this will lead us back to the situation7 to run these or similar stories. So, I'm just staying on the stand to defend this amendment. That I'm for budget rebalancing on newly established institutions and that I'm against rebalancing in other items. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1596	Okay. Are there any questions related to the motion of this amendment by the envoys? This is what I think the possibility of asking questions is complete and exhausted. Who's reporting for the debate on Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendments? A distinguished representative – an envoy – delegate Spahić – came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1597	I'm glad you're using all three languages. It is, as one good card to all citizens for the new year, that they can celebrate in their freedom holidays both Christian and Christian and all others. Let me tell you something. I listened carefully to Mr Špirić in a previous statement on principles and now this amendment, which he explained, and I tried to take a break to check with Minister Domazet and Mr Križanović two facts. If it's true and it's true that we've received assurances about the principles of Mr. Domazet's rebalancing of the Budget, that, regardless of the part relating to the so-called. alternative solutions which include the grant funds to ensure that this rebalancing is respected and, if it is true, as confirmed by me orally, if it is necessary to confirm this and publicly that we will get the 2002 budget by 10 January 2002, it seems to me that it would be good, in this context, that Mr Špirić would give up this, as I would say, acceptance and rejection of the budget at the same time, because it is a blockade on the inside, which would make it impossible for him to vote for or against. One hour he entered the very contradiction of this part. I propose to the gentleman, I urge Mr Špirić to step out of this situation in the best possible way, which is that, given that the law is being discussed, we create the conditions to respect the guarantees given by the Presidency and the vijeć of Ministers and the Treasury.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1598	Thank you. I'd like to beg, if you please, Mr. Špirić, please. But I'd really like to ask you...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1599	You see, since this is about budget rebalancing, it can't be about promises in the hallway or members of the Presidency or the Minister of the Treasury. The budget rebalancing is a written document, in which one cannot promise to generate income, but is done on the basis of 143 revenue generated. I'd love to, if what was promised in the hallway would just be written in paper in the same second here's a statement. But we usually have a gap between what we say and what we're willing to sign. Thank you very much. I'm staying on my amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-20-0.u1600	Thank you. I would ask you, indeed, we have procedurally asked whether Mr. Špirić wants to give up the amendment. Everyone is responsible for their actions and not for their actions, and don't discuss them. I'd like you to give up something. It's repeated over and over again. The envoys here are autonomous and give up and do not give up. I am concluding the debate on the amendments of my distinguished colleague Špirić. They have obtained the conditions to join the declaration of this high house on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the Budget of Institutions and International Obligations for 2001. Who's in favor of this law? Excuse me. We closed the debate, and since it's on the agenda, it's only important as an explanation, a statement on the law and on the amendment and on the budget law. This is quite a business procedure in order. So I'm going to call you back, so the previous point is, there was no amendment, we understand each other. So, I repeat. Who is for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2001? Please correct chart to lift, if you're in favour, that means green. - 12 for it. Who is against the law on amendments to the Budget Act? - Nobody. Who's restrained? – 2 I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets is in the text as proposed by the Council of Ministers adopted in this higher house. Let's join the statements concerning the realisation of the Budget of the BiH institution and the international obligations of BiH for 2001. Previously on "Mr. Špirić's Amendments"... The amendment and Mr. Špirić. You've all got assumptions ahead of you. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? - 3 Who is against the above-mentioned amendment? 8 Who Is Restraint? I'm guessing the amendment didn't go through, didn't get the necessary majority. 144 Amendment II Mr. Špirić who's in? - 3 Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? - 3 I also find that this amendment has not received the necessary majority in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The conditions have been met for us to declare on the text of the budget of the institutions and international obligations of BiH for 2001 Who is for the rebalancing of the Budget? - 12 Who's against it? - 1 Who Is Restraint? – I konstatovati the budget rebalancing with 1 vote abstention and 1 against adoption and the entity majority has. There are no objections to the vote. We've exhausted the agenda with this. I would only inform this high house, given that there were no opposing views that I, as the chairman of the House of Nations, would show our general commitment to control the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the Budgets and to establish the potential responsibilities of the employers, therefore, on behalf of this House, since no one has disputed that conclusion. It's a waste of the agenda. I'd remind you, we just need a 2-3 minute break. I am concluding this session to begin with a next session that is extremely important, given the financial resources that mean it. Don't get out of the O.R. because we need to finish this fast. The session is closed at 1405 hours.
