ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u881	I welcome all present again and open the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd take a break from 5-6... There are 14 delegates present, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serb people. Since we have a quorum and we can make a full decision, I think we can join the implementation of the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys and delegates, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly has been addressed by Mr Frank Orton, the Ombudsman for human rights, asking to address this high house. The College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly accepted this initiative, and accordingly I call upon the esteemed Mr. Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Franko Orton, to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u882	Mr. President, the delegates of this house, dear guests, I want to tell you that it is an extraordinary honor for me. I am authorized to address you on the subject of the concept of rule of law. This is about what the construction of a country and also the economic prosperity of the country go along with the rule of law and the protection of human rights. Many people in this country talk a lot about the rule of law and the protection of human rights. I think most people know what is meant by the protection of human rights, but I think there are few who actually know what is meant by the concept of the rule of law. Even a small number of those who wanted the rule of law implemented. I'm sure the respected members of this house are aware of what is being supported under the concept of the rule of law and what I would like to share with you at this time, I think you already know. But what I'd like from you is for you to pass on your opinions, but my opinion to the other members. So people, ordinary people, too, could understand what is meant by the concept of rule of law, because ordinary civil servants, and judges, might not be very familiar with what is being supported under that concept, where there are other cultures and other ways of thinking. So, in my country that is even bigger, before I say in my home country, which is Sweden, because today is the country where I live, because I live here now and I'm at the 2nd head of an BiH institution and I'm still here for a few years, and that's why I'm talking about BiH as my country as our country, even though I own a Swedish passport and if I'm a little weak with the language you're talking about here. In my country, therefore, there is a saying in Sweden, which is over a hundred years old and it is as one basis of the concept of rule of law and it is translated into English and in our language it reads. “The land will be built on the law”. You can certainly say that what is happening in Sweden, so in my country, the country of origin is not relevant to what is happening in this country. However, I would like to tell you that this rule existed in this country before Sweden was even established. When this country was part of the Roman - Roman Empire. The earth will be built by law. I understand that it is not easy to implement in BiH as it is today. You have a very complex constitutional and legal structure. There are areas where there are too many laws and areas where laws are mutually... and it is not easy to follow legal procedures in this country, even politicians who are really trying to make and make progress in this country, but the rule of law is something that needs to be overcome. The rule of law means the law will rule. That a reasonable interpretation of the law will rule the society and the activities of every... minister of the court or an ordinary worker of the administration. They must do their best to follow the law wisely. If the law is bad, then the same law has to change, because it doesn't need to be followed. They shouldn't follow the advice of political leaders. Some law of friendship. It's not the law of money or... under the table. But they should allow the rule of law to prevail. Officials aren't here to boss, they're here to serve the citizens in accordance with the law. Therefore, they should not work according to the advice of political party leaders neither according to the laws of friendship nor the laws of hunting across and below the table. That's why they call themselves officers. They should serve the citizens of this country rightly, justly and impartially. What those words mean, what these three words actually mean is the document that is here on the table and you can take after my interpretation, along with the other two documents that are available here. All these documents are available in English, as well as in three domestic versions. Servants should serve the people rightly, justly, and impartially. It's of particular importance when it comes to the judiciary. A court that is impartial, the state will have great problems growing up into a large democratic country. That is why it is of paramount importance that you, as politicians, pass on to your colleagues to choose judges who are effective in the possession of knowledge and who are above all impartial. Judges should not be elected without commitment to a political party during their election. The rule of law is the cornerstone of the state. The word modern democracy, therefore, is not the society in which the law of friendship and the law of money prevails. Without rule, everyone... on human rights and freedoms has escaped and is not in line with the everyday lives of citizens. Without it, human rights and freedoms cannot be properly applied and the injuries can be properly sanctioned, corrected. The rule of law implies order and stability in society. This means a balanced possibility of predicting the decisions of the authorities. This includes decisions to be implemented and those to be implemented. This implies the security of discretion, which is not foreseen by law. This opens the other side by investing because investors themselves will continue to hesitate to invest their money in a country they are not sure will properly sanction a breach of the contract. If approval to start a business has been suspended or because of bureaucracy has been suspended, then foreign investors will invest their money somewhere else. You as politicians also play a very significant 3 role to attract foreign investors to come here and invest their money in your country. The rule of law is very important to ordinary citizens. More wealthy people in high places and those who have authority and you as members of a political facility, you can succeed without the rule of law. People in high places will always be able to achieve ambitions and promote their own interests. The rule of law is there to especially protect ordinary people. The widest layers of the population, so, people on the street, women in the field, and to ensure them a normal and decent life, but that's all very uniform. The land will be built on the law. They should all be equal in front of the law. Niko one should be above the law. We should all be bound by the law. The rule of law is a symbol of modern European democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u883	Deep respect and gratitude to Mr. Franko Orgon, the Ombudsman for BiH's human rights in his address. We're going back to work. For the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have received a proposal on agenda items and I assume that you all have that proposal in front of you and that there is no need for me to read all these points of the agenda. Before declaring the agenda, I will tell you some replacements, related to the order of certain items of the agenda, agreed by the College, but it does not disrupt the content of the session itself. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u884	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I make a proposal on a specific agenda, I would like to conclude, with regrets that today again, here now none of the Council of Ministers is present at this session, probably due to certain obligations and member of the Bureau the only one who has been present has left us. I think it is one situation that needs to be decided at this session and should be asked by the competent institutions and authorities to be present in the future. It's already a practice that repeats itself. That's one thing. Second, the College could, in accordance with Article 42 on the call of the House meetings, in the future agenda of the delivery session seven, or possibly three days earlier, as indicated earlier in that article. When it comes to the proposed agenda, on behalf of the Hrvat Envoys' Club in the House of Peoples, we propose that instead of the proposed 18th agenda, instead of the extended formulation, the point will go to a point, whose formulation will read the proposal of the Council of Ministers to launch the procedures for the responsibility of officials and responsible employees on reports of the BiH institutions' audit offices. Explanation. We had a report from the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for the three ministries at the last,... completed session of the House of Peoples. It is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In all three reports or in a summary report for each individual ministry, there are a number of objections, suggestions and a number of irregularities found. These irregularities are 4 very similar, from the intransparent use of funds to the construction of an internal system, I would say, self-control and control within the ministry. As the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, so we agreed at the last session to continue with the work, the revision of the other ministries, I think it is quite logical to go with this point of the agenda, which will also apply to the employees and officials of these three ministries and other ministries whose revision is currently under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u885	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Munib Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u886	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the business procedure, I propose that another item be entered in the agenda that I will explain, which is the request of delegates, Bosniak delegates, Party of Democratic Action to convene an extraordinary session of the Club before, namely, an initiative to vote non-confidentially on sejfudini Tokić's Bosniak member of the College of the People's House or the current chairman. Namely, what it's about. The initiative followed by delegates of the Party of Democratic Action. We had a Bosniak delegates' club today. There were four delegates attending the meeting, very short to be. There was a certain statement, because the two were in favour, Mr. Tokić felt that this was not in line with the business procedure, and I did not plead for one basic reason why I believe this issue was to be discussed within the Alliance, rather I had no party position, therefore I did not even plead. In short, the proposal is to vote on inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u887	Thank you. Any new initiatives to supplement, change of agenda? Mr. Genjac, I would like to remind you all that, as determined by this procedure, it is a three-minute period in which delegates can speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u888	Dear colleagues, I act as a delegate with a name and name, not on behalf of the Club, not on behalf of a party group or party, 10th of October. In Banja Luka, Mr. Tokić, as the media conveyed a statement by a respected gentleman or some representatives of the international community warning representatives of the Bosnian-Herzegovic authorities, there are some photographs. First, what needs to be concerned is that Mr Tokić, as a representative of this House, has been elected from this delegation to our parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe in the media, conveying views to the representatives of the authorities and not to this Parliament and to this House of Peoples and others, of course, the more painful and significant thing is that 5 is, under the alleged statement Mr. Šiber, Mr. Piter Šider, the leader of the most influential group of Socialists in the Council of Europe, denied. Therefore, it is a false statement by Sejfudin Tokić. Since this false statement, at a very delicate moment, has caused great damage to BiH, to contribute to the impatience and spread of intolerance among BiH citizens and peoples to continue to deepen and lead to the spread of hatred among the peoples of BiH, that at a very delicate moment it has damaged BiH and its citizens at a moment known to us all for its importance and since damage has been done to Mr. Šider, I think the first point of today's session should be to determine the responsibility of Sejfudin Tokić for false allegations in Mr. Šider's statement. In this way, we will show that first of all Parliament is worthy of our knowledge, thus correcting and reducing the damage done by Tokić and BiH and its citizens and thus alleviate the discomfort that Mr Šider feels these days. Thank you. I suggest that it be the first item of the agenda, for the reason that, after the debate, if it is found to be a really false statement, I think a man who makes false statements like that can't chair the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u889	I'd only ask you to formulate for a statement of the exact agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u890	To establish the responsibility of Sejfudin Tokić for false allegations about Mr. Piter Šider's statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u891	Okay. Any other suggestions to supplement the agenda. A colleague, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u892	Dear members of the College, esteemed guests, fellow delegates, I would only like to comment on the proposal of the Club of Delegations of the Croatian People, on the 18th agenda point and remind myself that we adopted this conclusion, adopting reports on the work, so the Audit Reports, we adopted if you remember there a proposal from the Commission which will establish the possible existence of responsibility by the competent institutions and initiate the appropriate procedure. So, there is really no need once again to adopt that same conclusion, because we did, of course, first of all, every institution and individual to raise and put the question of someone's responsibility on the agenda. Even, I don't think there's any need, I repeat, we'll be held back here on the plea, because there's no need, because if we adopt one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u893	A kolega Špirić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u894	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a concrete proposal and one comment, of course, an advance apology, what I'm about to say about the agenda, I didn't say about the College, it's quite an accident and I don't think my colleagues will mind. Since the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is responsible for the commission, has completed its work, and I suppose there was little time for the assembly services, the decisions of the committees in charge, to be implemented, to be incorporated into the text of the law where they need to, I don't think, by chance, that it deliberately stole the mistake, when it comes to the Law on Defence. The draft law on BiH's defence, I, as I recall, and the minutes exist that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has adopted an amendment related to the election of defence attorneys. I think the logic is that the adopted amendment becomes a legal part of the text so that we can discuss it, so that we can avoid notifying at the session so that we can discuss it normally. We can, of course, conclude that it would be logical for the commission to discuss two weeks before the House session so that they could finish all of that procedure in order to enter into that section of congregation work, which would be at the level of both this home and what delegates are doing in committees. That's why I'm proposing, since it's about first reading of the law, so it's not the second reading that until it's done, so until the next session puts it into the text of the law, this legal project is withdrawn from today's debate. Another thing I would like to draw attention to, it relates to the adoption of the agenda point, related to statements in this case by Mr. Chairman, and then it was a vague formulation of Mr. President of the Club of Mr. Jusufović that the club had sat down that he was seeking to include the agenda point. There was simply no explanation for what reasons. I wish there were a number of reasons why we'd be looking for this item on the agenda so we could discuss them. So here, I guess we're home that we can talk about everything openly. Mr. Genjac's request, concerning statements, I would like today, if this House session were to go to our preparedness to work on these legislative projects, which are, I hope, the agenda points of which depend on the fate of BiH. Znte, the political space of BiH echoes various statements, and I would not be surprised if someone were to propose a law tomorrow prohibiting such or such statements. I don't think this home should be burdened with such points of the agenda, but it's my vision, and it's up to you delegates to depend on whether the agenda point will be or not. I will by my way of voting identify myself on every item of the agenda. When it comes to the agenda of the 18th Proposed Deputy of Mr. Divković, here I think it's the agenda point, I'm not going to get into motives right now. What I wouldn't want to achieve with this point is that it looks like the trial of the current set of ex-guarantees, not to be reports of the Central Committee, in which it generally condemns itself and then says we mention one, prepare everyone who's been in touch with anyone. The thing is the House is to start initiatives, to have arguments, to insist on political responsibility. No one prohibits the Council of Ministers from raising the issue of responsibility, etc. And since for the first time this year we have an audit committee report that points to illogicality, it points to a way of solving the problem, etc. I commended it at last session of the House and I want to make it clear that since I was also an MP in the previous session 7 that the concept of work had changed, so the last Council of Ministers called and even worked both homes and the concept of work in this assembly. I'm not due to a change of concept that someone bears political responsibility. I wouldn't want this to look like that part of the conclusion. Simply, we make the general decision and we move on and I'll have my proposal as part of the agenda. Of course, here is the specific name of Deputy Foreign Minister Mr. Jadranko Prlić. What needs to be said is that it does not look like something that can be personal and what is not my taste, I have to be honest, it is, and I will say it in the debate, if it is a point of the agenda, that such initiatives must not be, or may not be, like the trial of something that has happened and which, too, has given rise to the development of BiH, so that it can be found in today's phase in which we are and free of stories about everything. So, I wish he was an ambience three years ago to discuss things like this in BiH. And here I am, of course. I don't think it's a good idea to have a agenda point in general, as at the time of the former CK, you know how different activity occurs, and then the name is mentioned, and then everyone who was in this session should prepare. That would be ugly...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u895	I didn't give you my word. Go back to your seat.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u896	Can I have a word for the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u897	I ask all envoys to the House that there is a three-minute debate on the establishment of the agenda. For his word, according to the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed colleague, Mr. Genjac, appeared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u898	Thank you. I could have heard this... a statement and on my feet, but, therefore, Mr. Špirić, I ask you not to characterise my proposal for the agenda, because as a delegate, I have the right to suggest. My relationship with the laws, I have shown it so far, and today I will show, by accepting the laws that you as a member of the College have refused to comply with. That's one thing. The second thing, as well as the adoption of the law, is the same importance to me as the dignity of the chairman of the House and of the College and of this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u899	I'm thanking you. I ask you to define, so far, all the initiatives that have been and to ask if there are any new initiatives. Of course, that according to our rules of procedure, the tradition we've been building, we're going to build work in this house all the suggestions we're going to come to a statement, and I've seen a few raised hands, so I'm only interested in character. First, Mr Jusufović came forward for clarification, but I ask you to be decident, and by the way, it would be good, if we knew, before we joined the plea, because they have two points of the agenda. Jendo is a vote, one not trusting the chairman, both of whom are representatives of the Party of Democratic Action. 8 Whether or not this can be combined into one item of the agenda, at the time of the statement, if we are going to include such a item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u900	Here, right now, Mr. Špirić, may well have justifiably asked to explain what the content of this initiative is. I, truth be told, was going to announce that later, if this initiative were to enter the agenda. But there's no real secret, and here's the short one, I'll read it. Here's the subject, a request for an emergency session of the club. I demand that within the shortest period of time you schedule an extraordinary session of the Club with only one item of the agenda, the vote of mistrust to sejfudini Tokić, a Bosniak member of the House of People's College. Sejfudin Tokić, voluntarily without the Bošnjak klub's stance, agreed to the College of the House on 25 November, Zavnobih dan as a state holiday, is renamed only in 25 November, the day of anti-fascism. In this way, Sejfudin Tokić, one of the most important dates in BiH, a date that testifies to BiH's continuity, took a specific meaning for BiH. We appreciate that this is an inadmissible will, which is why we suggest that you act according to our conclusion. Therefore, it is an initiative and content. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u901	Okay. Mr. Divković, clarification. Is it a new initiative, Mr. Divković?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u902	I've already explained what I suggested to change the 18th point of today's agenda. I just want to add one more time, so three ministries have been reviewed. I would like to add that in every ministry there are, as far as I know, ministers' deputy ministers, responsible employees who carry full responsibility for the state of the ministry and that we stick to certain, precisely, principled views, which is that people who are responsible, who are therefore paying, who are said to be responsible for parts of the business, because errors have been made, must bear responsibility. That, Mr. Špirić, is not any communist or I don't know what you call them, you can't at least attribute it to me and these Croatian Club people, because if we went back to the past who was what in communist times and where, the picture would look completely different.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u903	I'm thanking you. Mr. Živković has come forward, an incorrect allegation, I beg your pardon, dear colleague Živković. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u904	I like that about comparisons of past times, of course, everything I've done I've done with a lot of pleasure and I don't mind at all, and this is how they can now... the atmosphere in Parliament. But I mean, look at the situation we're in with the change point. Niko one argues that this home can, whenever it wants and in a way that defines the requirement to define it according to any phenomenon, where a political angle of observation is sought, but, of course, the promoter here came up with a clearly defined agenda point to be given a general framework. I'll say if that agenda point is included. I'll dati my own, of course by the way I vote, whether I'm a dot or not, and, of course, I'll be present at that point if the delegates accept it, but I'm not about to be given within this general framework. I do not dispute that Croatian delegates can define a conclusion that I will personally support. But we have to have a clean situation here sometime. Here you have the chairman and his request. If the point gets in, I'll tell you what the request looks like, specifically the chairman and for what I'm not or for what I am. So, I ask that all proposals are legitimate. I'll soy way of making a statement let you know what I think about the proposal, not to enter the polemics. We'll simply solve the problem by voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u905	I, indeed, think if there are no new initiatives that...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u906	I'm sorry, about Mr. Jusufović's proposal, because he explained to me what the reason to put the agenda is, I think business, I have no intention, really to defend the chairman or any of the delegates, but I intend to speak the language of the Rules of Procedure and the Law. It is a business obligation for the College to agree or disagree. You have today's report where we didn't agree on about two points. Does this mean that every time we agree, someone will be punished? Seeking, and the goal is a business effort to reach a compromise. I expected where we have reached a compromise that will be promoted as a virtue as a good thing for BiH. So that's what we were asked to do. I thought they'd criticise us where there are no compromises, not where there are compromises, and that's why I'm not going to put that point on the agenda, because it's not about breaking the Rules of Procedure, it's not about something that a man could discuss and say is too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u908	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, since Mr. Divković said in his second address part of what I was going to say, I didn't want to give up reporting. Personally, I highly appreciate Mr. Tokić's counseling work and he runs two to four initiatives every month as an MP and is very valuable at the 10 jobs. However, I dare say that part of the initiative, which he is instigating, given the difficult situation in this country, is burdened by much greater problems than some he has caused, can often be understood or pre-produced by the misdetermination of political energy and, in fact, by turning away from the major problems. And this, according to my court, is the separation of this point on 18th, which, apparently, the College agreed that from the Office of Audit report concerning three ministries and that the paper continues to be pulled out and that its shift is sought, I cannot support it, because this audit is understood as an investigation and persecution of people, not as an indication of failures and what should be done. After all, here are some reports from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the last call to these two homes accepted. Therefore, that too should be considered when it comes to that. I believe that, on the trail proposed by the Croatian Envoys Club, a solution should also be sought. DESCRIPTION is given to the Council of Ministers to continue its work and, possibly, to establish in the process certain further irregularities and, accordingly, if it is assessed that there is a need, to initiate a certain responsibility against people, and not to single out one name and a real case, and to make audits in poor condition and wrong business of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, where irregularities are also found, in one way or another, in an indirect manner. For me this should be looked at in the package and please include this point on the agenda as formulated by the Croatian Envoys Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u909	I'm thanking you. Džaferović, the distinguished gentleman, answered the word. After that, let Šimić be prepared. We still have reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u910	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to pick up where Mr Jusufović left off, the president of the Bosniak Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, he read you a request for an extraordinary session of the Club and a request for a vote of no confidence to Mr. sejfudini Tokić, a Bosnian member of the College of the House of People, which we signed and directed to Mr. Jusufović, Dr. A genius and me. Mr. Jusufović read the reasons. A session of the Bosniak Club was held today. Four delegates attended the session. Of those four delegates, two voted for this request, two, I don't know exactly now, so, explain, two were either abstentioned or one was abstentioned against. Mostly two votes are the majority vote from those present at the Bosniak Club session and since, according to the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the work of the working bodies, the abstentions or votes of those who have not spoken, the Bosniak Club has therefore voted not to trust Mr Sejfudin Tokić and what Mr Jusufović has proposed today, in fact this is a request by the Bosniak Club for the replacement of Mr Sejfudin Tokćić from the member's post, a Bosniak member of the College of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. That's it. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u911	Thank you. Mr. Šimić, and then answered the word of the esteemed colleague Spahić and who else answered the word that Ilić would.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u912	Dear friends, in fact, any initiative to change the agenda is, of course, legitimate and I would be able to say about each of those points if it were found in the agenda – two suggestions I would say, but I will use the opportunity, within business time and I will say it in advance. Of course, I support Mr. Divković's proposal, just as it was formulated, and Mr. Novaković reacted quite logically to the fact that we had the House's conclusion in this regard, I will not now repeat how Mr. Divković said it. However, since the Council of Ministers has not responded to the conclusion of the House of Peoples, then I think it is logical today to form a point as dictated by Mr Divković, because she is more comprehensive and logical than the audit of the three ministries. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say right now, I'm going to vote for such a proposal. As for the proposal to replace Mr. Tokić, the rounding of the initiative, as undemocratic as it may seem, I will make it clear in advance that I will be against such an initiative, not from any collegiate solidarity with the College member, but from the implementation of Mr. Jusufović's initiative, Article 60. The rules of procedure clearly state how such projects and conclusions that remain unsettled in the House and the College did so. The political context of the important issue and the law on BiH's national holidays. It is known to all of us, he is very difficult and not to ask for words complex etc. We had that in mind, but in the first order of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, this political context can come to the next session, within the framework of statements and additions to the existing law, and I would support any such initiative. So much for the club's initiative, which is why I can't personally support it. As for the other initiative, because of the public claims made by Tokic publicly made, let the gentleman preside over it publicly and deal with it and there is the public to condemn and judge. I would ask that we return to the agenda to adopt it and work in this home, and these are, however, these kinds of issues that heat up the atmosphere needlessly in such an important and high home that these issues, however, for other levels and forms of debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u913	Mr. Spahić, is it an assumption? Here you go. You can vote on the agenda...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u914	I feel the need to, however, say a few words about this initiative. It seems to me that at first I explained what it was about. I didn't want to explain the content of the debate, which was led at the club. Therefore, Mr. Tokić made it clear that this was not in line. I said in accordance with the business procedure for the basic reason, which he as a member of the College was thus given the authority to agree, i.e. to seek certain compromises. So he made that clear. I also made 12 clear and at no point do I treat that I am neither abstention nor against, very clearly and Tokić and I are members of the Alliance. So I didn't think at all about this issue, I didn't go into his debate for one basic reason why I think these issues are significant, in which case I should be discussing the Alliance, or at least having the party's position. So, I don't have, so, that attitude and the statement, too, to be clear, I won't, I don't have to count on me for neither against nor by the state, that's very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u915	I'm thanking you. I think this third explanation is enough to know in detail what happened at the club. Here you go, Mr. Spahić. Let the esteemed colleague Ilić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u916	Mr Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, I would firstly like to clarify to Mr Špirić, a member of the Kolegijum, who is a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that a record has arrived, in which, in truth, at the point of 3rd sentence, is to be read: “In the further business procedure”. The Commission has not adopted any other proposed amendments, and points 1 and 2 say the amendment of Mr Špirić was adopted and in point 2. She accepted the change of one word, she threw out the word “authority”, so it's correct. I think Mr Špirić will now be ready to participate constructively as he has shown about the competition law, because that record is also ahead of him. I hope the Service has also provided a member of the College with information. I'm asking that each other settle down, there were other amendments, and it's being declared that we didn't accept each other. At points 1 and 2, we accepted Mr Špirić and the Council of Ministers to amend this law. I think we can figure it out so we don't complicate it. This law should remain on the agenda, as it has been acted very correctly by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission. There isn't any, you got the report and there's no reason for things to get complicated. It is related to the agenda item on BiH's defence. Now about the other issues that have been raised. On the matter at 18th, I wanted to draw attention to the following. In truth, it is interesting how the position is personalized, when proposing the agenda and how to depersonalize the person in the agenda. We were signed by the Kolegijum, therefore, on a draft agenda, which was not responded by any member of the Kolegijum, an invitation to discuss under point 18. This is how it's shaped. Proposal for a conclusion on a request to replace Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the president of the House of Peoples's conclusion. I must say, as far as I know, there are two deputy foreign trade and economic relations ministers in BiH, there is a depertionalized position in the pose and a personalised position in the conclusion of the House of People's Presidency. It is for me simply, in itself in the beginning, not in agreement with what we have heard about the lecture on democracy from Mr Špirić, who is used to having the ability to always justify such a thing, and I am not able to do it. So I'd like to pray that I know what we're pleading on. Are we pleading on the letter from Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, who referred us to delegates and to the agenda? If we're making 13 statements about the agenda, then I'd like to know about which agenda item, whether it applies to a person with a name and a last name or to a deputy who doesn't have a name or a name, that's what it says. I wish you wouldn't explain to me how it's meant to be described in the letter we received from Mr. Tokić, because it really doesn't make sense. Since the agenda is adopted, the contributions to the agenda are always attached. As for Mr Šimić's position as a third member of the Kolegijum, who declared himself at the end of the statement, I would like to say that I do not understand this procedure, if Mr Šimić accepted this vague agenda and offered it through the chairman's delegates, I would ask myself a question. As Mr. Šimić could then at the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples, attach and approach a change of attitude which has clearly considered the interests of this home and the Kolegijum to perform with the agenda, which would allow us to work without these ambiguities, which, of course, are clearly defined at the beginning. And finally, on point 18, I want to make my point. In point 18, of course, when I know what the subject of this point is, I would like to say that it is possible to overcome this problem, by not being immediately included in Mr. Tokić Sejfudin's initiative as part of the initiative of delegates and other proposals, which are on the agenda, I think that it will not be placed there, asked the President-in-Office, that, if it were necessary, it would, as a delegation as a delegation's initiative and request, be referred to the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and all those in charge of this issue, simply because it would relieve the agenda and which would legitimately retain its semi-sanitary right as a delegate, to direct any kind of initiative, and drugi, would establish one harmony in these positions in which we came, in connection with the statement of which we had debate on this matter. On the other hand, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that I don't see any reason for any conclusion on what's already been concluded on the agenda. During the adoption of the Reviszione Review Report, these three ministries, exactly what Mr Tokić insists on in one personal sense, is concluded and refers to everything. So that Mr Špirić, who was also a official of one of these three ministries as well as everyone else, cannot avoid the responsibility that will be processed on the basis of the conclusion of this home in the last session. There is no way to replace the issues and weaken our conclusion from the last session. Last session was precise.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u917	I'd like to ask you, three minutes is...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u918	It is my recommendation that this item of the agenda be simply transferred, if Mr. President agrees and if the College does not have a clear view. As far as I can see at this point, after Mr Šimić's statement, he puts it into the delegate's initiatives, perfectly correct, as is possible for every delegate to question. 14 After three minutes have elapsed, I would like to say quite precisely, just one more sentence about the point launched by Mr Jusufović as club chairman and about which other members of the club spoke except for Mr. Tokić and myself. Mr. Tokić, since he is, as I would say, a part of the agenda, is thus proposed by the club presidents, he probably expects that we will all individually now declare the initiative and that we will vote on it, etc. I have two things to say. First, to state, since this is an official one-off conversation and serious information, I did not get an invitation to the Bosniak People's Delegates Club where the agenda point was formulated as read by Mr Jusufović. I just got notice that before the meeting of the House of Peoples at 9.30 will be held a session of the Club. That's the first thing I want to say and I'm late for that meeting, then it's already been over 15 to 10. That's all I want to say about that attitude. Secondly, as regards initiatives here in two different ways, one way that gives a representative, as neither the party nor the party's alliance has said, as the delegate Mr. Genjac and the other who gave an explanation to the chairman of the Bošnjak klub. I must say, it would be logical and quite normal for this to be a statement by the Bošnjak klub, since this initiative has begun and it would be correct to keep this club in place during this session, after this session, let's get clear about these things in order to allow a normal debate in this people's home. I don't see the conditions to declare the point of trust to Mr. Tokić at this session, nor to include it in the agenda, simply because such a position, as I said, is a definition that would contain some fundamental argument within us. I know that many people enjoy positions, which would be possible in connection with this item of the agenda or any other item of the agenda, which goes al-person, so, which is why I would suggest at the end, I would suggest that the entire Bošnjak Klub be allowed to take a break during this or provide a break, I don't know how you'll do it and that there be a statement. He would also open up, indeed, and say that the club views delegates in relation to point 18. The Hrvat take a different approach to the statement on the agenda and I think it would be wiser to take a break and go out to focus on legal projects, which I believe then Mr Špirić, as he has always pointed out, will make a crucial contribution to the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u919	Mr. Špirić is reporting for the wrong quote, Mr. Šimić is reporting for the wrong quote, Mr. Ilić is waiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u920	Ladies and gentlemen, this flabby attitude of Ibrin, I don't think anyone can get a copy of it. Ibro probably angry that he didn't get some kind of call at the delegates' club, and he has to ask his colleagues, what's going on, maybe people think he's like a cat's weed, didn't come the same way. It is, since he often speaks to me, I have to ride my dear colleague Ibro here for 15, you will not find Nikola Špirić in any report as the bad guy. That report you're expecting is over and your personal luck or your accident is making a little difference that I'm not happy about, because I had a wonderful cooperation with my colleagues at the ministry. So it's not good at sessions like this to talk about your colleagues like that. I'm referring to this kind of friendly spirit, if you want to nurse it, I'm, of course, ready on the other side. I ask the delegates, since there are agenda points, as I do not deny anyone else I can nor the chairman of Tokić to offer the agenda point. I will personally declare every item of the agenda, the way this one or that chart is raised, just as you're going to do it. There's no need for us to compromise, but there's a need to make a statement about the agenda. If you need a break, you should take a break to get people – clubs agree. But I think this, the intrusion of Nikola Špirić should fit because he was born in '56 in the Drvar, etc. which was alive and involved in the work and there's no sign of a negative report. Mr. Ibro, it's not friendly, it's not collegiate, it's not parliamentary, it's not whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u921	I'm thanking you. Here you go, Mr. Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u922	I qualify this as a replica, although I am reluctant to do this, as my colleague Spahić has a little valuablely qualified his statement and I will use it. I would say that it is not much of a range to give lessons of logical nature, political nature, democratic nature, even moral nature, I am obviously so approaching Mr Spahić about my views on the agenda, and now... I thought I was clear in my first step. Of course the College agreed to the agenda. But you know when you got a proposal for a possible agenda. I judge my colleague Spahić to make sense that every day a man is smarter and that I would not be smarter today or yesterday than 15 days ago and change my attitude. I think it's logical and legitimate. I can't see, so what's wrong with that? I don't know what else to do, I'd agree with my colleague Špirić, there's no need for us to get high or intellectual or political here, to work, I know that Spahić is why I mean another important thing to say. College members are not deprived of anything as any delegate and envoy, so we can, of course, offer our position on the agenda and on any other point. We offered one and we have the right to offer the other. I offered a second position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u923	I'm thanking you. Mr. Genjac has the advantage, because he called for a wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u924	So I have one business intervention and one reaction to the wrong quote. I would ask the chairman to protect the dignity of every MP individually and the clubs of MPs as well. Termins, clubs and cat's grass are not suitable for the House of Peoples, especially from a member of the College. 16 The second thing, I was warned before I was even told to sit down and listen to it for three minutes. Some have been discussing for more than three minutes, and they've been tolerated. So, before I debated, I was warned, and some who broke the warning. Please conduct equal treatment of all delegates. The third thing, the guilty allegation on several occasions was mentioned, the College's capacity to agree everything in the capacity of the Commission. It's an absolute fact and it's an absolute business provision and the law of the College. At no time did the drivers of this initiative dispute that. We have disputed, however, that once a day, significant for BiH's history, significant for the overall statehood, is taking away that statehood and that in this way we do not have a single day in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is mentioned, but we have May 1st, we have March 8th and we have a New Year and we have an anti-fascism day. So that's what we are doing, which is why we launched the initiative to determine responsibility, the initiative in front of a group of MPs, especially when it is taking statehood, and in subsequent actions, Mr. Tokić gives religious content, in a way that organises meetings, on which it is predicted that this day will be plentiful by meditation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u925	I'm thanking you. As far as I can tell, Mr. Ilić can finally get his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u926	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, I've come out for two reasons. The first one is, in my opinion, an unnecessary debate, where we interpret each other. People came out with clear suggestions and initiatives. He's got a Rules of Procedure. You chairman also have a Secretary of the House who can help you interpret the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. We've lost no use, I think it's time. I highly appreciate those who are good orators and who show their speech skills here, but there are also the stands that can be shown. I'm here to work effectively and not waste time in this the way we've done it before. The second reason I'm going out is, which I pray that in front of each session, as the first item of the agenda, there is always a record from the previous session, so we may avoid some discussions and controversy, such as that of item 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u927	I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u928	The word has the chairman, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u929	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would not answer first, respecting the commitment that as chairman of this high house, I primarily need my time and my activities to focus on this home as efficiently as 17 functions rather than controversy and emphasising the differences in opinions that are reflected in this House composition and, apparently, in all previous years. I mean, the fact is that a whole series of incorrect things have been presented, and it makes me think that before I approach a statement on legitimate initiatives, distinguished fellow envoys-delegates, I want to say the following. Here's the thing about the Feast Act. The alignment has been fully implemented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I would remind this House that the legislator of this law is my pettyness, with several members of the Parliamentary Assembly in this assembly, that is, from an earlier term. Our initiative was to find common dates, which will be holidays and which will be worth it to the members of all three nations and both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities. In these efforts, we too have succeeded as part of a plea in the House of Nations and then at a consensus. Since there are two things here. One thing's purely business. Businessly, it can be interpreted by the prime ministers as no offense, nor is the violation of my duties as chairman being made, or as a member of the College, then vice chairman. As for, possibly, political responsibilities, to which it stands out here, and to which in principle is the combined class of procedure, the class of politics. As far as politics is concerned, I want to say this. Gentlemen from the party, who are talking about November 25th, have otherwise accepted that on November 25th, they voted in favour of the proposal as the day of ZAVNOBIH, and are protesting because it was called Antifascism Day. But more than that, since it enters into one political controversy and synchronised activity of all those who have been looking for different political views these days, also for revisions, etc. More important than that, the public knows that the gentlemen of that party were in '92. Year, '93. years of active action, banning and media assaulting any marking on November 25th. In this context, I think that I was obliged to declare it, and I would like to call for a consensus at the House of Representatives that this is usually done to try to reach some more dates, with the same political position that the dan of the Zavnobih is, one of the biggest dates and therefore is the advantage of that consensus, which is, after six years, after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in the House of Nations for the first time that day, recognised in the entire territory of BiH, which is far more important than the fact that it is celebrated by someone in certain parts of BiH. As far as the allegations and initiatives are concerned, other initiatives, because they are separate, because this is how we will declare ourselves separately, unless the proponent gives up, it is an initiative related to a statement chaired by the delegations, i.e. the chairman of the Socialist Group in the Council of Europe, given during official talks with the BH parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe. The chairman of the delegation, he said at one point you cannot deny the joint photos of bin Laden and Izetbegović and there is also an official note on the basis of that official note, the foreign ministry sent a note, which was addressed by the Austrian Embassy to which the public was informed. I wasn't there alone at that conversation. I don't think it's too important at all, whether someone took a picture or didn't take a picture, but I felt the need not to keep quiet about it in public like it didn't keep quiet in official official notes. I don't think it's a question of proof and connection of the previous structure of government with some circles or not. ...who today is the prime suspect in terrorist attacks is, in earlier times, working for both the other states and the other, if it is in which order this photograph was possibly, but I am saying, therefore, exactly what was said there and so it is said and I did not say anything in public other than that. I didn't say there were photos, I didn't say that I saw photographs, I said that the conversation said this way. I will remind the public, given that this is such a hot topic for speculation, that it is said in the note that, based on the writing of the press, the president of the Socialists mentioned these officials etc. which I don't think should be the topic of working this high house. And as a promoter, the third initiative that has been named here as a possible item of the agenda in front of the House of People's College is an initiative to launch the replacement of Deputy Minister for Foreign Trade Mr Prlić. I will remind you, we are at the House of Peoples, after a report on the revision of these three ministries and in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples has been adopted, we have concluded that all competent institutions are obliged to launch political and any other responsibility which is responsible for the illegality that has been established in that report. My initiative has been completely transferred from the Audit Report. So the text of my initiative was adopted here in this home unanimously. The only official, the only person who has been called directly, as responsible in the report over which this house is politically responsible is Mr Jadranko Prlić. For others, they are competent, possibly, institutions that have chosen and some other officials at a lower level and are responsible, of course, it is a matter of responsibility, to launch if there are therefore elements of the Prosecutor's Office and other institutions. I want to explain this to you, because any receipt that I have something personal and that this is something personal, on the contrary, the only official who directly has this home is Mr. Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade, and then the current foreign minister, Mr. Jadranko Prlić, and that was the only motivation. In short, that's what I publicly said, I couldn't patch up two papers, on one paper it says it's that and that man, etc. for all of this and Dom confirmed, the Office of Audit confirmed, both at home confirmed, and elsewhere did not notice that this same man on behalf of this House, with the confidence of this House, performs his post in the Council of Ministers. My principles can't be cut by it, despite the pragmatism that one of my esteemed colleagues would say that he was more silent about some questions, I didn't act so... The initiative of the Members' Club, an envoy from the Croatian people, I did not take it as a denial of the initiative, but even as a chance to overcome it as part of the single agenda. I don't think there's any reason for us to be very exhausted about it. Every point will come to a plea. Whether there will be a agenda item, and then what the agenda position will be. I'd like to say, now as chairman, that we don't spend this much on persuasion and that in the next period, if there isn't after this presentation of replicas, we try to approach the plea, in 19 ways to express our will to put the dots on the agenda, and then in the course of work. Thank you. Who's reporting for the wrong quote? 1.2 if there's any more false allegations. Mr. Genjac first called Džaferović. Here's a colleague of Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u930	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I only wish that, therefore, several false allegations made by Mr. Tokić behind this pay phone. Mr. Tokić, you, as a Bosniak member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Peoples, have been elected here, the truth against my will, on a proposal from the Bosniak Club. You are responsible for your work in this home for the Bosniak and Dom Club. Today, the Bosniak Club has declared your procedure regarding the holiday law. If you answer to the Bošnjak Klub and represent the Bošnjak, then you should have at least enough political hearing to consult that club when you decide to consult the words OF THE LAND ANTI-FASISTIST
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u931	You can replace the international liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina only with the words Antifascism Day and take that holiday specific meaning it has for BiH. It is true that SDA MPs voted 25.11. It's my day off. That's true, but it's also true that you, without the attitude of the Bosniak Club, replaced those words on the 25th day of ZALNOBIH in just the 25th day of antifascism. That's one thing. It's another thing. You said that the gentlemen of that party, you meant the SDA actively acted and advocated how much I could understand you in '92. And in '93, you mentioned that year. I'm not sure what years you've mentioned that it's not marked on the 25th of the 11th, but it's a simple lie, not to use another word. To the soul, Mr. Tokić, and even when Bosnia was defending itself, you had the custom of traveling abroad today that is possible if you weren't there, but I have to stand up and say that this is a simple untruth, that I don't use any harsher word. So much for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u932	An esteemed colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac, came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u933	When Mr. Tokić got up, I thought he was going to offer to resign. Of course, instead, he made a series of findings of many untruths, and in particular confirming the untrueness and deliberate falseness, as part of the statement and the treatment of the statement of the esteemed Mr. Šider. When I attended the Political Committee at the Council of Europe, Mr Tokić, as chairman of the BiH delegation, was elected on his proposal, spoke for 5-6 minutes. Most of it spoke with his tongue waving his head down, up, and right, left. The second third spoke Bosnian, of course, there Mr. Šider speaks in the languages of the Council of Europe completely, it is English, French, does not speak Bosnian of course, and especially does not speak the language of waving his head and it is possible that Mr. Tokić did not understand Mr. Šider, but it is amazing that Mr. Tokić, after clarification of Mr. Šider and his categorical statement, once again states today that Mr. Šider said: “You cannot deny the existence of photography.” According to 20, the justifiably puts the motion of me as a delegate to be the first item of the agenda to be a determination of responsibility and to make arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u934	I thank you, especially for this respect to preserve the dignity of all MPs and delegates. If there's no more replicas, no more suggestions, to supplement the agenda, I might. Here, is that a replica or an explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u935	In the end, if the debate is over, I hope so. The Hrvat Club is looking for a 15-minute break before a statement on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u936	I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure to give an automatic break. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the break has been extended, but I think it has resulted in constructive arrangements concerning the establishment of the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. [[PAUZA]] Given that we have exhausted the debate, I propose that we approach the statement of the initiatives highlighted in the framework of the establishment, or the addition of the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The first initiative concerns an initiative to vote non-confidential to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sejfudin Tokić, for not consulting and for that reason, which has been said, and is related to the initiative of two members of the Bosnian club of envoys. Who's for this part of the agenda? – 2 I find that the above-mentioned addition of the agenda did not receive the required majority. There is no need to hold the vote until the end, but if the envoy is asking, I don't mind, since this part of the vote is already clear, but we can. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? The next initiative also refers to the chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Determining the responsibility of Sejfudin Tokić, the chairman of Parliament's House of Speakers, over false allegations by the Socialist chairman's group. Who's up for this proposal? - 2 Who is against this proposal? I also find that this proposal to supplement the agenda has not received the required majority. It was an initiative to remove the law on the defence. I would like to remind you, in line with the Rules of Procedure, the mandatory item of the agenda, but I do not think that after Mr Spahić's intervention, Špirić insists. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u937	Špirić does not insist, just to be our next to install the text. It's not the Constitutional First Commission's fault, it's the services that...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u938	I thank, therefore, with this conclusion, that the service should be more up-to-date, that the amendment should be incorporated directly into the text, but through the form of the conclusion, and this issue has been resolved and there has been an initiative related to the initiative of the Croatian People's Association of Envoys in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the scheduled agenda point, at regular number 18. According to this item of the agenda, they transform into a process of responsibility for officials and responsible employees, according to the report of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I, in addition to the consultations in the College, accepted that the text of my initiative which you have writtenly received under this item of the agenda and I believe that we have included all the efforts related to the statement. Who's to rephrase this point in this way? Do you mind? Abstained? I find this transformation accepted. I propose that we approach the adoption of the full agenda, which was agreed on at the College and through this vote in a certain way get your support, although they suggest that I should not, but I would ask you for order, because we are on the request of the Council of Ministers, who is working on our request as a College in the opinion on amendments related to the set of the CIPS project, asking that this move be moved earlier, which is later on in the agenda so that we can express that opinion and with suggestions that have arrived earlier from the Council of Ministers and the necessary consultations, I suggest that the agenda has the following order. 1. The Commission's report to the House of People's College on an effort to reach agreement of the Prosecutor's Law and the Law on the importance of public documents. At the same time, I would, by the way, just point out, we couldn't prepare the minutes from the previous session, since we were just... finishing that session. 2. Law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading 3. Law on the BiH Defence – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – first reading; 4. Law on the Registration of Legal Persons, the founding of BiH Government Institutions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 5. The Law on Administrative Disputes in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 6. Decision establishing the status of the building and land in Sarajevo on the street of Marshall Tito 16 and Decision establishing the status of the representative complex “Connak” in Sarajevo on the Street of Bistrica 6 – first and second reading – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 7. Proposal for a decision on ratification II of the amendment to an agreement on a grant of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States for a programme of reintegration and stabilisation of the community; 22 8. Proposal for a decision on ratification of the VII amendment to the BiH-US Grants Treaty on a reconstruction funding programme called the "business Development Programme"; 9. Amendment II to the Agreement between the Council of BiH and EUROFIM; 10. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Turkey on reciprocal promotion and investment protection; 11. Proposal for a decision on ratification of the concession agreement; 12. Personal Card Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers 13. Law on centrified records and data exchange; 14. Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading; 15. Law on the Protection of Personal Data – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – Second reading; 16. The Law on Single Parent Number – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – Second Reading; 17. Proposal for a Council of Ministers' Conclusions, Proposal for a Council of Ministers to launch and discharge procedures for officials and responsible staff under the Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions; 17. Law on Free Zones of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – Second Reading; 19. Delegative questions and answers I may be, if there's a need to read it all once, because I thought I said twice the 17th but this order. Can this agenda be accepted? Who's in? Thank you. It's a unanimous agenda. I would ask the services to do the order of the new agenda according to this reading, in order to make it easier for the envoys, but I suppose it won't interfere with us going into the realisation of the agenda. Ad.1. A report on efforts to reach agreement on two laws in the College of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina This is a proposal for a law on the prosecution and a proposal for a law on the importance of public documents. You got the report. According to the Rules of Procedure, we need to declare ourselves in a way that MPs-delegates vote against the law. You've received your report. The agreement was not reached on the first law, therefore, of the Proposal of the Law on Prosecutors. I beg all envoys-delegates who is against this law? The D.A.'s office? - 5 against the entire entity majority was not reached this time, and the law did not pass. Proposal for a law on the importance of public documents. Who's against it? – also, this law in the second vote did not get the necessary entity majority, and I find that the laws in the House of Peoples have not passed. 23 The next item of the agenda is Ad.2.The law on amendments to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons of BiH – the proposal of the Council of Ministers – the second reading The first reading was carried out at the 9th session of the House. Now it's second reading. The amendments were submitted by delegate Nikola Špirić. You've got the amendments. The amendments are being made, according to the order of the members. Mr. Špirić wants to explain the amendments, possibly, give up or potential at their adoption. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u939	Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, have discussed these amendments on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. It seems to me that we've talked about the principles of amendments and additions to the law, related to first reading. But what I would like to draw clear attention to and what I would ask my fellow delegates to, perhaps simply through this debate, come up with a solution which is in the interest of those categories of population, which the law refers to and I think that the position and position of refugees and displaced at BiH level has been told so many stories that a political attitude is almost generally accepted that everyone wants to help people, that these solutions move within the framework of the annex, within the framework of the Dayton Peace Agreement of the Constitution of BiH and legal projects concerning refugees and displaced within and outside BiH. The intention of writing my amendments was that legal solutions should not go into reduction of the rights of the refugees and displaced. Therefore, there must be no reduction in the rights of the most vulnerable category of BiH population. I am sorry that there was no understanding from the restoring ministry, because you know that the Dayton Peace Accords provided that within the Central Bank of BiH, an asset fund would be formed, which would serve to address the problems of refugees and displaced ones and instead of happening, within the Central Bank, at the level of BiH, entered into a different kind of politicisation. One wants to stay, the other wants to come back, where the funds will be spent. So the activation of the funds at the level of the BiH Central Bank must be a priority, and the way these funds are used is, the thing that can be worked out. These funds can be used to rebuild, build burning houses and Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat who want to return. So destroyed property and in various other ways it can be used. I can't, I won't support a law that goes into reducing the rights of refugees and displaced at BiH level. I asked for this attitude, believe me, the opinion of the refugees and the displaced. I was on a couple of occasions on round tables, which were thematically dedicated to refugee and displaced, for example where the presidents and mayors of municipalities were and complete for 12 municipalities, rural municipalities, such as Sansko Most, Bihać, Petrovac, Grahova, Drava, Prijedor, etc. where I asked refugees if I, as a delegate in the House of Peoples, should support a legal project that reduces myself, reduces the rights. So I ask you to simply understand that these amendments are in the interest of the refugees and displaced Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I do not dispute the need to change legal solutions, but I am against legal solutions that reduce any right of refugees and displaced at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is the most endangered category. You know that while I was in the ministry, the Council, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, had decided to form a 24 central property fund at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The question today is, what about this central property fund? Is there even one mark that entered that central property fund to rebuild the houses of the most unhappy category? There isn't. But we had to insist that this fund be revived in the Central Bank. So, I ask you to just understand these amendments in the sense that they are in favour of solving the problems of the refugees and the displaced. Unfortunately, in Bosnia and Herzegovina through various discussions, they have sometimes avoided and displaced themselves whether the tone of these discussions has formed different associations, one for return, the other for survival, there. Well, then sometimes you get the wrong picture. The funds of the fund that, if they had come to life. The way the funds are used is also a matter where it can be agreed on in what way and for what purpose these funds will be used. Making payments to keep the fund alive is against refugees and displaced in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u940	Thank you. The debate has long been conducted both on amendments and on the law, and I propose to approach the plea. I assume you all have material on you. We vote on the first amendment by Nikola Špirić to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u941	How? 3 for, 3 against, the abstentions count neither for nor against. The amendment has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u942	Mr. Špirić has an objection to the vote. Please let the vote happen again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u943	Don't repeat the vote. The amendment has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u944	I'm asking the service to count.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u945	They counted. Let them say what happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u946	I'm asking you to let me run the session. 25 I ask all envoys to approach the vote. We repeat the vote. Who is the First Amendment of Špirić to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Six for it. Who's against it? 4 Who Is Restraint? I understand Amendment One has passed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u947	Voting in the House of Peoples is regulated by the Rules of Procedure in a way that both laws and constituents of the law, so amendments are adopted by the necessary majority of those present and with the necessary qualifications per entity. So with the required number from the entity, or 1/3 votes from each entity must be 'yes' in order for the amendment to be accepted. That the entity vote should be conducted to assess whether the amendment has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u948	Secretary. I'd like a secretary, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u949	The college gives the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u950	I'm taking a five-minute break to give the College an interpretation. He doesn't have the necessary entity majority. The amendment goes to the College of the House of the Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u951	Tell me about the vote until the end, because if the three are against it, and one for the entity majority, because the rest of the abstentions don't count.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u952	It's got to be in the first place. Okay. We're going to Amendment 2. Who is for the text of Amendment 2. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Amendment 2 has failed. 26 Amendment 3. Who's for Amendment 3? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Amendment 3 failed. Amendment 4. Who's in? Who's against this amendment? This amendment has not received the required majority either. Given that Amendment 1 is going to be agreed in the House of Peoples, I propose that this plea be implemented immediately and I am giving a 15-minute break to the Members of the College for reconciliation due to a statement in the whole of the law. ...to vote. At the second item of the agenda of the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The College has held a meeting and informs the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly that the amendment has been accepted in agreement. This has given us conditions to declare the whole text of the law. I'd like to ask for your courtesy, Mr. Džaferović. You can't. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the College only reports to the House of Peoples on the agreement reached. Since the amendments have been exhausted, who is for the text of the law with the amendment 1? Seven. Who's against it? Most of it's in. Let's move on to the entity vote. Who's up for this text of the law? I understand we have an entity majority from the Federation. Who's from Republika Srpska for? We don't have an entity majority. The law's going to agree. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a five-minute break to try to get the College to agree on the text, or to leave it for later. If you don't mind if we continue in less than five minutes, The alignment wasn't done so we'd vote on entities. 27 Who is against the above text of the Republika Srpska law? I'd like to ask that. I find that the law did not win an entity majority from Republika Srpska and thus did not pass in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the third point. You cannot complete the agenda item. You can't get the word, only if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure and it's strictly about the Rules of Procedure, and otherwise you can't get the word. The third item of the agenda is A.3. Law on defence
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u953	Can I have a word that I know?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u954	I'd beg your order. You can't get a word in. Third item of the agenda of the Attorney General Act. You got the text of the law. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. This is the first reading. As part of the material, you've received a report from the committee responsible. First we will have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? Is anyone answering for a word about this law? Mr. Džaferović, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u955	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I appreciate that we are all equal here in this house, and I want to make it public here, Mr. Chairman, that you do not need to discipline me in the way you do, because it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and against the dignity of this house, because I do not think that I have done anything that could put me in the category of those who should be disciplined.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u956	I'd like to ask you to talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u957	I don't have another chance to say my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u958	You have initiatives and the Rules of Procedure, if you have called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you can speak by the Rules of Procedure. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u959	You have denied me the word as a delegate, and I, as a delegate, have the right to speak. You've denied it, and I'm distracting you from doing it anymore. You have no right to do that. That's one thing. The public of Bosnia and Herzegovina will therefore, because of your behaviour, Mr. Chairman, remain deprived of the essence of Mr. Špirić's amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u960	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u961	I don't want to talk about it anymore, but the public will be denied.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u962	Please take your word for it. I take your word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can talk about the item of the agenda and you can talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure strictly stating where the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u963	When it comes to the law of defense. Well.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u964	Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u965	So here's what you saw.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u966	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u967	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Nations, each MP shall have the right to present the initiative and the proposal at any time during the session of the agenda. Under this right, I, as a delegate, use this right and I propose to put the agenda item at today's session of information on the consequences of the amendments that Mr Tokić accepted at the consensus to inform the public that accepting this amendment means that we as Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u968	I take away my word. Mr. Genjac is being taken from you because you're not talking about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u969	I'm not talking, I suggest you... Please, please. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u970	I take away my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u971	You can't be violent around here. You have to respect the Rules of Procedure, please. So in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u972	I'm interrupting the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u973	I'm discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u974	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm terminating the session for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u975	To inform the public what it means to accept amendments that we, as Bosnia and Herzegovina, cannot determine the status of refugees, but that is what other countries do. That's what Mr. Tokić accepted and that's what I want to inform you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u976	I would like to inform all the members of this House in accordance with Article 22a where the Chairman of the House directs the debate, gives word to the participants in the debate and withdraws it according to this Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Article 51, where a delegate or other participant in the debate can only talk about a matter which is discussed in accordance with the established agenda. If he steps away from the agenda, the chairman will warn him. If he does not follow the agenda after this warning, the chairman will deny him the right to speak. I want the public and all the MPs, the envoys and delegates of the House of Peoples to make it clear that I will strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, and in the following situations I will not resist even the exclusion from the House's session. At the same time, I would like to say that, for all initiatives within the framework of the agenda and within the intended agenda, I am at my disposal together... If gentlemen, delegates, envoys are going to make a statement to the public, I kindly invite them to use the premises of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the possibility to schedule a press conference. We're going back to work. We're discussing the Attorney General's Law. The debate on articles. Who's answering for the article?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u977	Not about the law of the Attorney General, but about the Rules of Procedure you were now referring to. Can I have a word? 30
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u978	You can't. Is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure? It's an incorrect quote. Business intervention 3 minutes. Yes, you can. Here's a dear colleague of Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u979	Thank you, dear colleague Tokić. Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman called on certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this house and he read them and I do not dispute them. It would just be correct if Mr. Chairman had told me that he had not given me his word at the moment when I had the right to go out for a pay phone and when I asked for a word, which was the moment when he informed us that the College had agreed to accept amendments to the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Refugee and Displaced Persons. I then had the right to speak, and then I was denied the right to speak, and after that all that came. I think it's very unfair and unfair for the chairman, but let him keep it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u980	I'm thanking you. I would not like to read the following members of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that, after the adoption of the College, only informs delegates in the House of Peoples about the results of the alignment and this is not the case. At least not under that agenda. For the record, I'm guessing Mr. Ivo Divković called about the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u981	Mr. Chairman, I've reached out to the law. I'll be what he says very briefly, and yet I find out that there's no one here from the Council of Ministers. So sometimes a man wonders who this is talking to. In fact, I would refer to two members in this law who, in my opinion, are somewhat unconformed, I will not say a contradictory, a little harsh word, but in Article 4 of this law says – the appointment of the Advocates and his deputies. The defence attorneys and his deputies are appointed by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the same law in Article 12, the exemption of the Advocates and his deputies and assistants, the second indent of that article, says, on the exemption of the Deputy and Assistant Advocates, shall be decided by the Advocate. So when he's talking about deputies, now he's not naming an assistant deputy attorney with him and the Council of Ministers, and they're being cleared by the Attorney General. It's like this for me one unconformed thing. I think it would be quite logical for the deputies to be relieved by the one who named them. The same organ the same way that it happens with the attorneys. That's how I comment on the processor.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u982	Thank you. Mr. Džaferović answered the word, and then Špirić answered. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u983	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I came out here for a pay phone to say that I support the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence law. It is a law that builds and strengthens the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this law is certainly in the interest of all peoples and all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would therefore like to point out in this debate, in the previous debate, one thing I disagree with, and it concerns the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, where my opinion remains in the minority. At least the poster got the kind of report you got. Namely, the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted one amendment to the text of this law, which says that the function of the Ombudsman will be subject to rotation between the lawyers and the two deputies appointed from the order of constructive peoples at equal intervals during the term of office. The issue is rotation in the highest positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions is governed by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we know that it is the Presidency and that these are the co-workers of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and some other institutions. It is absolutely certain that the principle of rotation is not generally prescribed in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina for all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the very least, it is necessary in one expert body to take into account the powers that this authority will exercise in the future. I think the question of rotation only makes it difficult for such an expert body to make it difficult for the quality and normal functioning of the organs, and I went out for this speaker to say for a stenogram, and that this thing and the processor has in mind when considering our discussions and amendments that I am opposed to the principle of rotation in this body because this principle, if so, is adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, by most votes, is therefore a legal decision, will only make it difficult for that body to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u984	I thank my esteemed colleague, Džaferović. A colleague named Špirić came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u985	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a good thing that Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence law is passed as soon as possible. I am making a contribution to this relationship with my active approach to defining the amendments, improving the text in order to adopt the law as soon as possible. I will not, of course, draw your attention to the amendment adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is an integral part of the text, but I will try, of course, to realize that this is a general debate or reading, the first reading of this law to say useful suggestions, and to the creators of the law, that is, the Council of Ministers, and in that sense my global remarks will concern several segments that touch or precisely define this law. First of all, with the fact that this law has and is intended for the Attorney General, it is illogical to put him in the position of the Council of Ministers, because, in its capacity, this job and their work will also be touched by the Council of Ministers, and we think that the function of the appointment and resolution of the Advocates should be held by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in that sense, I do not think that it is as good as 32 significant a body as it is to place the Advocate General's Office in a position against the Council of Ministers, and that would be my first suggestion. The second suggestion is that the jobs and tasks of the defence attorney's office are clearly defined, and in that sense I think it would be good to say that the attorney's office is doing the tasks of legal representation of the presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and other bodies and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the further text of Bosnia and Herzegovina before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That would be a precisely defined area of defense behavior. I think the broad-based consultative role of the Attorney General can create one confusion in a legal system that is otherwise enough to have what, of course, in the implementation of this law, would create certain difficulties and what I want to say at the end that the subject of this law cannot be the representation of the entity and the Brcko District, assuming that they ask for it because this matter is defined by legal projects of the entity and the District. Therefore, I ask that the scope and scope of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defences be clearly distinguished so as not to have mutual interference in certain responsibilities would certainly slow down that reform of the legal system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these are my general notes. I will, of course, be like other delegates in the opportunity to offer concrete amendments in the second reading, but I would like to have all of this done today, so a stenogram from our discussions at least come to the proposal, to the Council of Ministers, and at least once so far we have an active relationship with what they hear globally, so in the first reading. So far, it has not occurred that the first reading of any legal project has resulted in an active relationship between the proposings, so the Council of Ministers. It's either everything we're saying is absolute nonsense and there's no point in getting into the law, or what we're doing is absolutely not of interest to the promoter. So all the suggestions that we give are that we think there are on the line to improve the legal text and, of course, come to such a legal project that will be implemented in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you, so through the amendment I will act directly for the next reading, the second reading, but I would like the motioner to see what the colleagues before me and my colleague Džaferović and the others and Mr Divković to consider and to find it if possible in the bill so that we will not be able to forward our amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission only directly to the House. Here it is necessary that the Council of Ministers as a proposing be actively involved until the phase of the amendment action in this House and the vote on the law. So far, we have had the absolute passivation of the Council of Ministers and we simply have legal projects to take or leave. That's not good. I think that today's reason not to attend members of the Council of Ministers is clear to me, because they have a meeting of the Council of Ministers against the points of the agenda that we will come to, but it would be good to simply deal with sometimes the discussions in the first reading which, and suggestions given by delegates and MPs in the Representative Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u986	Thank you. Who's next to the word? I conclude the debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Please approach the vote. 33 Which of the members of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is there to conduct the debate on the articles? Who's in? I find he was unanimously adopted. Whoever opposes it does not have it, whoever is restrained does not have it. I find it unanimous that a conclusion has been adopted. We're moving on to an article debate. Who's answering for a word? As far as I'm concerned. Can we move on to an article debate? Did you pass the commission phase? Okay, there's no willingness to go to a discussion on articles, by reminding you that the investment of the amendment is not about second reading, but about the 30-day commission phase and asking you to be attached to this. But since there is no agreement to move on to the debate on articles, we are going to the next item of the agenda to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad. 4. Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's authority Proposing the Council of Ministers. First reading. You've received the bill's proposal as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading, and first there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u987	Ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, that was my general remark on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the appeal again, she's tied up just like the beginning of the 9th session. The proposal of the Council of Ministers shall be referred to Article 3(5). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the best intention that we are taking part here in the creation of legal solutions, so with our readiness and desire we are not in a position to make such a constitutional basis, to make a positive statement on the bill against this constitutional basis. I don't know what, what further possibility there is, I think anywhere where there is a constitutional basis like this helped all of us in a parliamentary debate to draw attention to the promoter that wherever the constitutional basis is to transfer jurisdiction that we don't have constitutional opportunities to do so. So it is no longer a matter of goodwill or consent of our own, but simply a mechanism in which we can transfer that matter to jurisdiction where a decadent proposer is called to Article 3(5). The constitution where the transfer of jurisdiction is. So I will not enter the essence of the law until this constitutional basis is resolved I would say constitutional way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u988	I'm thanking you. Who's coming forward for the debate? Dear colleague Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u989	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the law on the registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as one amendment to the 34 Council of Ministers, which these words – the authorities treat as an unnecessary word in the text of the name of the law, arrived in the meantime. So the law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is important and important, I would say an implementing law that allows registration from established institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This law, of course, has a constitution basis, of course it has a constitutional basis, has, since this is an implementing law for a number of other laws that have been laid down by this Parliament, i.e. the institutions created by this law, of course, that there is a constitutional basis. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, following the entry into force of the Constitution, a number of laws and decisions have been taken to establish legal entities in various areas which, according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina such as the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Agency for Guarantees of Political and War Risk to Foreign Investors and Merchants, the State Border Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Office for Veterinary of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Geodetics Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Institute for Meteorology of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Institute for Accreditation and Others. In practice so far, it has been shown that most established legal entities have problems in everyday business and communication, because although the very act of establishing laws and decisions has acquired legal personality status they could not formally prove this, for example. when opening credit accounts because they are not properly registered. Therefore, the purpose of this law is to allow the registration of those legal persons and, of course, that this law has its basis in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I support it for these reasons and for the reasons of the reasons that I have read to you right now here at the pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u990	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Who's coming forward for the debate? I find that we have exhausted the debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. At the same time, he would call on all the envoys, delegates in the House of Peoples to respect the Poslonik, the constitutional basis of which is assessed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission so that they do not point out at the House itself the debate that was concluded on the bodies of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. We're approaching the vote. Who's to conduct an article debate? Who's against it? The abstentions? Nine for five against. Without an entity majority from Republika Srpska, 5 is against it. The law in the first reading goes to alignment. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad. 5. The law on administrative disputes between Bosnia and Herzegovina has given you a bill proposal as well as a report from the competent commission. This is the first law reading. I remind you of Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure. First, a debate is being held on the necessity of the principle on which the law is founded. Who's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. I ask the delegates to approach the vote. 35 Who is to hold a debate on articles of the law on administrative disputes in Bosnia and Herzegovina? - Nine for who's against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u991	About articles means second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u992	First reading. Who's in? Who's against it? Please, there's a vote in progress. I would beg you during the vote we really can't ask for a break. We can ask for a repeat vote, but I won't allow a break in the course of the vote. We repeat the vote. Who's in order for the law to be passed in the first reading? Which, under Article 90, would be a formulation to continue the debate to discuss articles. Who's against it? I find that four against. Who's restrained? - One nine for, four against, one abstention. The law did not get an entity majority and goes in first reading to a co-ordination at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. Six. Decision establishing the status of the building and land in Sarajevo on the Street of Marshall Tito 16th and Decision establishing the status of the representative complex Konak in Sarajevo on the Street of Bistrica 6. 1st and 2nd. Proposer of the Bureau. Reading both first and second. Proposer of the BiH Presidency. You've made your decision. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u993	Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a Presidency Decision on determining the status of the building and land in Sarajevo, 16 Marshall Tito Street. I wish this decision were agreed in a way that does not allow for different interpretations and different dilemmas that can naturally arise. But here's your attention. I'll distract Article 3. The decisions, therefore, on determining the status of the building and land in Sarajevo on the 16th Street of Marshall Tito, which is said to be the property of its own, I think, of course, I do not dispute that it writes so, here I translate, the ownership right of the building and the corresponding land listed in point 2 of this decision is entered in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the common institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Item 2 of Law 36 of the preceding position will be entered into Bosnia and Herzegovina in land books held in the land office of the municipal court, etc. I think it is here, it is, of course, my view and so it will be my statement about this decision that the right of ownership is entered into the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that the right of disposal can be related to the Presidency or any institution that uses that building and then it would satisfy this structure and way of government as...in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a legal misunderstanding for me, I won't support it. Of course I'll vote against a decision like this. It would be good, given that when it comes to property, of course, that political agreement reached by the Presidency to publicly defend it in a positive promotion, but I don't think decisions are good in this way. It is the same decision to determine the status of the representative Konak complex in Sarajevo, Street of Bistric 6th, where it says the ownership right to the residential complex Konak building and the property belonging to the 2nd point of this decision is written off on Bosnia and Herzegovina – the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's written off not to the common ones, but the constitutional category is the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's written off to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the right to use or dispose can either be given either the Presidency or the Council of Ministers or Parliament, etc. That would fit the Constitution and everything it says in the positive legal regulations. I fear such writing decisions will produce unnecessary dilemmas, unnecessary politicisation of property facilities, etc. For these decisions, I want to say publicly, I will not vote, not because I do not want to solve this problem, and it is very important to resolve property relations related to the assets of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is illogical that we residents are here with someone else, and that is not the property of, say, Parliament, etc. or to be used by Parliament, but the way this decision was drawn I'm afraid it's not good. I don't think we change our mind about the Bureau's decisions. We can accept them or refuse them. The reason I'm warning is that we're going to achieve agreement on this and get not only for these two, for these two objects that are the subject of the decision, but also for the remaining assets. I think it deserves to be a little more serious, both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and all those who want to make an active contribution to resolve these property relations in one way would say the way that is in the interest of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. I'm thanking you. So I'm not going to support decisions like this and I'm not going to vote for decisions like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u994	Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Novaković reported the story further. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u995	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is high time for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to settle the issue of the status of the Bosnia and Herzegovina state-owned building and land if it is used by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In what I just said, so I said the property of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the use of its institutions is actually the difference between Mr Špirić and his concept and his view of this and me. Because Mr Špirić suggests it should therefore be owned by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and be used by individual institutions such as the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, 37 Council of Ministers, etc. So it's not just a formal legal distinction, it's a fundamental distinction. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the title of Bosnia and Herzegovina's property, and it should be registered as the title of property. And it's so done in these decisions. In this decision it writes – the property right of the building, it does not matter now which building the two decisions are and the corresponding land is registered to Bosnia and Herzegovina – the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here it is proposed to delete the words of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can't accept that. So that's one thing. I therefore propose to keep the text as it is written in Bosnia and Herzegovina – the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because the state is the title holder and I would ask all those who will continue to refer written documents to the parliamentary assembly, and who will also speak for this speaker, if I have the right not to use the term of the common institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are no common institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's constitutional terminology. So, I support this decision as it was delivered with the amendment of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that deleted this word - common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u996	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, then President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission Spahic.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u997	I must first of all say that I really don't understand that this is such a problem if the text says he owns the property, that they own the property of the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not understand this problem in this way as Mr. Džaferović has understood it, nor do I think that it is any (...repealing) of this Bosnia and Herzegovina, I see it in a completely different way. In fact, I agree absolutely that he is a legal follower, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, but Mr. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a complex state so that it cannot be viewed simply in a simple way. In this case, I must say first that the owners of these buildings are not only those, but some other buildings were the Assembly of the former Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the Government of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the Socialist Union and other institutions that were then in Bosnia and Herzegovina and which they were, and to which property was then registered. So the former Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would be logical if they were then the legal heirs of the current institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I really don't see what the problem is. Provision of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. Article 4(4)a. which is called upon by the motionor in the preamble to this decision concerns the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is empowered by the Assembly to adopt the laws necessary for the implementation of the Presidency's decisions and to exercise the powers of the Assembly under this Constitution. So, if we even looked at it that way, then this parliamentary assembly wouldn't even be competent to bring it like this. In view of what the Proposer, i.e. the Presidency, is called upon. In that case, it would be necessary to pass the law, and then the Parliamentary Assembly would have declared itself to the law of the van. In my view, given that we do not have a bill, and given what I said earlier, until the final legal regulation of this matter, 38 should belong to the joint bodies, i.e. to register to the common bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the beneficiary of this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u998	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u999	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, according to the document that we received from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and in accordance with one normal procedure that the Presidency does not usurp its rights and opportunities, but warns of the fact that the first and second owners were as rightly written here in the ownership list, that is, one is the list, the second is the ownership list, that it is a property that is registered as state property. In both the first and second cases, it's listed in the ownership list as state property. It is perfectly normal that, with regard to the fact that it was at the time of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, someone like the Presidency who uses the spaces in which you know, other than the Presidency, there are also parts of the various other institutions including the Council of Ministers and the Konak objects which are not regulated from the population of ownership relations, is therefore not properly entered and recorded in a way that this is transparent use.... It seems like a task to make these two decisions and support the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to regulate a relationship within what is already state property. Nothing can change here, it is owned by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's state property, and I don't mean to make legal traps here. As far as I know, all the lawyers who understand that. It is, therefore, not a transition and a change in ownership property, but simply a definition in the given circumstances of the positions that Bosnia and Herzegovina and one and the other homes should define in relation to the presidency's call to adopt these two decisions. Second, when it comes to that supplement next to and in the decision, it says exactly Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all agreed, Mr Špirić specifically pointed out as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that it was the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in this second part, and there was agreement of the whole Commission so that I did not see any reason to return to, as he would say in the discussion on the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we also expressed this in the Commission's report and finally the Constitutional and Legal Commission recommends, given the fact that we cannot now return these positions to laws, to review the entire property and state property, and we think that we can make one, I now propose this decision to vote on this decision. We recommend from the Constitutional and Legal Commission that one and the other be accepted, and if necessary, we can formulate the conclusion that, in relation to the whole of the assets of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state property, the competent organisations and authorities and the executive authorities of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in charge of providing us with insight into that property and to act in accordance with any proposal made by Mr Novaković to make one law, whether we have partial decisions depending on what the proposals themselves will be, or what our position will be then. This is about two concrete decisions. It's about very basic decisions and a need that is rational and I think that we could make an effort without touching the fundamental property of the state to establish a order of things that is correct with regard to books and catastras etc. That I don't explain it. 39 I therefore personally accept Mr Novaković's proposal to carry out an inventory of the rest of the state property owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina and to provide information to Parliament on the basis of which they could then initiate a procedure on laws or regulations of a similar type. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1000	Thank you. You're taking my word for it. Here you go. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1001	Respected counterparts Bosnia and Herzegovina are a complex state in the form of arrangements of an extremely complex state. But at the same time Bosnia and Herzegovina has a constitution in which there are no common and common institutions. There are institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask that the result of our frequent invitation to the Constitution be consistent respect for the Constitution and I particularly protest what a letter mentioning the joint institutions is coming to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Presidency and signed by the chairman, the chairman of the Presidency. That's one thing. Another issue is the Parliamentary Assembly's decision-making needs to be made in order for the Bureau to function, and the Bureau implements the parliamentary assembly's decisions. And the Presidency has made only a decision to ask the Parliamentary Assembly for the necessary decision to implement this property regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1002	Thank you. Mr. Špirić is reporting for discussion next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1003	Ladies and gentlemen, they're right colleagues who say it's about fundamental differences, so there's no difference in technical nature, so let's try it now. I'm looking at a decision here. The presidency wrote a decision, so it wrote a decision in which the signatories Mr. Šimić and Mr. Mirjanić were in. And that's what we want, based on the Presidency's decision, we're supposed to fake some debate now and sign this as our decision. I think the question is whether we can act on the Presidency's decision, if it's the Presidency's decision or if it's our decision. If our decision was then it required a little longer preparation within Parliament to come to a decision on a legislative proposal concerning property. It is certain that Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets will not be able to be resolved by decisions. From object to object, from decision to decision. This requires a little more effort and work and the presidency and all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm for one thorough work of all institutions that we don't have decisions to make. So for one thorough piece of work. And my view of this decision is for those very reasons. So I'm going to, uh, it's about fundamental differences, so we have essentially different views on that property, and my attitude towards that decision is going to be exactly what I said. So it's not like we're gonna let this go now, or we're gonna get through this, so we're gonna make another decision, so we're gonna let the third law, etc. Both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and all of us in this country need to get serious and solve things globally. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1004	I would like to thank you without presupposing that I explain too much to the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to remind you that this is a decision of the Parliamentary Assembly, or House of People, and the motion for a decision is the Presidency in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. This decision has passed the commission phase and the possibilities for amendments to be tabled have passed that possibility. At the same time, I remind you that given that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has adopted an amendment concerning the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no need to specifically indicate this is an integral part of the text of the decision that will be given to a statement immediately now if none of the present do appear for the word, clarification, replication, correction of the allegations or violation of the Rules of Procedure. As far as I can tell, no one's answering for a word. Who's up for a decision? Nine delegates are for the adoption of a decision. Who's against it? Two against who's restrained? Three is restrained. I understand that the decision was given to the majority required. We need to approach the entity vote. From Republika Srpska who's up for a decision? No one. I find the decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to be agreed. Unfortunately, due to the justified announcement of the chairman Šimić's absence, we are unable to comply now, so that we will first try to agree and, of course, report this highly esteemed House, envoys and delegates on the reconciliation. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.7.A proposal for a decision on ratification of the Second Amendment to the Grant Agreement between BiH and the United States for the Reintegration and Stabilisation Programme of the Community You have received a report from the Commission in charge. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? Does anyone answer for a word? Dear Mr. Špirić reporting. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1005	I'll be very brief since I spend a lot of time reading in preparation for the session. Don't mind me going out a lot. But my global remark, therefore, is not on this decision, but now on the agenda points that are coming. I think that logically whenever we get a change of decisions, a ratification of any decision or agreement to get an original agreement so that as delegates, MPs would be absolutely informed of what's going on. This way, I'm afraid of the way the 41st Bureau and the Council of Ministers are working towards us, the transformed counter room for stamping. I mean, I just can't figure out that any decision regarding a new task involved in discharge from duty, etc. Any decision on ratification of the Ino Investment Agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina does not deserve one here would say an introductory letter saying what Bosnia and Herzegovina expects, which are positive effects that Bosnia and Herzegovina expects from each agreement on each investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So that's one of my general remarks, and I think it would be logical when we get the materials, which, of course, applies to my work to get the original agreement in order. I don't know what this is about. I won't vote against it, but if I had the original text, then I could compare it to knowing what it's about. So I will support these decisions and agreements, but the general observation is the way we present them to Parliament, and we easily cross and adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1006	I thank Mr. Špirić. And this decision has passed the legal procedure. 30 days of commission phase, the possibilities for you to discuss both the content of the subjects of ratification and the very decision to ratify. I remind you that we have entered the final decision-making phase and I ask you to direct your attention and step forward and compare the moment of decision-making. Here you go, Mr. Turjačanin. Mr. Turjačanin reporting for word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1007	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow delegates, as far as I know, the conclusion made by the Commission to the House of Peoples for Foreign Trade and Foreign Policy was that we would also expect at this session of the House of Nations to release this text in the procedure at the House of Peoples session, to have someone as rapporteur not to say, and in addition to not telling my fellow Špirić about the presentation. Not only do we not have the basic text of the contract, but we don't even have here not to tell at least someone from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency's office who would explain the material to us. I'm not answering a word on the second item of the agenda, I'm sorry, on the next item of the agenda. The applicability I present and the supplementation of Mr Špirić also applies to the next item of the agenda. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1008	I'm thanking you. In principle, we can decide to stop the work and ask for the presence of members of the Bureau, or an official proposing, but since the commission phase has passed, I don't think it would be meaningful if you did. On behalf of the commission, Mr. Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1009	Mr President, fellow delegates, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy considered these two, i.e. decisions on these two amendments, and then Article 42 of the Commission, Mr Ivo Divković, had a serious remark and all the members of the Commission as to why there was no proposing, because Mr Divković had a need to ask some questions in terms of clarification before the Commission's statement. I regret that there is no such thing as a note in this report, but that is the essence of what was happening on the Commission on these two amendments. I think we then asked the Commission and asked the chairman, Mr Tokić, who is also a member of the Commission to provide a meeting of the House of Peoples for the presence of rapporteurs so that we could clarify these issues that Mr Divković had.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1010	Does Dom appreciate that we can approach the plea despite all this? Maybe it's too much to explain that we have properly invited the promoters and asked them to attend to their work and obligations so that we are only in this kind of dilemma, please, Mr. Divković, further debate. We don't have amendments, watch out for the ratification process no amendments. It could just be... (explanation)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1011	Yes, Mr. Chairman, there are no amendments and I think it is not disputed that we will support this agreement, because it is simply in the interest of this country. It is about grants, etc. So I believe it'll work. I actually had some questions for clarifications from the promoter in the way these funds were used. Because here it is explicitly said that the funds cannot be used in residential construction. They can be used for mortgage housing loans. Then the Trust Fund account isn't clear enough for me, etc. What's it really about, what's its purpose, etc. However, despite all these questions, since I have no one to ask, I will be very happy to vote for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1012	Thank you. I think the conditions have been met so we can plead. I ask the honourable delegates, the envoys who, in order to, dà consent to ratify the Second Amendment to the Agreement, how is it going? Do you mind? The abstentions? 13 for and abstention 1. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.8. Proposal for a decision on ratification of the Seventh Amendment to the Treaty on Grants between BiH and the United States of America on a programme for financing and reconstruction under the name 'The Business Development Programme'. You've received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? I think there's a lot of debate going on and on as part of the previous point, because it's a matter. I'm closing the debate. 43 Who is it that would agree to ratify the seventh amendment to the Treaty? Who's against it? Abstained? All right, 13 for and 1 is restrained. I agree that this amendment has been agreed to the treaty. The next item of the agenda is Ad.9. Amendment II to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROFIME. You've received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. Who is it that would agree to ratify Amendment II to the Amending Agreement? I ask all delegates, envoys to vote. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I didn't say they'd vote. I said they'd vote. The next item of the agenda is Ad.10. An agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Republic of Turkey on reciprocal improvement and investment protection You have received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. Please delegates, envoys, to approach the vote. Who is it that would agree to ratify Amendment II to the Amending Agreement? 14 all present unanimously agreed to ratify this Agreement. (Various name of the Agreement - points in the announced agenda and when voting) The next item of the agenda is Ad.11. A proposal for a decision on the ratification of the Agreement on Sucession Affairs has given you a report from the competent commission. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a word? Unless there are any reports for the hearing, I'll close the debate. Please delegates, envoys, to approach the vote. 44 Who is it that makes dà consent to ratifying the Agreement on Succession Issues? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that, with 13 votes for and 1 abstention, the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly has been given consent to ratify this agreement. Dear colleagues, envoys, delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in earlier calls you received our orientation that we will be working within 2 hours. It's not just that we're going to interrupt now, since the Council of Ministers is working on giving an opinion on a series of amendments to the CIPS project. I suggest that the 12th item of the agenda of the Personal Card Act, the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act, residence etc. Consideration after one hour break at 3 and 15. I thank you and expect you exactly at 3 and 15. The honored guests are under way to conclude their agreement at the Council of Ministers on the amendments tabled in this procedure for the adoption of the laws of the so-called so-called. the CIPS package. We attended the talks with the leadership of the Council of Ministers, i.e. with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Civil Affairs and Communications, with their associates, and in principle there was one favourable atmosphere to clear all these texts so that concessions and amendments could be reached, i.e. for the adoption of this set of laws. In doing so, the College decided that a session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina would end and continue on Thursday, the day after tomorrow at 11am, and by then there would be intense consultations in the College and with the presidents of the MPs' clubs. Thank you. The sitting was suspended at 1600 hours (continuing session 25.10.2001.). 45 Gentlemen, honourable envoys, honored guests, esteemed media representatives, I welcome all present, and I think we can join the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would remind you that, for the further implementation of the 10th session, a second reading is foreseen by the agenda set out in the Law on the ID card – the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. The Central Recording and Data Exchange Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, second reading. The Law on the Protection of Personal Data – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, second reading. The law on unique birth numbers – the proposal of the Council of Ministers, second reading. The launch, then, from the agenda point, the Movement of responsibilities for officials and employees in BiH institutions, according to the report of the Audit Office. The seventh point of today's extension of the Law on Free Zones in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – second reading. The eighth point of today's session is the Delegation Questions and Answers. We gave you the reason for the interruption of the session, because of the agreement within the Council of Ministers and between the members of the College, or the Council of Ministers, to ensure the procedural assumptions that we can today, I hope to successfully declare this very important package of laws. At the same time, I would like to apologize for the start, for the delay of the beginning of this session. It followed, because one of the delegates, Mr. Ivo Divković, had a car accident, as you can see, is alive and well, so it was only a attachment... to the difficulties of the College. The session is attended by 12 members of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, by 4 of all three peoples. I suggest we move to the first paragraph of the 10th session. It's the I.D. Act. Ad.1.Law on ID – Proposer of the Council of Ministers We had a debate on these legal projects. You received amendments on the table, tabled by three envoys, three delegates, at the same time by members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Those amendments also represent amendments that are subject to a full consensus within the Council of the Minors and previously tabled amendments, since the first reading at the 9th session of the House has passed. Now it's another 46 reading. I suggest we get started. Earlier, before the three envoys, before the College members, the amendments were tabled by envoys Nikola Špirić and Ilija Šimić. I'd like to ask Mr. Špirić. Does it stay with the amendments that have been delivered? We open the debate with these first amendments. Procedureally, we don't have a general debate on amendments, we're pleading amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1014	I'm withdrawing the amendments, since it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1015	Ilija Šimić had previously delivered amendments. I'll remind you in your materials, these are the amendments delivered with an earlier date.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1016	Gentlemen Chairman, dear friends, honored guests, distinguished ministers, of course, that with the desire to improve the offered important legislative projects, I offered... amendments, but in the meantime there was a debate on further improvement and, by my personal conviction, there was further improvement. So, improvements from what I, with my humble efforts, did, and what the College has signed today, fully contains the essence of the amendments that I have made, and I, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, am withdrawing amendments that I have made in my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1017	I thank my esteemed colleague Šimić. Within this item of the agenda, we have submitted amendments to the draft law on the BiH citizens' ID card, which they signed, which you got on the table, Mr Špirić, Mr Šimić and I, as representatives – delegates, at the same time and as members of the College. I ask if any of the promoters of these amendments would like to take the floor to explain these amendments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1018	Honored College, distinguished members of the Council of Minsitarians, fellow delegates, members of 89. The Rules of Procedure on Labour have been said that delegates and clubs of the people can propose amendments, which challenge the amendments that the Commission has included in the electoral text. They deliver the adopted amendments, at least 48 hours before the beginning of the session. We got the commission's position, according to the proposed amendments, Mr Špirić and I didn't see those amendments, that commission position might be somewhere. If not, then the commission could take a stand on those amendments. If the commission phase has passed, then the article 89 is not respected. Furthermore, here is the obligation that amendments to delivery within 48 hours and the objective, let's assume this was, that delegates could submit amendments to new amendments that I, gentlemen, am not able to deliver within some five minutes, given that I have received amendments to the amendments here today, a few 47 minutes ago, for which I need some time. In this sense, I, as a delegate, cannot participate properly in this debate, this is what the College has made impossible for me. I also don't understand why this hastiness of the College and why it hasn't been provided for 48 hours. Which is why the haste, if we know that tomorrow, a consultation meeting by the Presidency is scheduled here on Friday, means he called the Bureau, and in connection with the CIPS laws. Is it necessary, gentlemen, until the matter is done, so that this meeting doesn't have any function at all?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1019	The only thing you can talk about is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you're done with the allegations of injury, we can give an answer, if you're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1020	So here, it is now said in Article 3, that after the debate has begun, the chairman may, in consultation with the deputies, apply new amendments, only in the following cases and in which cases he may apply the new amendments. I ask you, where is the right of the delegate to propose these new amendments? I'm talking about the right of the delegates to propose amendments to amendments, not your right to allow for new amendments, which you have made possible... and I have the right to make amendments within 48 hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1021	I'm thanking you. There have been several questions asked, but I will answer only what applied to business intervention. In Article 89(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: It follows that the Chair, in consultation with the Vice-President, may apply n of these amendments only in the following cases, when they refer to new aspects which the Commission could not take into account and when trying to bring two or more of the above issues under discussion. I suppose you recognize yourself that there are both acts here and the other, the sovereign right of the chairman and of the College, to allow, in accordance with this business provision, amendments to be made until the adoption of the law. I will remind you esteemed colleagues, that when setting the agenda, I pointed out that these laws were open to making amendments, as well as the law on free zones. Also, as a law where the College decided that new moments had arisen. We respect the need, if there is a need for a delegate's club to request a break to consult, possibly, on amendments. We can give that break in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for up to half an hour and thus perhaps try to provide as constructive affidavit as possible and the actions of delegates from your people and from all peoples. That would be so much so that I would ask you as president of the club to plead immediately. Did your intervention intend to, possibly seeking a break? The rest of what we said was based on these points and has already been said before. At the same time, not wanting any pressure on anyone, I would like to report on the very important importance of adopting this package of laws and the fact that members of the distinguished House of Representatives are waiting to join the continuation of their work after the meeting of this House. 48 At the same time, when we broke up, we invited all delegates to stay in Sarajevo, so that the consultations would be permanent and that the more timely amendments might be delivered. Are you, sir, colleague Novaković, looking for a break, or can we approach further work? Thank you. I would now call upon, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that, possibly, one of the motions of this amendment may take the floor. This is Mr. Nikola Špirić reporting as one of the amendments that you received on the table. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1022	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I have invested, I must admit, a lot of effort these days and in writing amendments and code, I would say, reaching a compromise on certain amendments and that is why today, and otherwise, I have been prepared to talk about the essence and less about procedures. There's hardly any legal project where we can't get pissed off at procedures, and I don't think there's any need. I would like us to open a debate on the essence of legal projects and, in the interest of BiH and its entities, come to those projects, which have been in the process too long. All those who wanted to give opinions, to give an opinion, to give any other opinion, had enough time. All that's written in these laws... the authors of these questions are here today in the O.R. and, of course, I can agree to face my thoughts. I must say that I have offered on every legal project from the CIPS, therefore, from the global CIPS project by several amendments, somewhere over ten amendments and of course in a preliminary debate, we all know that there is no maximum and that the compromise consists of accepting or not accepting these amendments. Now I want to publicly say that all those who have made a constructive contribution, have worked in BiH's interest to bring these amendments into line, I think above all on the Council of Ministers, political parties, at different levels of government representatives in entities and in BiH. I think this could have been the way or the new beginning of BiH, which is in the interest of its citizens and entities or the way of mutually tripping and punishing BiH. I believe today will be the first time we've ever been. So, in the interest of the prosperity of BiH and its entities. I also want to draw attention to the fact that in our consultations with each other, we had some of the limitations, which may not be standard for... countries, but that's where our country is in this situation. Those restrictions, I would say, or good instructions are, come from the offices of the international community, above all from the OHR. I want to tell you that in June 2001, we were given a clear OHR stance against the CIP project. I'll read only one passport so you'll see how much effort it took at all national levels to come to a compromise, so that we can get to the bottom of the legal projects today. On the other side of the letter, which was sent to the College, which was sent to me, the Council of Ministers appears to have confirmed the 23rd position, the Council of Ministers who was in the meeting and the attempt to bring the amendments into line and the personal position I have invested 49 said. That on the second point, I realized, therefore, the first High Representative's adviser writes, that the Council of Ministers corresponds to an alternative to the ID law, which would require the introduction of the entity's name on all BiH ID cards. My office is very opposed to this alternative, since the introduction of data related to substate tags would be contrary to international standards. The second paragraph says, the EU Council recommends 77.26 setting up, harmonising ID cards, Member States, talks about the importance of drawing up a format for ID cards that would be common to all Member States. So, this is not just about BiH, but about the redeployed travel documents of the member states of Europe, and I think that any abduction of such a way of redecorating travel documents is only a punishment for the citizens of BiH. And, I, I think these laws could have given more, that there could have been more consensus, and I want to show you after these clear OHR views, that all those who wanted, therefore, and more expensive solutions in BiH than what was offered, have worked to harmonise the relationship in BiH in the interests of its citizens and, I think, have taken the seriousness of working on these projects and have therefore not been rigorously further warned. I want, too, to say that the largest number of amendments, I would say 90% of the amendments I proposed were adopted. I want to say it publicly, for media speculation, which is otherwise present in the public, so the other day I read the Srbin forgot the Cyrillic, and I want to show you that Article 3 says exactly that the ID card will be written in English, French, Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian, so there is no forgetting Cyrillic and no need for such inscriptions to anyone. They are against Bosnia and Herzegovina and against the adoption of legal projects. The amendment also referred to the appearance of the ID card, where we were decidently asking for the name of the entity and my amendment and Mr Šimić's amendment were amendments that confront each other. So I'm looking for an entity name, Mr. Šimić says I won't name an entity. What else can come to fruit, rather than those who want to deal seriously with compromise, say whoever wants can name an entity. Whether it's a compromise or not. I think it's a compromise and a good compromise. We have made a further compromise, only where it is warned that those who take a ID card with the name of an entity will not be able to travel with a ID card outside BiH, because, behold, members of the European Union want to redecorate domestic ID documents so that they can travel across the European Union countries, so we have warned the public official to leave directly from the members, so we have transferred it to final and transitional provisions. Isn't that a compromise, too? So we said that the second-degree authority issuing ID cards is an entity ministry and a citizen who gets hurt in a second-degree procedure can complain to an official state body, it's the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. You see, it's not in that ordinary BiH legislative practice of any state, but it's a compromise, too. There must be something illogical to come up with logical things, so we have agreed that the central records, which is kept at the level of the common state of BiH, can also be conducted at the level of the entities. 50 So it's not forbidden. Anyone who wants can lead. So there's no ban and all the compromises, absolutely relax relationships on the issue of personal documents. I think that's a good way to go, and that's why I'm saying it can be a new start for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities or for the start of mutual incentives that don't suit anyone. So, please, if there are any fundamental remarks, we are dealing with essential remarks. I'm not completely satisfied with the legal projects either. You see, there's a good part of things that should be pointed out in a technical sense, but in this case, they're less important than the passed law. Those who wish to work in the interest of the BiH state and its entities, and it is easier to approach the change and amendment of the law, rather than argue that there is no law, because none of it benefits. Secondly, I must say that entity leadership, entity parliaments, are in charge, and if we have created, of course, constitutional basis, delegates and MPs to work to pass these laws, because they have been declared vital to the fight against terrorism and corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have received international support. It's clearly made clear, who's not in favour of the projects, the path he's on. I do not want, as a Srbin, a delegate here to take the risk of marking anyone in BiH that it is for or against, but I want to make it clear that I will not use the laws in party politicisation. I mean, if we follow that path, we'll get to legal projects. So they're not ideal legal projects. There are errors in legal projects, and I will vote in favour of these legislations in the CIPS area today, and I am pleased to accept the co-ordination in the College with Mr Tokić, and Šimić. You saw, Mr. Šimić has, absolutely, the opposite amendment. What does that mean? The two of us in the College, BiH while we're sitting here won't get it, and I don't think that's the way to fight. Of course, we've done other consultations, which I think are necessary. I think the Council of Ministers this time had active co-operation with the College of the House of Peoples and with another college. I think there was a co-operation with the entity authorities. As far as I know, there was co-operation. Who's got serious reservations, get him to take them seriously and see what I can do. So I made my point. I pulled the amendments, because these amendments settle 95% of what I asked for. I did not insist on saying that Amendment No 1. Nikola Špirić, Amendment 2, 3.5.10, it's all the same to me if these amendments unite what I've asked for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1023	I thank Mr. Nikola Špirić, who, as one of the proposings of these eight amendments to the Law on the personal mole of citizens of BiH, presented Mr. Šimić and I, indeed after this presentation, do not need to explain further. I would ask the Honorable Minister, Mr Mihajlović, before opening the debate on these amendments and the Council of Ministers' position, given that the Council of Ministers, defacto, in consultation with us, has made clear that this is also a coherent position of the Council of Ministers and that there is a consensus. Here you go, Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1024	The Honorable Presidency, respected delegates of the House of Peoples, fellow ministers, honored guests, I will not be very much engrossed, as it has been said so far. 51 The Council of Ministers has worked intensively in the past days to bring together certain amendments, which have been tabled by delegates, as well as by the second home, the House of Representatives and, on the basis of all these amendments, we have tried to find some reconciliation, some compromise solutions and just reconciliation of all the amendments that have arrived to us, what you have received today on the table. The consultations were, therefore,... besides the Colleges of Both Homes, consultations were carried out with the relevant holders of functions and entities, as well as certain political parties, to come to get as much application as possible, to sort of reach a project, which is very important to BiH. Exactly, someone said we were in such a hurry. We have been on this project for a year and a half and that year and a half and a half days without any visible progress, related to the finals, or the adoption of this project, and so that the project could go into realisation after the adoption of this law. And we're in a hurry, so we're in a hurry just because we're in another situation after 9/11. Our concrete contribution to the fight against terrorism is, the adoption of this package of laws, as well as other measures that will follow this package of laws, so that we can come to the realization of the project itself, that not only turns out to be declarative in the fight against terrorism. We in BiH must do so specifically with our own contribution. Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no state of affairs, related to identity, identification of citizens' documents in BiH. For that reason, they can happen to us and there are some things that happen to us that, now in some way, these days... reveal that we have a lot of gaps, related to one protection mechanism, which all normal civilized countries in the world have, and it's the order that BiH has, and that's kind of our realisation of this problem. I must say that these amendments that you have received, in addition to being in some way fully in line with the Council of Ministers, means unanimously. If... from both homes, or with the College of both homes, it means both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, and in this way, it's created one atmosphere, that these laws, with these amendments, which I would say, are peaceful today and adopted. I must say that this is not an ideal solution, that is, the law of ideal, the law of compromise, and these compromises do not harm the complete concept of the CIPS project, so they retain all the essential elements, but in some ways they also reconcile some of our specificities in BiH. So each individual, if you look at it from that angle, is quite equally unsatisfactory and satisfied with these solutions. So, no, absolutely satisfied and absolutely, completely dissatisfied with this project. It's this compromise that we've been working on and who, I believe, we've found some peaceable situation to get to this project. I expect that today, here is the House of People, after the debate, they will accept the proposed text of these laws. I expect so much that we will work, because we have in some way already reached agreement and in the leadership of the home, the House of Representatives, and today, so today BiH will adopt these laws and send a clear message to the world, which will also be very important, because the world expects us to finally accept these laws and that we will be classified in order countries, which, by means of concrete measures, supports the fight and against terrorism and yet to say, this law is important, above all, for the citizens of BiH, but thus contribute, in some way and our determined fight against terrorism, which is particularly relevant after 9/11 in the world, and therefore I hope that you will have enough understanding and hearing, for such a message, and that, in addition to these shortcomings, you will accept this set of laws that is today in front of you on the agenda. Thank you very much. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1025	I thank the Honorable Minister, Mr. Mihajlović. Following the explanation of the motionor and the opinion delivered by the authorised representative of the Council of Minsitarians, I am opening the debate. I suggest we hold a debate on all eight amendments and Novaković has already come forward for the session. I would pray that all those who intend to have a debate on these amendments come forward. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1026	Fellow delegates, first I must express my regret that Mr Špirić has already characterised all those who have otherwise thought they were against BiH. I'm sorry I heard that and I heard it from anyone in this room. I have to say I won't be delivering amendments to the amendments, since that right has been taken from me by the College, because I can't do it in five minutes or half an hour. I have the right to an 89th member who, of course, took my right to decide whether or not I can do it. I don't think he has the right to. The college thinks they're right, and that's where we'll probably stay. I will not debate much about amendments to the amendments either, because here I do not see any compromise between the amendments, which have been given to the laws which have not been declared by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the amendments of the three chairpersons, or three members of the College. I have to comment on a few of these. It is not clear to me whether the compromise, the fact that the applicant of an application for an identity card can be declared whether or not the name of the entity of the entity of the entity of the entity is entered and then the Article 40. shows that the rule will be adopted. Gentlemen, will someone by a rule tell you who can and can't get out of this country? If he didn't or did, he pleaded as a citizen of an entity. It is, I guess, the fundamental and fundamental right of every citizen of this country. Unfortunately, this right of these laws has been challenged, or at least questioned. There are a lot of cases where a country, which makes some law, prevents its citizens from coming out of the country. Unfortunately, there have been cases, at the source of communism, that countries in Eastern Europe have made it impossible for their citizens to leave the country for a certain period. To me, this is, unfortunately... The story of how this document will mean something special when we go out... to remember passports, which are said to be, let's just change it and then there's no problem of a world country, of a European country, can't wait for our visas to be lifted. We change the passport and immediately the day after that Hungary and some other countries hit our visas. How good is this document, shows the fact, how much can we go out today and where can we enter with this document, or what European and world countries? That's the kind of story they keep going on here. I'm expressing my personal dissent. Whether the entity interior ministries will keep records or not, that's their business. According to this one here, it has no meaning at all. Maintain it or not maintain it, it doesn't mean, practically nothing. They couldn't. It's all one thing. Which is why I have to comment on this fact. It is not clear to me yet, which is why it is urgent, if Amendment VII, Article 38, is said to be recast and 53 reads: “When all the necessary conditions are met for the launch of the process for the issue of the ID card, the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communication, to this end, brings an appropriate act.” When the conditions are met. Is that an emergency, gentlemen, two or three days? Is this the urgency that we have to do today, and not after the consultations scheduled for Friday, where in these consultations and entity leadership, they will clearly and loudly say what they think about this. I will, of course, show the way to vote when it's voted. But I couldn't help but say what I said, because gentlemen, this is probably one of the sessions that will be discussed a lot, but also one of the sessions where acts will be brought, which in many ways violate human rights and many conventions and let the Constitution of this country go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1027	I thank you, Mr. Turjačanin and Mr. Spahić have come to the floor so far and I would just answer a few of the questions that have been repeated here and which, defacto, after the claims have been made and do not answer the facts. Envoys, delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, have had the opportunity to submit amendments to the text of the BiH citizens' ID law since it entered the parliamentary procedure, and you can see from the material itself, that it is 10.7. At the commission stage is during the first reading, Mr. Novaković did not have any of the amendments. In this context, allow it to be many, many months and sessions, where an opportunity could be used to improve this text, except for colleagues Špirić and Šimić, none of the other delegates have invested on amendments to the basic text. Next, the question raised here is, mentioning a meeting chaired by the presidency, a concrete meeting scheduled for Friday. I would like to remind you of the letter that you received on the table, in which the BiH Presidency, through the chairman, and I copied this letter and delivered to everyone, invited all members of the Parliamentary Assembly, all members of the House of People, to be responsible and to make sure that this very important package of laws is adopted, so that, try to create an atmosphere, as we, contrary to the Presidency, insist, we are precisely in accordance with the intensities and wishes of all BiH institutions, try to provide as soon as possible the adoption of this law, which, as the minister said, is long in the procedure. Those were the answers, related to the questions asked. The word was reported: Turjačanin, Spahić, Džaferović and Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1028	The esteemed Presidency, respected fellow delegates, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will, after reporting for this pay phone, just a moment to try, not to say from the point of view of an ordinary citizen, not a legal expert to interpret only the order of law. Some logic, and here with some normal algorithm, I can see that, on occasion, the central record law and the data exchange were put on the table after the ID bill. I consider it once, and everyone else's laws in a set of CIPS residence laws, personal data protection laws and a single birth number, we've come to understand a little bit of an unambiguous law-making algorithm, because I think these laws should, in any case, precede their adoption, by passing a law on the ID card. Is that a little awkward, not to say 54 setting up the agenda and proposing the Council of Ministers, but there comes a illogicality. As for the amendments, which have been submitted and agreed to the College of the House of Nations, they represent a significant qualitative shift in relation to the proposed draft in the first reading of the Personal Card Act. This qualitative shift is good, with the fact that he would also comment on something relating to Amendment 8. The regulation on the procedure and perhaps on that rulebook here whether it was unfortunately explained by fellow Špirić, perhaps as a representative of the College, an explanation of this rule has led me here in doubt that it will lead to the discriminatory relationship between the internal resume of BiH. We bring certain documents, again I speak as a simple citizen and understand me on this reflection, not as a delegate with instructions from any political group, club, etc. It's a little bit different to me. You know, the international community and homogenising not to say BiH's registries with the international community we're supposed to meet in, does not include automatically derogating BiH's internal arrangement. Please don't tell me that this speaker is being told that if someone in the case of an entity's ID card in the title of a ID card is automatically being brought in, and we from here... it's automatically discriminatory in relation to those who don't enter it, etc. I think it's an unfortunately engaged formulation for this speaker here and that she shouldn't be watched like this. That's the next moment. To tell you one thing, I do not have any special experience in the work of Members, or Parliamentarians, in order to correctly and fully interpret the items of the Rules of Procedure, etc. Perhaps this is the result of something that has been defined in Parliament in an unfortunate way by the Members of Parliament, by the fallen MPs, by the professional MPs, by the people who can deal with the work and by those who live on other breads, so this is, not to say,... perhaps I also want to say that often and unhappily manipulates the incomes of some etc. I want you to also, say that...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1029	I'd ask you to hold on...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1030	I'll držati to it. It's going right into these amendments. Believe me, as a delegate with certain denied rights, an extremely... legal service may put this lack of legal not to say the texts in helping to make certain amendments, and also, in a hasty manner, not to say these amendments to the Commission's relation to constitutional law, and then the College, then the adoption of amendments, not to say five minutes, brings us a little bit into an invisible situation in a possible discussion, or a proposal for an amendment to the proposed amendments here specifically agreed by the College. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1031	I'm thanking you. I just have to explain that the order of the agenda is something that has been established by this home and something why you, Mr. Honorable colleague, Mr. Turjačanin voted and it has nothing to do with the Council of Ministers. Next, Mr. Spahić came forward for the word. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1032	Mr. Chairman, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests, representatives of the media, I would just like to remind myself that the Commission has established that there is a constitutional and legal basis for these laws, therefore, in general for this law which is now first on the agenda. Secondly, in the course of a debate on the Constitutional and Legal Committee before the first reading, no Member of the Commission has given any amendments. At the House of People's session, there were no official amendments, and today we have scheduled a second reading session of these laws, and therefore, all formal and legal conditions have been met, as regards the Constitutional and Legal Commission and Rules of Procedure, on which we are working, to declare our amendments today, and after that... the limit of the law. In view of the fact that the only two amendments that had previously been submitted to delegates Mr Špirić and Mr Šimić, had given up their amendments and stood behind the amendments that presented here as a group of delegates, I underline, it is very important, not as a College, because I therefore understood their initiative, and I would therefore like it to remain a practice, that each group of delegates or individual delegates have the right to intervene in accordance with these principles. I would only like to point out that it is necessary, indeed, in the future procedure that the Council of Ministers, I would like to make a statement here, given that almost the entire Council of Ministers is here, to make an effort to connect their business structure with the Rules of Procedure of the House of People and the House of Representatives and thus enable the names of laws, such as drafts, firstly, second reading, etc. proposals, agreeing on the procedure by the Council, as a frequent proposal for these laws to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, as there are constant problems concerning the interpretation of procedures between the Council of Ministers and the Representatives and the House of Peoples. On the other hand, I find it important to say, in this debate, that the absence, because of the dynamics of the adoption of laws and the proposed laws by the Council of Ministers, delegates, the Presidency, all authorised persons and MPs, may need to consider the Council of Ministers on the so-called. Minister for Parliament. It exists in many parliaments, it's someone who's...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1033	I would ask Mr Spahić to hold on.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1034	I'm sticking to the agenda. If we had such a situation, then there would be no questions that we are now opening, however, often, because really, procedural things are very important and, as you can see at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, it always sets out where the place is, which the authorities, which the delegates, which commissions and which Kolegijum are. I think these things could be clarified by a harmonised rules of procedure of one. Two, one co-ordination that would be settled in business between Parliament and the Council of Ministers. 56 About the debate that's open about the procedure. However, today we have a second reading... of the amendment. I personally think it's a good thing it started out the way we agreed on the I.D., and I think this last Article 8 that causes in some way an undersight or controversy, or it asks some questions of discrimination or human rights harmonisation, actually has one intensities that are very precise. In the first part of that sentence in the Regulation, procedures and ways by which the civil servant is obliged to submit, etc. and thus points out that it is a unique process and, whether it is in Zvornik or in Sarajevo and whether, on which entity, it is always the one representing the state and civil servants. So this is one principle that is affirmed in all these laws, which are the subject of today's debate and statement in the second reading. Therefore, I believe that what is called a compromise should at first be called a different one, not a compromise. These are real, these laws are, as Mr. Mihajlović specifically said, a year and a half in the procedure. The fact that we, having the text three and a half months in the procedure and now bringing this process to an end, does not mean, at least nothing else, but that this home is trying to do its job effectively because it has been given the opportunity to do so, on the other hand, this statement on this law, as well as the other laws, is not about the need for European integration only, but it is about the need to regulate internal relations. When it comes to the comparison of passports and these documents and central records and everything that arises from the law, I would like to point out that, in particular, any external position of an individual, citizen or state, can use internal cohesion, whether social, whether it's political, whether it's only a matter of record, therefore, any kind of internal organisation of the state, society allows a more normal and more stable approach outside, whether it's an individual or a whole society or a state, and I think it's, indeed, precious to be with this, along with those other laws that we have on citizenship, passport, etc. consolidates BiH's internal force, to get this job done properly. Finally, as regards these amendments, I would like, individually as a delegate to say that, that I think it is good that these things, in the context of life, not only in the context of the anti-terrorism coalition, or in the context of the fight against terrorism, but in the context of determining the situation in the long term for their country, are for their citizens of their country, which, of course, allows for society and the system and states to be clearly determined in this part. Finally, what I would like to support, if we were to try to make a statement, finally on this law and amendments as well as on other laws so as not to repeat that approach, because I think it is correct, that the proposed text of the Council of Ministers took over, as their own and went before the House of Nations, with one position, which gives the prospect that it can be adopted today in the second reading and this text of amendments and the laws themselves, so that if we are successful, the message of this work would be very uniform for both the House of Representatives and the Presidency. This isn't about mixed speeds, about us waiting for the presidency to schedule our meetings. It is only a matter of fulfilling the functions of one of the state institutions called the House of Peoples of BiH and as we end it, of course, should it be possible for the consultations that will be held on Friday, Monday, or next Friday, to lead in the spirit of further improvement of work on the adoption of new laws in a month. And for this reason, I find it very rational to approach today's approach that if there are no 57 essential new proposals and amendments, we will approach the submissions under the amendment procedure and this law and other laws as a whole. Although we could all say that we have reservations about this. Whether entities should stand, should not be state etc. It would actually create assumptions that we here today are actually re-longing a debate that is practically by procedure today, according to the Rules of Procedure, brought to an end in the right way, it seems to me that a consensus has been reached between the executive authority and the legislative approach of these laws. This is very important in the approach of these laws, and this is the private part that says that new elements have emerged, new facts that change the important process and way of deciding in the House itself. For all of this, so I support the approach that we are able to overcome one rational debate and finally declare ourselves to the laws themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1035	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr Spahić. Novaković's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1036	I really appreciate the speech skills of my fellow Spahić, which he has repeatedly confirmed here and for this speaker, but he would ask for some facts if they did not turn around. Namely, I don't know who it's disputed for to be a civil servant and who mentioned that it was controversial for a civil servant to give a warning. It's a dispute, Mr. Spahić. It's a warning, not a civil servant. And if you want that warning and don't need to be given to a civil servant, we are today, or today we are going to make this law clear to the citizens what they need to be told by a civil servant.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1037	Thank you. We are continuing to discuss the amendments to the I.D. Act. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1038	Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore no dilemma. The five laws common to the system for the protection of the personal data of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are the laws necessary for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I have come out for this speaker to say my view of how these laws should look. At the last session of this house when we discussed the laws in the first reading, I made it clear that I voted in favour of all five laws, but without those alternatives listed in the texts of the law, which relate to the questions to which the amendments of my fellow MPs from the College of this House have been addressed today. Why, as an MP, neither of these alternatives is acceptable to me and why I am not eligible for amendments submitted today by fellow Members of this college and why the basic text of the law is acceptable, all of which is the law that came from the Council of Ministers without alternatives. I would like to draw your attention to a letter that came from the Office of the High Representative on 29 June 2001 to all members of the College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina which unfortunately we, as MPs to 58 today, were not able to officially get here in this house and I am really surprised why Mr Šimić, Tokić or Špirić did not deliver to us as MPs a mail that concerns very important issues in this country on very important laws, which they received from the Office of the High Representative. That's why I have to take a little time and point only to some of the elements in that letter. I'm not going to read a complete letter at all, I'm going to read some elements of that letter.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1039	I'd ask you to stick to the agenda. We're discussing amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1040	Mr. Chairman, I've experienced once so far that you'll deny me a word. I'm very careful, you'll conclude, it's too soon to conclude whether I'm discussing amendments or something else. I assure you that I am discussing amendments, and you will have the opportunity to hear and see for yourself. I would ask you, I respect the Rules of Procedure if you wouldn't interrupt me in my discussions. The letter therefore says, after the laws arrived with alternatives, and I repeat, the amendments of three colleagues refer to alternatives, i.e. the solutions offered in alternatives. The letter therefore says -- one of these alternatives includes replacing the Ministry of Civil Affairs and communicating with entity interior ministries, which would be a second-degree body under the Law on Personal Cards of Bosnia and Herzegovina citizens. My office is resolutely opposed to this alternative, as the aim of this law is to place final authority for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ID cards at the level of the state. In three particularly legal acts, my office stressed the authority of the state on this matter. This letter is signed by Ambassador Ralf Džonson. We today have an amendment amending this position, the amendment of three colleagues, members of the College, in which it is said that the competent authority, the competent authorities of the entity are acting as second-degree bodies, so contrary to this letter, in the appeal procedure for decisions of the issuing and repealing authorities and the replacement of ID cards. You watch it now. The party dissatisfied with the decision of the second-degreed authority, the amendment said it could appeal to the ministry of civil affairs and communication. What degree is this, I'm a lawyer, I don't know. I've been studying administrative procedures. I think I know the Law of Administrative Procedure. Would you like to explain to me what kind of combination this is in administrative procedure? It cannot be said that Mr. Špirić is an illogical solution, and this is an illogical solution to be incorporated into a law that should be a logical solution and the law should be a logical solution. So the second-degree body is an entity instead of an original variant in the law that it is a state body, and the state authority is left with the possibility that if a party is unhappy with the decision it can address. I don't really know, I can't explain, I say the lawyer I can't explain this kind of combination and I'd like it to be explained to me. So much for a second-degree organ, or procedure. When it comes to the introduction of the entity's name, the original text of the law without an alternative does not provide for the introduction of the entity's name on a personal map. Today, we have an amendment that says that Article 6 is changed in a particular section, so it is said to give the new positions 5 and 6 that are read – at the request of the applicant for the issue of a ID card, the name of the entity may also be entered on the ID card. That therefore means that those citizens of Bsna and Herzegovina who want to be entered on a personal card next to the name of the state can therefore ask for it and the authority is obliged to do so in that case. In this variant, we will not have a unique form of ID in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will have different ID cards as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I would like to warn you, i.e. to know the position of the Office of the High Representative when it comes to the matter. It is said in this letter -- on the second point, I realized that the Council of Ministers discussed an alternative to the Law on ID cards that would require the introduction of the entity's name on all ID cards in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My office is also resolutely opposed to this alternative since the introduction of data related to national codes would be contrary to international standards and practices to draw up state identification documents and greatly compromise the value of ID cards as international travel documents. The recommendations of the Council of Europe and the relevant protocols, Recommendations 77.26 and the Protocol which explain why international transport does not require, other than the country's mark, to stand under any other national designation. Finally, it is concluded in the letter – it is clear from the above that the introduction of non-citizens' personal cards to Bosnia and Herzegovina would be contrary to the specific provisions of Recommendation 77.26 in light of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is currently working on admission to the Council of Europe would not be recommended to work contrary to the standards of this body. When the election law was debated, the right to tell you when I raised my hand for such an electoral law that was imperfect, incomplete, but I raised my hand, I handled the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its accession to the Council of Europe. Today it comes out with a proposal from members of the College of Amendments, with a request for an intervention in the text of the law against the recommendations of the Council of Europe. I can't accept that. So to sum up my argument. I also oppose the SDA's and Herzegovina's MPs will be against these amendments. We're, uh, the amendments that put up the three-wheel from the College. We'll be against alternatives. We are for all five laws, no amendments without alternatives in the text as delivered by the Council of Ministers, but I say without alternatives. That means there's no entity name on the ID card, just the name of the state. This means that the second-degree body is a state body and that means that the central record is only at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1041	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Džaferović. Džaferović read quotes from a letter personally sent to the six so that it was not the OHR's position but a copy of the letter sent on June 29th. Sent to the members of the College both at home.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1042	Can I just get a little curved?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1043	There was no discussion at all. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1044	I'm entitled to a wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1045	You can call the Rules of Procedure if you want, but I haven't discussed it. I've informed the facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1046	You were just talking at the pay phone and I'm asking for a word from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1047	You can only get it by the Rules of Procedure if you want. Here's three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1048	I don't need a minute. Mr. Chairman, therefore, I specifically said in my discussion that it seems that the High Representative has arrived at the address of 6 members of the College of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also said that the letter was not seen by MEPs of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. I just want to tell you, I have been a Parliamentarian for many years, the parliaments that have MPs and the chairmans are in which all MPs are equal, and the chairmans only chair the meetings and have certain rights from the Rules of Procedure and, of course, according to the Constitution. When you receive such an important letter, since we are equal, then it was a practice in all the parliaments where I worked to deliver these letters to MPs and don't make such mistakes. These are letters that MPs must meet, for eventually MPs make decisions and decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1049	Thank you. To clarify the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. When the mail comes, there's an office and how it gets to who it's going to be, that's how it's going to be distributed to the post office. And I don't think it's appropriate for this home to discuss whose mail goes to. As a matter of fact, Mr. Genjac's esteemed colleague came forward. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1050	Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, we have before us a set of very important laws, including the Law on the Personal Card of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the laws which, with their content and respect for European standards, should have contributed to the final removal of the humiliation of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina before the numerous embassies they experience waiting for visas. Then the laws that were supposed to contribute to the fight against terrorism, again by respecting European standards, and we had a proposal from the Council of Ministers of such laws that really made it possible and which, without alternatives, kept a large number of compromises in certain details and difficult compromises and bitter compromises, but I would say necessary. For these laws without alternatives, I have always pleaded, and today I declare myself, and I think it was 61 laws that potentially offered the opportunity to meet all the requirements that these laws bear with them and all the expectations that are being made. At the same time, of course, these laws have made it possible for the potential of a personal card to be realized as an international document. Today, during the session, we received a number of amendments as far as I understood earlier proposals, among them Mr Špirić withdrew his amendments and I understand that because the other two colleagues, Mr Tokić and Mr Šimić, mostly accepted Mr Špirić's amendments and now three MPs appear as amendment promoters. These amendments in my court endanger the basic idea of a set of laws. These amendments in my court, if adopted in practice and law enforcement, will show that the intentions regarding these laws have been failed. If the amendments are respected as proposed, we will not have a law on the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ID card, we will have a personal card law that will look who will. This does not guarantee that in this way we will contribute to the application of European standards, that at this moment we will help the Council of Europe to join Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we will contribute to the fight against terrorism. That is why I cannot accept as a delegate of the proposed amendment, I accept the text of the Council of Ministers without alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1051	Thank you. In the debate, we still have only Mr Rodić, a fellow member of the debate, and we will then approach the event with an additional statement by the Council of Ministers and Proposers. Here you are, sir, dear colleague Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1052	The Honorable Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, respected delegates of the House of Peoples, I thought today that I was not even participating in this debate, but I was offered two final discussions and I don't think that this is the way through which we can reach certain solutions. Now I have to go back to the beginning of bringing the complete CIPS bill into line and say everything that was previously, and above all as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I then said my position and he that throughout our work in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the fact that we are in front of certain dilemmas. First of all, it is a relationship to certain legislative projects from the aspect of policy and from the aspect of law. Irreversible documents, except for those, which are often present in our work, are a map of a road that is closer to defining the conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into certain European and Atlantic integration. It would take a lot of time not to list everything that would have to be fulfilled, but the fact is that many of these solutions are closely linked to the legal projects that are in front of us today, which have been in place before, and which will likely be later. For this reason, I would like to say that we from the Serbian People's Club had the need to actively participate in all these projects and amendments that have been invested in these legislative solutions were not aimed at obstructing work, but at improving certain legal projects, but not only to improve them, but to come to some compromises, and I think that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we can at this stage of political life only operate on the basis of compromises. For this reason, I would not agree to 62 analyses of the amendments that have been tabled, I will remind you of only two amendments and two arguments tabled by Mr Šimić and by Mr Špirić. The proposed alternatives referred to in Articles 6 and 7 should be deleted because the identity of the entity should not be indicated. That's what Mr. Šimić suggested. Mr Špirić's proposal was -- the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH was based on an entity. And now we come through the whole procedure, practically to a compromise solution that could resolve this complete dispute and now it's controversial. I must tell you, none of us should be a delegate here who will only raise his hand for what we get written. If you accept such a function as to do without the practical amendment action, to do it in a shortened procedure, then we can do it differently, not to convince each other, and here is what the previous sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly, including plenaran, have shown. All of us sitting here are in favor of the practical need to adopt this kind of project. When we come and when we come to the finish line, there are certain problems. And now I'm only going to say specifically when it comes to these amendments, I think we should consider the last amendment, Amendment 8, actually I'd like to be given an additional clarification. I don't think the rules on procedure should be laid down. What it means and I will read this article – the regulation on the procedure and manner in which the civil servant is obliged to apply for Article 6 of Article 5 to learn that the introduction of the entity's name into the personal card may be an obstacle to its use as travel documents outside BiH. I don't think it should be regulated by the regulations or by legal acts, but the official may warn the applicant of the shelter that it may be a distraction. So this is one fact where the applicant must be familiar with the requirement that it may be a distraction for him to turn a document that is exclusively an internal document, perhaps in a certain phase of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina into an international document. So if I were to be sure that from the moment of the proposed law in the original text without amendments we could go around Europe for a walk, I would absolutely be and raise my hand for it. But I think it's going to be a long time, and that's why compromise is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1053	I thank my esteemed colleague Rodić. Does the Council of Ministers have a need to step forward? Chairman of the Council of Ministers Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1054	Madam Chairman, gentlemen MPs, esteemed guests, first of all I thank for this debate that I see...no matter what some of them may be a bit of an obstacle, but at least my impression from this debate that I have seen everyone trying to go in one direction that would be as good as possible, which would be the sooner and the better to come to a solution. I owe you a few sentences to say about the dilemmas that set up here. I don't think there's any reason for these dilemmas to appear and I think maybe you've known for three years, for a year and a half, this is in a different form of procedure. But this project, it has been working for 3 years so that many wanted what they said at different stages to be involved and then lost the whole thread. Minister Mihajlović has already said that these amendments, which were delivered by the chairman of your home, i.e. the College of your home, are also amendments that were in the same form as 63 of the group of MPs, relations in the House of Representatives and fully agree with the Council of Ministers. I thank the College for allowing at least one very dynamic and active role together with the presidents of the other home and the Council of Ministers to come out of all of this without procedural problems. When it comes to tomorrow's meeting, perhaps some misunderstanding has taken place at a level that is the purpose of that meeting. Namely, the meeting was scheduled before last week, and the objectives of the meeting were not only to speed up this package of laws, but to talk about the implementation of these laws and possibly possible repercusions unless such laws are adopted, and possible repercusions are even moving beyond the domain of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to enter the scope of our international position as member states that are part of the global alliance in the fight against terrorism. So the purpose of this meeting is also, if I hope today in Parliament, especially in Parlamnt, to declare this package that it will be a new incentive for the meeting to pass tomorrow in a much more positive atmosphere and to focus on the implementation of this law, because there will be a lot of problems in implementation because it is a really complex issue. It seems to me that Mr. Novaković, if I am not mistaken, spoke of this amendment VII which speaks of these solutions. I just have to say that this amendment VII applies practically to Article 38, and it's probably a printing error here, Section 1. stands. This is about the Ministry of Civil Affairs, because this is a project run by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. This is about that, and you'll notice that in relation to the previous original version, this is actually a formula that makes the last version less rhogobatic, because it's the last version actually resulting from a bad translation of foreign experts. And what this member is talking about is that when an example is ready to be implemented in a segment, for example in a lawn canton, that it can't begin to be realized in that canton, or it can't be done in a regional manner, that regional centre in Zvornik will begin to realize the thing when all assumptions are made per project. The relevant decision is made by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. So that's one little inaccuracy, so there's no need to have any controversy about it. As far as this Article of Amendment VIII is concerned, I am also obliged to say a few things that should be considered here. In fact, it may be best for me to refer to the letter that Mr. Džaferović was talking about, because this is the letter that Mr. Džaferović could have told you, this is the letter that Ralf Džonson sent. The fact that Ralf Džonson referred him to him suggests that it wasn't a fresh letter, because it would be a little weird if Ralf Džonson had sent that letter these days. He sent him there at 6 months this year, and in that letter you can see that he actually, if I may say so, is dealing with alternatives that were within the law. The amendments that are in front of you are practically nothing more than a calm, calming down just until the moment this peace breaks. The alternative and what is the basic solution does not violate the basic principle of the project that it is a unique project for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it has a unique vertical in every sense of the word and all the horizontals that are needed. The amendments, namely Mr. Džonson's letter of no misunderstanding, that's very important to say about what's really important to me as a man who's been listening to what Mr. Džaferović said that I wrote uninformedly... (letter) would have gotten some impression that we were ahead of you, that the Council of Ministers had accepted amendments contrary to the OHR's views of June this year. 64 Here in the letter I will quote the same things to Mr. Džaferović that you were saying. And here Mr Džonson in that letter very clearly and precisely says that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and in communications to the entity interior ministries, it is one of the alternatives would be to be an entity ministry as a second-degree body under the Law on ID cards. His office is against such an alternative, he thinks the ultimate one for ID cards must be at the state level. In other words, the final authority is at the state level, but it does not in any way exclude the role of the second-degree appeal process of the entity ministry acting as a state body. In other words, we've just come up with a solution that we've offered to remove this problem that came up here. The next example, the contribution, this observation that is important and I think it is important, is that Mr. Džaferović said this, that, in this opinion, although the law itself provides for the competent authorities to enforce the laws in their jurisdiction, these competent laws on the resolution of their duties function as the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, there should also be a level above the entities and no need to allow this to be a assembly of individual records as if we were the European Union, not one country. This was resolved by the amendments that were in front of you and that are now in front of you. The third problem you mentioned was from the letter with the right at that time Mr. Džonson objected and explained that he would strongly oppose the alternative, the alternative again, because entering data on what he said to state codes would be contrary to international standards and practices of making state identification documents and would greatly compromise the value of the identity card as an international travel document. We consider it still considered, particularly important are these rules which OSC here refer to and as rules in Section 9309 i.d..1. a format that says very clearly that in a single ID card that should look about like that tomorrow, I don't know if it's going to be pink, this is one visual version of the ID card, international, Swiss, and it's something like that that we're making. All possible standards of this solution are met and, as such, this rule 9309 i.d..1. formats for travel documents which must be machine-readable. Due to machine reading, there is a part that must be done in a Latin letter and due to machine reading there is a standard of what must be here in French, what in English and what must be on machine code which is recognizable for loading. We in this project are about to invest about 40 million marks in its implementation of a framework over a period that will certainly last more than a year. That's why we think we should do anything to make a project that we won't change after a year or two. And that's why this solution by entering an entity name in this way allows things to go their own way. Maybe everyone wants it to be, it's not the way we predicted it here, it's not against these pictating standards and it opens up possibilities. But this one in the first version of this amendment was the proposal and they asked us to. I'm obliged to say. We have been asked by representatives of the international community to say this – if the name of the entity is entered in man, it may happen that because of some recommendations, the document cannot apply as a document in international transport. In other words, it may be that some country prescribes such as Austria in a period of time or Croatia or Yugoslavia, as our closest neighbours to letting Schengen countries go for a moment, it may happen that on the basis of this, because there is an additional name in the document that it does not accept it as a document for international communication. It may happen that tomorrow Belgrade or Zagreb, for the same reasons of running to Europe, decides faster to impose 65 things on us that our documents if we want to use them as international traffic to be without them. That's why it's said here that it has to distract a man. And that's our recommendation international. We are here as you can see it was the idea to put it in the original Article 6, but we have chosen to solve it in transitional and final terms, because it's something that will be a living thing, not something that will be so static. It may occur that after a year or two, a neighbouring country brings certain rules or instructions or bilaterally asks us to sort things out, and then we don't need to go before Parliament, but we need to settle it with a rule. And that's why citizens need to be distracted, and we have a legal obligation to prescribe to a civil servant how he's going to do it. And that's why it's solved by a rule in transitional and final provisions. And in the end, I want to say two more things. First of all, we have a unique form of ID. This is not against Council of Europe's recommendations. Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens are not waiting in line for visas because we don't have this ID card. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will wait less in line for visas if we also have this ID card and solve a thousand and one other thing that you can be sure has nothing to do with what it looks like here, whether it's pink or blue. This is whether we wait, or not, and that is why I remind you in the anti-terrorism plan we spoke about in the CIPS project or in the SIZGE system of identification and protection of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is nothing more than a translation for the CIPS. So this CIPS or SIZGE is the first assumption. The second assumption is to edit passports, the third assumption is to edit the State Border Service and the fourth assumption is the visa regime. When we get those four items together, we'll have fewer lines in front of all possible embassies. We'll have rows of tourists, not lines of people running from their own country. So the CIPS equally assumes that fighting terrorism in an active way, the CIPS equally assumes that the construction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the CIPS is an equal fight for foreign direct investment. Without direct foreign investment, we're not going to have any chance, and without showing this preparedness in total, we're not going anywhere further. That's why I have to say it one more time, but I really want to underline it. We, as the Council of Ministers, could have taken the principle if we didn't agree and many of us could have been in a position to tighten here with some intention that, in the end of the day, someone might have prescribed this beyond us. My personal position, the position of the entire Council of Ministers and the attitude of all the people who participated in this, one, the other, the College, all the representatives of the Presidency, is next. If we can reach a solution, which means that this will be a unique system that this will be in line with European standards, I responsibly argue that it is, and it is ours, even more expensive. It's better than being forced by someone and being carried away by someone else besides us. A register register of citizens in this country will exist. The question arises whether we will decide how he is led and the question arises whether we will lead him. I think this is the way for us to decide how to run it, and that this is the way, that we lead it. I am a man who is aware that there is a cheaper solution than this, and the most expensive solution now, what we have now, which is free, is gone and that is the most expensive solution. An even more expensive solution to keep it this way. Cheapest solution, I think for all of us, is what we're offering here. The budget may be funded by 100 thousand marks down there, but this financial, economic and for BiH citizens, the best solution, has a chance of working and I'm saying this, because I expect, indeed, Mr. Novaković, Džaferović, all of you who have expressed certain reserves in a certain way, is not interested in this being, that this 66 package be adopted. We've tried to look for this, bend this card until the moment it breaks and we've tried to bend it so that a consensus can be reached between us, because I think it's a real message to the world and to the citizens of this country, that we're willing to find a solution and go to meet what's called a common struggle for a better life. That's why I'm calling you. We have made this solution in the hope that those who are with us do not have to be on all packages legally together. This shows that the country of BiH is more ready, however, than it looks, and anyone who thinks that this, the imposition will be better, politically or for the citizens, is deeply wrong. Anyone who thinks stopping this will lead to an intrusion can eventually be accused of what might have been done, which they would have wanted others to be accused of. I call you again, indeed, not to let this break, for when this breaks, there is no stranger who will put this together. It has to start from the beginning, then they'll make it, then we can glare like it's a transbulin, not a classic map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1055	I thank the chairman. Rijeka asked for an amendment promoter, one of the promoters, Mr. Sejfudin Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1056	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, I think today's debate is the best way to demonstrate the consciousness of all members of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly on the importance of this legislative project, however... law. Discussions have shown that, reading the letters presented here, what we all need to know, which is that three months ago, all months ago, 15 days ago, and three days ago, there were different opinions in both the OHR and the Council of Ministers and, among the members of the Colleges of both homes, I dare say among those who are leading certain political options in the House of Representatives. The value of today's session is, precisely, what has come to a compromise. Maybe some exposure and show why it couldn't have come sooner. I would not want a statement on this package of laws and specifically on these amendments to be understood as a statement of people to the best version that every member, the envoy, wants. Obviously, these best variants are different, among different delegates. I mean, what I would particularly point out and what the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers has clearly indicated. This law package provides for confirmation of decisions in BiH institutions and the basic function of the package of these laws, including international verification of documents, which will be possible once we adopt these laws. Finally, I would ask the delegates, the envoys, to adopt these amendments and the legislation package that follows, because strengthening legislation, the adoption of laws, the affirmation of the BiH state. Not the adoption of the law, not the existence of the law, is not an affirmation of BiH. The adoption of these laws brings us closer to European integration. The adoption of these laws is a condition for European integration. Not adopting us is moving away and I can confirm to you that in the last days, hours, the Council of Europe, called and interested in procedures, paces and opportunities for this package to be adopted. Thank you for a very constructive discussion. Thank you for the tolerance expressed in different attitudes, I respect the different opinions, which have been on the subject of this whole debate, and I draw the essence of the three delegates' initiative, was to try to come to a compromise and we affirm this home 67 as a decision-making site in the interest of all the three Bosnian Herzegovic peoples that we represent in this high house. The debate is over. If there's no replica, I mean, here's Mr. Špirić, Mr. Špirić has asked for a 15-minute break. I, as chairman, am taking a break for 15 minutes. I would ask you, given the pace, that in this same room the second house of the ambush and that we have more laws, from this project, that it does not last more than 15 minutes. Thank you. Let's get back to work. [[PAUZA]] I believe that this break is well used, that in the plea we can obtain the required majority and consensus regarding the ID law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will declare ourselves individually on the amendments. I'd like to draw attention to some of the printing mistakes that are in the amendments. In the background of Article 4, add a new attitude 5, and that would be the third row in fact and the end, which is also the text that writes. I ask the envoys, delegates, to prepare for the vote. Who is to accept this amendment, proposed by three envoys? - 8 is for the 11 present. In the meantime, during the vote, he has arrived and, please, plead. - 9 of the 12 present who is against this amendment? - 2 votes against. Who's being held back? - 1 We can do a vote on entities, but there is an entity majority, unless someone insists that this vote be held. There's a required majority in entities. We are moving on to Amendment II from the same proposings. Amendment II Who is BiH State-owned for the adoption of Amendment II to the Act on the ID card? - Ten for it. Who's against it? - There are no abstentions. I also find that this amendment has been adopted. We move on to a statement on Amendment III – the same proposing to the BiH citizen's ID law. Who's for Amendment III? - 9 for who's against it? - 3 we can go to an entity vote. Yes, thank you. An entity vote is not required, but has a sufficient number from both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities. We move on to an amendment IV statement. Who is for the adoption of this amendment? - Ten for who's against it? – 2 I also find that this amendment has also received the necessary entity majority. 68 Amendment V Please legates and envoys to approach the plea. I ask all delegates to vote. Who's to include Amendment V? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 10 for – 2 against, I realize that this amanmdan has also received the required majority. Amendment VI Who is for Amendment VI? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 All delegates have joined the plea. 10 for – 2 against. I also find that this amendment has been adopted. amandman vi I would like to point out here a printing error which was referred to by a representative of the Council of Ministers. Article 38.St. 1st Reform by means of which it reads, changes and reads. Who is for Amendment VII with this correction of the printing error? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 I also find that this amendment has received the necessary majority. We approach the Declaration on Amendment VIII. Who's for Amendment VIII? - 9 for who's against it? - Three against. I also find that amanmdan VIII has been adopted and we can now access the adoption of the law on the BiH citizens' ID card, with, of course, embedded amamdnams that we have declared. Please, who is to adopt the law on the BiH citizen's ID card? Who's in? - 9 for who's against it? I find that by voting 9 for – 3 against, an entity majority is provided. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. I thank the envoys - the delegates. I'm closing point one. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. The Central Recording and Data Exchange Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – second reading The first reading was carried out at the 9th session of the House. The amendments were submitted by delegates: Momčilo Novaković and Ilija Šimić, and the amendments were submitted by Mr Šimić, Mr Špirić and I, in accordance with Article 89.3. I ask the delegates to plead, the applicants of the amendment. Momčilo Novaković, does the House remain to be declared on these amendments? Thank you. Will Mr. Novaković have the need to explain the amendment, as a proposing? There isn't. I think we can open a debate on Mr. Novaković's amendments. Who's answering for a word? Niko. If no one is answering the question, I am concluding a debate on 12 amendments to Mr. Novaković. Please approach the plea. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1057	Of course, that I previously withdraw my previous amendments, with this way that we agreed on the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1058	I think you have amendments. We have the first amendment, relating to Article 3(1). Does the Proposer agree that we are pleading according to this text? Here you go. From 6 to 11. So we need to make a statement on Amendments 5 and 12. - One, two, three, four, five. Okay. One, two and three. Are you referring to the old text or the new text? I would ask the secretary just to agree on what we're pleading on, since the motionor has withdrawn some amendments. So, according to the proposal, the honourable envoy, Mr. Novaković, has been asking for the home to be declared on the first three amendments. I'm voting on the amandman i kao's in favour? - 1 Who's against the amendment? - 8 Who Is Restraint? - 3 I find that Amendment I did not get the required majority. Amendment ii. kao's in? - 1 Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? - 3 I also find that Amendment II did not receive the required majority. Amendment III of Mr. Novaković to the Central Recording Act Who is for? Who's against it? - 8 Who Is Restraint? - 3 I find that most of the votes were rejected by all three amendments by Mr Novaković, i.e. they did not receive the necessary majority. We move to a statement on the amendments, as Mr. Šimić withdrew his amendments, the house remains to be declared on the amendments of Mr. Nikola Špirić, Šimić and Tokić. Is there anyone who would like to talk to you? No, I don't. I think we've exhausted the debate at the first point on the principles and motives of giving these amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? No one. I'm closing the debate. I ask the envoys to approach the statement on ten amendments by Mr Šimić, Špirić and Tokić. Amendment i kao is to adopt this amendment? - 9 for who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? - 1 I find that the amendment has received the necessary majority and entity. 70 Amendment II Who's in? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I also find that this amendment has received the necessary majority. Amendment III kao's in? - 10 Who's against it? - There are no abstentions. 10 for – 2 against. I understand that Amendment III Tokić, Špirić, Šimić, received the necessary majority. Amendment IV kao's in favour? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 Are there any? Thank you. I find that, with 10 votes to – 2 against and this amendment has been adopted. Amendment V Who is for Amendment V? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 I find that with 10 votes for and 2 against and this amendment has received the necessary majority and, of course, the entity majority. Amendment VI I ask the envoys to approach the plea. Who's in? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 10 for – 2 against and this amendment, Amendment VI received the required majority. Amendment vi kao's in favour? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 amandman vi received the required majority. Amendment vi kao's in favour? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 10 for – 2 against. I also find that this amendment has received the necessary majority. Amendment IX Please ask the envoys to approach the vote. Who's in? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 I find that with 10 votes for and 2 against and this amendment has been adopted. 71 amandman x Who is for Amendment X to Proposer Šimić, Špirić, Tokić to the Law? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 I konstatovati that Amendment X has received the required majority. This has resulted in conditions for this high house to be declared to the Law with these amendments, which we have just, most of the votes adopted. I ask the envoys to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to approach the vote. Who is it to adopt the central record and data exchange law? - 9 for who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? – 1 I thank you, I realize that with 9 votes for – 2 against – 1 abstention this law has received the required majority and that it was adopted by the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Before moving to the 3rd item of the agenda, I would only take the opportunity to welcome the Honorable House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which has just begun to attend our session. Moving to point 3. Ad.3. Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH Tačka 3.. Resumption of nastavak 10th session of the House of Peoples. First reading of the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – second reading. The first reading was done at the 9th session of the House. The second reading of the amendment was submitted by Momčilo Novaković, sorry, no, Dragutin Rodić. So, the law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens – the proposal of the Council of Ministers – second reading, the first reading was done at the 9th session of the House. The amendments were submitted by delegate Drgutin Rodić and were submitted by three envoys: Špirić, Šimić and Tokić, respectively as envoys and members of the College. I ask Mr Rodić to plead, does he remain with the amendments? I thank you, because of the stenogram, Mr Rodić quits for a reason, which is a good part of the essence of his amendment, already embedded in the amendments proposed by the members of the College, i.e. the envoys, Špirić, Šimić and Tokić. You have received amendments to the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens. It's about five amendments to this law. I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word about this debate, since I find that the proposings do not need to be added to explain. If no one is answering the question, I conclude the debate on five amendments to Tokić, Špirić and Šimić to the law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens. Can we approach the plea? I ask the delegates to approach the pleas concerning this law for these amendments. Amendment i kao's in? - 10 Who's against it? - There are no abstentions. I find that Amendment I with 10 votes for and 2 against adoption. 72 Amendment II, please, envoys, who's in favour? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 I also find that Amendment II also received the required majority of 10 votes for and 2 against. Amendment III kao's in? - 9 Who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? - 1 I find that this amendment has received the necessary majority and entity. Amendment IV kao's in favour? - Who's against it? - I konstatovati that the amendment with 10 votes for and 2 against has won the required majority and entity majority. Amendment V Špirić, Šimić and Tokić to the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens Who is for? - 10 Who is against – 2 10 for – 2 against and this amendment has been adopted. This has resulted in the conditions that, in addition to these five amendments, five amendments, which are being incorporated into the text of the law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens, are to be declared on the law. I ask the envoys and delegates to approach the plea. Who is it to adopt the law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens? Who's in? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 I find that this law has been passed in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. it has received the necessary majority and entity majority. Ad.4. Continuing the 10th session of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – the second reading was held at the 9th session of the House – is now the second reading of the Amendment by delegates Nikola Špirić and Mr Ilija Šimić and the amendments were submitted by members of the College, i.e. Envoys Tokić, Špirić and Šimić, in accordance with Article 89.3. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the amendments to Mr Nikol Špirić to declare whether he is giving up his amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1059	Ladies and gentlemen, as for the other legislative projects, given that the substance of the amendment is not all amendments are adopted, but what I think is important, we have agreed to 73 in the College, so I am withdrawing the previous amendments, and of course, I will make a positive statement about this. So, I follow the course of all the legal projects.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1060	Thank you. Please, sir, dear colleague Ilija Šimić, to plead. Is he asking to be amended...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1061	I thank you, for the same already explained reasons, for withdrawing the amendments, of course, in favour of the amendments of the three members of the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1062	Thank you. No need, none of the promoters need to further explain the motivation and essence of these amendments. They were explained during the withdrawal, including colleagues Špirić and Šimić's earlier amendments. I am opening a debate on amendments, proposed by Šimić, Špirić and Tokić. It is, therefore, four amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act. Who's calling for a hearing? No one. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we approach the plea. Amendment and who's in? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 I find that Amendment I. amandman ii has been adopted kao is in favour? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 I also find that Amendment II has been adopted. I would like to make a statement on Amendment III. Amendment III Who's in? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 Amendment III Amendment IV Who is in favour? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 I find that this amendment has also received the required majority and entity majority. The conditions have been met that the envoys – the delegates of this home – have made a statement about the law on the protection of personal data, with the amendments that we have recently adopted. 74 I ask the envoys to approach the vote. Who's for the adoption of the personal data protection law? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 I find that the Law on the Protection of Personal Data by majority votes and the required entity majority was adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Moving to point 5. Continuing the session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the law on the single birth number First reading on this law, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers, was carried out at the 9th session of the House. The amendments were submitted by delegates, distinguished counterparts Mr. Goran Turjačanin and members of the College, or representatives: Tokić, Špirić and Šimić. I ask Mr Turjačanin to declare the need for a debate, i.e. a statement on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1063	Since the text of the amendments offered by Mr Špirić, Tokić and Šimić essentially covers the amendments that I have tabled and, in part, because of the compromise needed to achieve these laws, I am withdrawing my amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1064	Thank you. This resulted in conditions – conditions for us to open the debate on amendments submitted by Mr Ilija Šimić, Nikola Špirić and Sejfudin Tokić to the draft law on unique birth numbers. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. I ask the envoys - delegates to approach the plea. Amendment i kao's in? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 I find that with 10 votes for and 2 against, Amendment I. amandman ii kao is in favour? - 9 Who's against it? - 2 Who's abstentioned? 1 I also find that this amendment has received the required majority and entity majority. Amendment III kao's in? - 10 Who's against it? - Two abstentions? There isn't. I find Amendment III adopted. 75 Amendment IV Who's in favour? - 10 Who's against it? 2 I find that Amendment IV to the Single Parent Number Act adopted. Amendment V Who's in favour? - 10 Who's against it? – 2 10 for – 2 against, Amendment V adopted. They have obtained the conditions for this high house to declare the adoption of a single birth code with the amendments adopted in recent work. I ask the envoys - delegates to approach the plea. Which one of the laws on single parent numbers is to be adopted? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 votes against. I find that the Law on a single birth, majority of votes and the required entity majority was adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank all the delegates for their constructive, good work. The College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH decided to interrupt the session, given the need to continue the work of the House of Representatives in the same hall and, given that the Council of Ministers also gave the opinion that the next points, including a statement on the Draft, on the law on free trade, are not so urgent – on the free zones, so that we will schedule the session in the next period, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. The seat was interrupted at 14.10 p.m. 76 Ladies and gentlemen, honourable delegates - envoys, your Excellencys, honored guests, media representatives, all present I welcome. Today's sequel to the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly is attended by 14 delegates, of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the order of the Croatian people, 5 from the order of the Serb people. Mr. Munib Jusufović announced that he or she justified the absence, since he was officially prevented from coming to this session. Since we have a quorum, we can make decisions in full and I will remind you that for the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, we have three points of the agenda left. 1. Launching the process of responsibility of officials and employees in BiH institutions, according to findings, in the audit office's reports, 2. Law on Free Zones in BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – Second Reading, 3. The envoy's questions and answers. Before moving to the realization of the continuation of the House of Nations session, allow me to inform you that the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a Law on the ID card and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data in various texts. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to establish a joint commission of both homes, which will try to reach an agreement on the authenticity of the texts of the laws, in accordance with Article 94. Rules of Procedure. The College proposes to the House of People, in front of the House of Nations, the next delegates for the Joint Commission, since he had already chosen his three representatives House of Representatives. It is Dragutin Rodić, Niko Sušac and Ibrahim Spahić. Any other suggestions? Is anyone answering for a word? Can we approach a statement on members of the joint commission? Who's in? I find that 14 were for, which means, a unanimous decision has been made on the members of the joint committee to bring the text of the law into line, and I hope that this commission, during today and tomorrow, will be able to finish the job, so that at tomorrow's regular, next session of the House of Peoples, they can complete the procedure concerning the adoption and adoption of the final text of these laws. 77 I move to the first item of the session's agenda. Ad.1. Starting the process of responsibility for officials and staff in institutions, according to the findings and reports of the Audit Office, is anyone answering for a word? Deputy Minister Jadranko Prlić answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1066	Dear fellow MPs, since my name has been mentioned in this context in several previous sessions and so, allow me a few words to comment on what is said here and the requirements that have been heard both in this home and in the public. First of all, I want to say that I welcome both the formation and start of the audit work, which is a very important institution. I'm pleased with the review report. It showed that, regardless of all the difficulties, the foreign ministry has managed to build and operate at 49 different places in the world and that, if anything, there are gaps, which I consider to be one of the sophisticated achievements in the new BiH. The ministry that had the best IT, best information system in BiH and, to which not all those attributes that are often used can be tied. I think the report shows that no proper communication of the Ministry's audit and professional services has been established. For what? I don't want to comment on that, it's pretty obvious through the correspondence, only when he reads this report now. Any report, say, of the SDK audits and we're all mostly older and we remember these times, would be more unfavourable in conditions, when they were in force very clear and laws and regulations. I believe that the function of this report, as it is said, of the people who helped us with all of this from abroad, is to build a normal system and introduce defined procedures. It's a good thing it starts with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I think the charge is to make audits and all other institutions, so that they can learn common lessons. The materials you received in the context of the rebalancing for this year indicate what progress should be made in all BiH institutions with this in mind. The basic impression of the report, there's nothing spectacular about it. Much less than expected, even according to those responsible for the audit, are transferred for various reasons by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, wants to promote as a place of lawlessness and all possible machinations, which is obviously not the case. So far, no one has asked me anything about this report, except for the late representative Šašivarević who promised to invite me to the session. I first got the report now and these are my comments on all this. It is clear that there are no unrecorded embezzlements in the ministry. When it comes to the mission to New York, I've notified it and the then member of the presidency, Mr. Genjac, knows what it is. In particular, the allegations, which are also in these submissions, which are now divided, are the first precisely consular taxis to diplomatic and consular representations. I've issued several instructions with the Ministry, informed the Bureau, because it was done by ambassadors appointed by the Presidency. What exactly is this about? Due to the lack of funds, part of diplomatic and consular representations, which has revenues from taxis, spent up to the level planned for their needs, and the rest was transferred to the common account, which 78 is a violation in accordance with the Law on Administrative Taxes, which is in the Law on Budget Implementation. I, in some ways, have an understanding of such understanding, although it is too much. By transferring these funds to a joint account, he doesn't get the funds back and comes into a situation to drive him out of his apartment, to get the embassy out of those rooms, he can't pay the basic costs. So no one spent more than what was planned in all of this, but the offense did. I think it's an incorrect report, according to what. There is no roof law on accounting in BiH or in the foreign ministry, as the people in RS react, we use federal accounting laws as well as a continual plan. It's just, for example, this year's guidelines have been published with regard to this. One of these incorrect reports is those dealing with the economy, they may know that depreciation is no longer recorded on the costs of business, rather than reducing government capital. That wasn't the case last year. There is a reliable record of passports and associations in connection with this and this has been shown by these ex post reports, which has also been established by the audit. When it comes to registering accounts in Minhem, that achievement was very important. By opening an account in Munich, we managed to eliminate parallelism in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All those accounts, from which they encouraged and some of the funds that were discussed in the media and elsewhere. Everything is indirect, through the DKP is registered and now the technical process is already at the end and really recorded according to the audit cracks. Remember the 17.5 million title, etc., so it's a purely technical issue. The problem of separation is largely resolved as a very large problem, but the problem of unscheduled workers has been constantly opened and is now 50 in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and those returning from the network, which are not deployed, etc. And, finally, PIO's obligations are related to the previous question. The replacement of one system of Durgim, namely all those people, who did not have solutions with the signatures of ministers and deputy ministers, there are total documentation and requirements for entities, as it is the pension insurance of 1999-2000, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the trezor, when the budget passed to this newly formed ministry. Allow me a few more notes. The foreign ministry, the first ministry to launch as a whole with a national balance, was at the beginning when I came to the ministry, of 41 DKP – 28 was one national. At the beginning of my term, 1.5% were employees of Srbin and 4% of Hrvat. In the end, we came to national equality, in the foreign ministry, we worked at a consensus, which I consider to be a very important achievement and way of working in the new BiH. When it comes to finances themselves, 4 million were less transferred last year than was planned. Let's say Mr. Špirić remembers that. It was transferred by the European Union, not a stamp for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we received almost 200 people from that period, just in order to fully national balance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in accordance with the decisions of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, etc. The lovers were received, based on an information tender, which was called, in accordance with the non-existent labour law. Part of the separation does not exist in this non-existent labour law. I didn't want to be together, and I had in it the support of the Council of Ministers, that 69 people of Bošnjak were thrown out on the street, because they had previously worked at the Ministry and 79 were signed with them today and agreements and breakups, received funds and allocated to other institutions. I don't consider it a violation. So, this request, the shift, etc., you can do it, it's your right, for a number of reasons, but this one that's listed in this document, he really, I don't think is enough. Just give me a few more words. In 2000, it entered with the plan of the foreign ministry 41.5 million marks. We're looking for a rebalan increase in funds. The rebalancing went into last year, exclusively for exchange rate reasons. The dollar-mark course at the beginning of the year was 1.55 at the end of the year 2.13. Most of our DKP is based on a dollar, not a stamp. So our request was, first of all, aimed at sanctioning it. Not only has it not been done, but the rebalance provides for only 35.6 million marks. So the amount of money is down by 6 million. That rebalancing was published in the official messenger, which I was checking out this morning on November 17, 2000. So if we divide it by, to those equal parts, so we're left with one eighth by the end of the year. At that moment, when the rebalancing was granted, more funds had already been spent than was foreseen for that rebalancing. One measure was, quite normal at that moment, that we all retreat and that there was no more functioning. I did not want to be that man, who will close the diplomatic network of BiH. And the worst country maintains its diplomatic network. There's a series of reasons for overruns, which is about 2 million. It didn't even have to show up technically. It can exist from a poor initial state, from a poor ending state and all of these other elements. It can exist from new obligations such as land editing for the embassy of Saudi Arabia. Note, Ausija Arabija provides those embassies in Riyadh and has given us the best building in Washington, right next to the BiH Embassy Sedipparment. I held the budget for over a month last year so it wouldn't be adopted. Only at the pressure of the IMF did I give in, with one request from the Presidency, that this year the funds must be close to 50 million marks, if the ministry is to function properly, is remembered by fellow Genjac, who was then a member of the Presidency. Now we've... been late for 90 days. Gentlemen, you can change the ministers today, both the deputies in foreign affairs, unless you accept the rebalancing of the budget. We've had information on the realisation of the last nine months of O.G., overruns are 8.1 million and there's about 3.5 million marks in this one. Otherwise the rebalancing is projected by 60% or almost 55 million marks, it should be greater than what we predicted at the beginning of the year. The illustrations, therefore, last year, when we increased the number of employees, decreased the budget by 6 million this year, we received information to reduce the number of employees, decreased. There's an increase of 6 million marks. I find it necessary to provide more funds for the foreign ministry if the ministry is to be held. This is some global information. There are, probably, and some details that I can't remember, if everything is clear around that land, the separation and those elements, but these are the things that need to be checked within the Ministry itself. There is a law on the implementation of the Budget, which provides for criminal sanctions. They need to be taken. I don't think this house can be both a prosecutor and a judge and that your conclusions are, after all, acceptable and normal, at least if I can take my own right. You said there should be measures taken within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if there were violations and I think it should remain on that basis. I apologize to you for your time. I think the report has shown that there are no 80 private abuses, any private individuals or groups, from which some personal benefit could be derived, and that is very important for establishing and gaining mutual trust. It is extremely important, precisely, to the foreign ministry, which is the first ministry in BiH, which has been established in such a way that it also has this national balance, consensus and everything else, and I think that should be nurtured in the future. Personally, I think it's a good thing that discipline starts with the biggest user of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it needs to be guided in a constitutional direction, which is what your conclusions, which you made this summer, have indeed done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1067	I thank Mr. Prlić. Is anyone else answering for word?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1068	The speaker, Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1069	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to, unlike Mr Prlić, to hold exactly the initiatives you have received in writing and after which, in the context of the debate on the agenda point, the establishment of the agenda point, is requested, in addition to this case, to discuss other specific elements of responsibility, and is also said from other ministries, which are responsible, following the report of the Audit Office. Of course, the touching concern was Mr Prlić's concern for the Bosniaks, which he did not want to leave on the street, as well as a very significant finding, concerning the functioning of the current government, as well as the previous authorities, and, I would not particularly look back on it, but only because of those issues that appeared in the public opinion, I would say that I belonged to a category of people whom, if he had had had the opportunity to plead on the appointment of Mr Prlić, in the place where he was appointed, would never raise his hand for that appointment, for as many known reasons as you wish, which I would not talk about today. I have decided on this initiative, consistently, by giving responsibility to a member of this high house. At the last session, when we adopted audit reports, it was concluded that all the competent authorities established political and any other liability for those who acted legally, had abuses of position, over-uses and for all those for whom the Office of Audit found that there were elements of illegal activity. Naranvo, it was impressive, I see and I want to talk about it today, how unanimous there was in adopting the text on the responsibility of people who had not yet had a name and a last name. I will remind you, the text you received was adopted at both home and home, this text, except that there is no name, I only filled out the puzzle, where it says, that the agreed minister, I only wrote that it was then, during that period performed by Jadranko Prlić. This is the only difference between the text and what this home has already adopted and the House of Representatives. What are we actually talking about here? We're talking about preparedness or not preparedness, abuse of position, illegal action, corruption, sanctioning the name and last name. The presentation of Jadranka Prlić gives the impression that it is perfectly normal, in this country it is not legal to do business and that even praise should be given for this illegal action, against legal action, instead of criticism. It's a practice I'm trying to break up with 81 of this initiative. I'll remind you gentlemen of the delegates-delegates, however you vote, know that the only difference between what you voted and what you were offered to vote again is that instead of N. or, instead of the function holder, that name and the name of that function holder shall be indicated. And I'd love to have you N. People from the past since '90. Instead of principled characteristics, we start calling general names and names. I do not want to talk here at this gathering about my frustration, that, for example, millions of thefts in this country, literally thefts from the senior SDA official Šećirbegović, have been done within this ministry and that it is now not known where this man is staying. I don't want to talk about the slow processing of the issue of crime from Vienna, but I don't want to agree that everything was normal and that, at least that's how it came out of Mr. Prlić's discussion, it's perfectly normal to continue. Thank you. Are you answering for a hearing? Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1070	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask the chairman not to restrict the possibility of calling for a hearing, as someone may report for debate and after hearing what someone else is saying. If we conclude the list of applicants in advance, then such an option shall be disabled by the MP or MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1071	Dear colleague, I was just asking from the point of view whether it was a replica or a debate so I could conduct a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1072	Okay, we get along. On this subject I was saying something modest and, when she was on the agenda last time and the reports of the Office of Audit, I understood as the repair of an institution, that there was that she began to work as a repair of the situation in certain ministries and powers rather than as stamping and calling people individually. If I remember this home well and the other MPs accepted the foreign ministry's reports at their regular sessions, as we heard here from the ex-minister's presentation of a number of very positive elements, which should be followed, in general, in the construction of the future of this country, was made, at the time he was foreign minister, from national balance and other work done. There is no name on the agenda, as some here have managed to say, and I am generally against the name of one person being singled out and kind of branded and renamed. I'm not getting into it, whether Mr. Tokić has something personal against Mr. Prlić, it's his personal matter. But I don't want to, I'll never support it, this way. If there are any personal conflicts, then let the gentlemen who do this job sort it out, get them to meet and talk outside this room. I believe, if there is a statement, that the Croatian Representatives' Club will not accept such an initiative to launch Mr Prlić's responsibility for working in the ministry. Thank you very much. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1073	Thank you. Mr. Halid Genjac picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1074	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have received the initiative of the bearer of a very significant function, within the current government. The bearer of a very significant function within the current government suggests that we draw a conclusion, which will oblige the chairman of the Council of Ministers to take some steps. Incidentally, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is also a high carrier of functions in the current government and at the same time the president of the party from which the initiative is being submitted. This is an explanation that this is a rare example that initiatives by authorities are submitted to the House of Peoples in terms of the resolution of officials. So, this current government, which is a participant and a participant and a carrier, and the applicant of Mr. Tokić's initiative, a group of parties, which make up, has a majority in both the House of People and the House of Representatives. It is common practice to resolve this within the ruling parties and to vote the proposal, which is justified in both homes. I've been restrained since this proposal, because I think this whole setup is foggy. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure know the initiative to vote against the Council of Ministers. Three MPs are enough to sign and launch this initiative. In addition, the House of Representatives confirms the appointment of the Council of Ministers. It would be logical for the House of Representatives to resolve the Council of Ministers. However, this issue can be resolved in business on the House of Peoples, but I felt that because of these circumstances I should not participate in it as a delegate and today I will not participate in the plea, and the way out of this is only possible in two ways. One way is for the ruling parties, to whom the chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr. Tokić, to accept Mr. Tokić's argument and to vote not to trust. That's one solution. Another solution, if these parties do not accept what is ruling, so if the parties, in Tokic's opinion, continue to tolerate crime and all that he has confirmed and stated once again, the only solution is that Mr Tokić resigns, because I do not understand that someone can be a voluntary and voluntary participant of the hostage of power. Therefore, the way out of this situation exists in two ways, and in the vote I will leave it... a party that has a majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1075	Thank you. A colleague named Špirić came forward for the word, and then Mr....
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1076	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished fellow delegates, esteemed guests, members of the Council of Ministers. I think that, on the collegiation of the proposal, I would not like to open a new debate, but I also said last time that the formulating of the agenda point is entitled: Running the process of accountability of officials and employees in BiH institutions, according to the findings and reports of the Office of Audit, a skilled replacement of thesis, because we have here an explicit proposal of conclusion and we have a broadly formed diapazon of some invisible responsibilities. I do not see today the story of other representatives and employees, who have dealt with illicit actions according to the report of the Audit Office which we should talk about today and draw conclusions, but, it seems to me, 83 is a mutual agreement for the agenda point to be adopted. I warned myself then that maybe it wasn't the smartest or the wrong way, but I'm going to talk about the formal shortcomings of this conclusion. It seems to me that here should be the proposal for a conclusion and the signature should be Mr. Sejfudin Tokić as a delegate. Here we have a defined conclusion and the signature of the chairman of the House of People, which could be misused in various media interpretations which is not good. So this should be a proposal for a conclusion and, after the debate, which will be held at the House, it can stand for the signing of the House of Speakers. It's these formal things, and I don't think they were done on purpose, but I think we need to correct them. I also agree that the Representative Council should, perhaps, play a more serious role against the Council of Ministers, whom they appoint and jointly resolve both at home, and it seems to me that a member of 108 who is invited and members of 109 and 110 are on the trail of what Mr Genjac was saying, that it is not an individual possibility for any minister and deputy, but a general attitude against the Council of Ministers. I have tested the will of this home, when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, I have not received support, because it seems that by party membership it is possible to assess whoever has a stronger party in BiH, it works well, whoever has a small or no party, it is prone to crime, corruption, etc. I am prepared to claim that the intensity of crime, unfortunately in BiH, is both intrinsic and party power, because that is because defending people who deal with crime is stronger. We've come gentlemen to the situation, that it's impossible to determine any kind of responsibility. You in the Council of Ministers have ministers who are party representatives. In parliaments, you have representatives, I would say, representatives of the state government or parliamentarians, who are more likely to vote on not trusting their party president, which has not been seen or seen in parliamentary practice so far, because the government is concentrated, unfortunately in BiH, not in Parliament, but even in this legislative one, but in the executive government, we are coming into a paradoxical situation and I am afraid that we will not come out of this situation with a clear message from citizens, who expect crime and everything that looks like crime and corruption to be sanctioned. I, too, want to say that, by coming to the Alliance's representative to change power, he wants to create an impression of the failure of the previous concept. Which, too, is not good. The Alliance for Change has taken over power and should be held in the interest of citizens, people and entities in BiH. I have the impression that there is a single dose of absolute inefficiencies. I am convinced that if an audit were to be carried out at this time, therefore, at this moment before the budget vote, that Mr. Prlić should receive a high reward. We'll be very soon in a situation where these words of mine, which are not so mild, are either confirmed or denied. So, I think the find of the Audit Office, and I supported that report, I think it's good. What is very important is that for the holders of the then government representatives in the ministries, bribes, corruption, crime for a personal name cannot be tied. I would like to see all of us in that position at that time, when embryos of the ministry were created, or ministries, when there was not enough legal regulations and corridors for ministers and their deputies, so that someone in that situation would behave. Today we have all this, so we have certain wanderings, even if there is not enough legal regulation today, which points to it, which is why my position will be, because I think this point is defined, because the audit office reports are definitely and done, and that this conclusion refers to a well-formed agenda point, maybe my position would be different. I, of course, will have a reserved position on this proposal without the need for the anger of my colleague from the College, Mr. Tokić, because I don't think this is well prepared, I don't think this is well 84 prepared, I don't even think it's well addressed, given everything that's been going on in BiH. I think that this kind of responsibility towards Mr Prlić, I think that everyone should take part in the responsibility for what they do publicly, well mitigates everything that has burdened the public of BiH which is reluctant to determine responsibility, but is happy to have a political story and it is not good for the future of BiH. So, after the express stance of the president of the Croatian People's Club of Delegates that they will not support this initiative, my position will be best reserved for this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1077	I thank my esteemed colleague Špirić, Ivo Divković, for his words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1078	The esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I will first remind you of the conclusion that we made at the last session, and regarding the audit reports proposed by the commission, and adopted by this House. When it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it says. The Commission finds that by retaining and using revenues, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has largely violated the provisions of the Budget Act and the Law on Administrative Taxes, the Commission finds the mandatory Foreign Ministry to initiate the process of determining responsibility for all holders of these non-legislities. For all the carriers of these illegalities, I stress that, that was why we suggested that this initiative bear the name of the one we have today. This is the launch of the funkconer and employees process in BiH institutions, etc. It's just that what we're talking about at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs right now is just about him and if we could talk about other ministries, whose audit has been carried out, and we'll probably be able to talk about the ministries where, right now, the audit is under way, and now they're working alongside the former ministers and other people. There is Mr. Mišić and Jerkic and Đikić, etc. which were part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs responsible employees, during the period for which the audit was carried out. That is why we have asked and are now also proposing to update the Council of Ministers' activity, at the conclusion of the House of Peoples, from the previous session, on the launch of the responsibilities of all employees. That is why we speak to all employees, not including Mr Prlić, including Mr Prlić as the first man of the ministry, but also all others in this and other ministries. Now that's an explanation, I'd say some of our initiatives, and we'll vote for this conclusion, I hope, so, when it comes to all the employees who have certain responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1079	I thank you, I would only ask my distinguished colleague Divković, that if he can formulate on paper because of the record, that very conclusion, that we can also declare this conclusion when we declare it. A dear colleague, Novaković, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1080	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests and members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to join those who have already pointed out that we have reached 85 conclusions, and we know what, when we discussed the review report. Something else intrigues and interests me here. I expected, based on that conclusion, the competent institutions to initiate the procedure. Now I want to know if Mr. Tokić's initiative means they won't do it, so some new additional initiative is needed, or some additional conclusion. It would have made sense to have someone else interested in this report besides us and those to whom it applies and logically it would have been that we no longer need to discuss it at home and give further arguments to the competent institutions, which should have already worked to determine responsibility. Of course, determining responsibility involves all forms of responsibility and some of them, and cannot determine. This degree of political responsibility, which we should establish here, can only be the result of some of the work that has already been done before, that is, by some other institutions. In that case and afterwards, we can discuss political responsibility and I am ready when it is over to discuss each and every political responsibility from the current and previous set of authorities. That's why I came out to say that I think I'm wrong, that Mr. Tokić is trying to do something that others need and won't do. And if that's the case, then I support this initiative and consider it a quality addition to what we did. I suppose Mr. Divković's conclusion, as he announced, will in fact be to strengthen the conclusions that we have already had. I don't know if it'll satisfy the proponent of this initiative, but it's certainly one thing, that the competent institutions haven't done their job and that it looks like Mr. Tokić has to push them a little bit. It seems to me that he should do so in some other ways, not just here at the House, but also within, of course, an institution where his party is taking a very important place, if not the most significant place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1081	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word was Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1082	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly refer to this item of the agenda, by saying what my predecessors said, that it is a good thing that we opened up the debate on these issues. However, I would remind all of us, together, of several very important facts, and I will say this for the public, since we have received materials, which we could read and the public was not at this opportunity to hear them all the way. We here have the findings and recommendations of the competent authorities, which have carried out this audit and on this basis, we can conclude that the audit found that there is no satisfactory internal control system, which includes reporting, monitoring and timely detection of possible irregularities in relation to the financial documentation, which remains in the DKP, and that it has not established a procedure for monthly comparison of the revenue achieved and achieved, that the Ministry does not possess an orderly record of travel documents, so that the audit was unable to determine the total number of travel documents in charge, according to individual representations etc. It is further said that the audit, also found that the employees of the DKP network were not paid contributions to pension and disability insurance for 1999 and 2000, which are estimated to be over a million and a half thousand marks. Furthermore, this report shows that the ministry did not legally retain taxis, use of lease revenues, and did not comply with the deadlines for submitting reports and breaking internal rules on several occasions in violation of the legal provisions. These are the facts found in this report and certain recommendations of reviewing what should be done further. Also, I am aware of the 86 fact that much of what Mr Prlić said has been arranged and that today we have the opportunity to control something after all these years, that we have a lower order and that after this discussion can only go towards improvement. However, I think that Parliament is not the one who needs to make political decisions, I think that every ministry is subject to debate and everything that needs to be controlled by Parliament, but I am not in favour of making any decisions that would prejudge the things that need to be taken by the other of the authorities. For that reason, I think the conclusion should go in the direction that the competent authorities, who are in charge, should be able to show themselves on this issue, and we can draw a conclusion that I think we can agree here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1083	I thank Mr Rodić. A colleague of the Turjačanin called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1084	The Honorable Presidency, fellow delegates, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, I will only say why I will be abstained by point 1 below today's session of the House of Nations, and I will explain this in the following way. First, we came up with a change in the text content of this point, without asking whether this home agrees with the change in the content of the session, because in the last session we have a completely different text in the title of this agenda at today's session we have a different content. Another important moment, which I would like to say, I assume that Mr. Tokić's initiative as a delegate, and I support this proposal, which Mr. Špirić said, because the initiative that has its foothold on the time threshold, which we are on, is before BiH's reception in the Council of Europe and where, namely, BiH's obligation, is to work, that is, to increase its efforts to combat corruption within the judiciary, the prosecution, the police and the administration. However, a discussion that is going on today, unfortunately, apart from what Mr Špirić said that, apart from having these quasi-legislative ones, where obviously legislative activity happens beyond the institutions of this high institution, we enter into one, not to say apostropheticly, still not solved situations and in quasi-judicial activity, which does not belong to us as the House. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1085	Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1086	Mr. Chairman, members of the College of the Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the international community, media representatives and, of course, representatives of the BiH Secretariat, who are patiently working with us to find the best conditions for fulfilling the function of the House of Peoples of BiH, I mention you for that, which I think is good for you to concentrate on working in the House of Peoples, reduce the experience, when it comes to your other kind of activity, which you have done outside of this high house in his name. I'd like to, and I'm going to talk 87 about it on current issues or delegate issues. I'd like to draw attention to this report on three facts. First, we have asked in truth that, in relation to the report of the Revised Commission, the auditors, we set out at this session in relation to how much more appropriate you are, the whole of the information that came from the ministries whose audit was completed by that moment. Secondly, we are at today's session, at least I can see that we have received a report from the House of People, namely a joint report by the Commission at home for financial and administrative affairs, signed by Mr Jerko Ivanković and we have a signature next to him by dr. Ljubomir Kovačević, chairman of the Commission for Budget and Finance, is representing the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're like a legislative body obliged, first of all to establish some order of things inside your house. If we have an evaluation and an analysis of things, the conditions that are presented to the House of Peoples, one commission that is responsible for a particular activity, and if we accept a statement, or if you want the Commission's proposals or reports on the work of the Commission, then the House of Nations, when it adopts a single statement, a report, how the Commission's proposals, should be left to, if it accepts that document, to leave, to behave further, in accordance with these conclusions. There is no, as I said, a defined conclusion regarding this question of what's on the agenda. There is a working body's position, called the Commission for Finance and the Budget of one and the other home, in relation to the audit carried out at the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, these are facts that should not be bypassed by these facts. We have had these reports and I am drawing attention that we do not need a general debate on these documents, but in accordance with the agenda we have the opinions of the Commission of the House of Peoples, and in any case very useful and the opinions of the Committee of the Parliamentary House of BiH. So, for me, regarding the Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH People's House and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, our responsibility, as the House, is, by accepting these conclusions and opinions and suggestions and suggestions, that the matter from the point of view of the legislative body and the legislative level is being concluded when it comes to the concreteisation of these views and are very concrete these conclusions, they go to a tax point on the point of view. I wouldn't want to kill you in the idea of reading all those conclusions, but that's the way it is. So that's how it is, and we, if we accept it, then we have to say that we have the attitudes of this home, which are not one position, how it's constantly being processed here, which was adopted once, so now it's trying to be concrete on either one occasion or on several occasions, that's what fellow delegates have been talking about. So we have to have some assumptions to work with. Those assumptions for work are with me reports of these commissions. So that's the first thing. The other thing is, an instance, which, based on the conclusions of the legislative authorities, should be acted upon. These are, above all, those authorities, those ministries and the Council of Ministers, to which this applies. Secondly, these are the powers under the BiH Constitution, in the case of these three ministries, the constitutional jurisdiction of BiH, defined within the BiH presidency, which has the responsibility of a special one, when it comes to the foreign ministry, of course also in relation to the budget, because it adopts and proposes a budget. It has to do with all three of these ministries, which 88 of which we are talking about are the Bureau's jurisdiction. I am talking, therefore, about the two bodies of the ministries and the Council of Ministers, as one organisation and the BiH Presidency, which also recommended the adoption of the fight against corruption, created conditions for anti-corruption teams. At every step, we have the opportunity to listen to the members of the Presidency, as the most agile advocates of the fight for justice and justice in this country, and they should be determined according to what is happening in the country, based on the stakes of the legislative body, which obliges them, in the least as a body that has a position in relation to certain activities, carried out by certain ministries, i.e. the Council of Ministers and other bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is the second level of decision-making. Of course, and regardless of which, since the judicial and legislative authority, executive by theory in our parliamentary democracy is segregated, the authorities responsible for judicial action and the prosecution, etc., no matter at which level, however we are not organised, should do their job autonomously and in line with the findings resulting from this. So, when this context has, that we have very precise positions of our commissions or our commission not to mix this commission of the House of Representatives, then our home should at least affirm in public the positions that have taken up our bodies' work, not to talk about how well they say it all the time as rain around Kragujevac. There are tax-listed opinions and views of the commission that are not disputed. This is where they interpret themselves. I don't think there's any need for that, we've accepted them, because it's the working body of each other, which is responsible for the work of this home. Now I'd like to say something about the discussion we've heard. First of all, we are not in a position here in the House of Peoples to ask, for example. The Hrvat club, the Bosniak Club or the Serbian Club, and we can do so according to our rules of procedure to take views on corruption in relation to specific cases and on general cases, as they would say so. The national anti-corruption issue, or it would signal to people that each of their own on a national basis should protect or, let's say, affirm, when it comes to this context of the problem, which is not, orangely recommended and no one will go into it, I hope. Secondly, it's not right, it's also to bring down a reduction to the party's question, because this is not a party activity special, it can be in statements, it can be in the party's political programme, it can be in debates etc., but it can't be a party issue, because if it turns out to be a party issue, it would hurt to push, e.g. One of the parties to which one of these people is concerned, to which she should plead, like she would finely sanction it inside, so that, like here, they would accept it as a final fact. The same case applies to the Alliance or the opposition. The problem is not being reduced to the Alliance's political level, which is ruling or to the opposition's political problem. The opposition has the right to chat, to chase and to trample wherever it can, it's a parliamentary task, it's nothing to slow down, but it can't be put on a block, because they've all committed themselves to this one programme, which is a social problem, and in which it's obvious that everyone finds their own interest to express their positive political orientation. Therefore, it cannot be reduced solely to the problem of the ruling structure or to say that the Alliance should end or it should be reduced to one party in the Alliance, to the procedures etc. And I think it's not the defence of the opposition or the Alliance, but the question is, of course, the position against this problem we're talking about. 89 The third and important moment is whether, in fact, now, establishing these obligations, based on the findings of our committees and on the findings of the auditors, we want to establish one order of things between the institutions. It is normal for the legislative authority to question the executive and it is normal for the legislative authority to expect its reaction. If it is not available, the legislative authority must have one other instrument. It is a public change, therefore, of a kind of transparency, is it, in relation to the problem and then the public change begins to function according to its logic. It cannot be controlled by either the court or the legislative and executive authority, it would not be good to be controlled. Of course, there should be no prejudge, but it should be borne in mind that it is also part of the so-called. a democratic environment in which BiH lives or any other democracy parliamentary. And in the end, we recognized two things. First, that the takeover, no matter what or how they see it, but the responsibilities of, say, the current ministers or the current Council of Ministers' authorities, enter the former ministers and earlier powers and tomorrow the same transition of authorities after the elections or staying or changing it will be said to voters, must also be something that is transparent. We don't have a missing report here. Have the ministries and ministers and the Council of Ministers, taking responsibility for certain positions, taken over the entire luggage, which they took from the previous government or recorded that fact and kept it silent. So that's what politics is called, you know, when you have a handover, if you found it in the cabinet that you left or that you're entering someone who's going to tell you, listen, this is the balance of my work and I'm handing it over to you, you go ahead and you sign it and then you say formally that, the government is democratically transferred to a new structure. Whether there is transparency between foreign trade, economic relations, civil affairs and foreign affairs in this case or not. We don't have that kind of information. Of course, there could be a lot of things to say about this, and here it's interesting that we have two options today. I would not say that there is no alternative other than to be spinning around in a circle, it is impossible, first of all, after the information we received from the auditors, our commissions, the statements that we received from colleagues who participate in parliamentary life, at the level of the legislative authority, we are in a situation, that as a legislative body we can now, in addition to these concrete conclusions, also conclude the following, from this is seen. We do not have a House of People, therefore according to the legislative authority of the appropriate answers, institutions that are responsible for further processing of this case. None. Neither negative nor positive nor indirect nor direct nor normal that the legislative authority, which has considered a problem, must conclude something. She can't run from conclusions, she can't tell the ministers we don't have to do it anymore and that's quite clear. She can, as someone would say, strengthen, I think Mr Rodić said either someone else or Mr Novaković to strengthen the conclusion by proposing 90 Mr Divković, who we already had formulated in one or two sentences. She can also say that everything our commission president and the Financial Affairs Commission have done, material business, budget, will be made known as the conclusion of our home and on this basis will be done, because there are suggestions, suggestions and orders that this commission has given. We're not talking about them. Why aren't we talking? Because I'm convinced that we have no communication, I've talked about it between the legislative authority and the executive authority. There is no formal letter, if any, I would like to see it, from the College, anyone who is chairing, I think, from the College, so don't get me wrong, whether the chairman of Šimić, Špirić or Tokić, therefore, from the Kolegijum on behalf of the House, in which we can say that we are 15.9 or someone else, asked the Council of Ministers to give us clear answers for the conclusions we adopted, including the views of the Finance and Business Commission, up to a certain time in 15 or 30 days. If such a letter exists, I have not seen it as a delegate and I would like to ask the College if you can get an answer. Whether there is a formal requirement that contains the conclusions that our commission has made with the request of the Council of Ministers, the request of the Presidency, the ministries to respond within a certain time limit to the requirements of the legislative body which are precisely related to all three ministries and which are something like that. Is there a relationship between us and the executive? If there is, I'd like you to inform us. If there is this request, which has been made in writing to the Council of Ministers, I think we are today at the opportunity to see whether we will strengthen the conclusion or not. If there is no such request, formally legal, today we have only received a statement from Mr Prlić, who addressed the dom, bearing in mind that his name is indeed mentioned as being concentrated in the public and in the statement and in the invitation of Mr Tokić to personalize the responsibility. In that sense, I would like to recommend that we get an answer to that question. Since we do not have a chairman of the Bošnjak klub, I would like to clarify, since there are several proposals, how we will conclude this debate and come to some views, which are quite concrete and if you will be adpersonal and when it comes to the whole of this action, I would ask the College to agree with some proposal, I think that it can find this solution, with a proposal for a conclusion from today's debate and discussion in which almost everyone participated or, in order to say, a common informal contact, which would allow the conditions for us to come to the best and most productive position in relation to the initiative launched at the last session to discuss the whole, including the specific issue that Tokić spoke of, without any problems, but I would like the College to come up with this proposal, not to delay the statement of ten different proposals, but I think that our work has been carefully examined by our committee. All he could record were the facts and record the proposals and suggestions of the legislative authority and I would like, in public these proposals, those conclusions, which this commission gave, together with the other commission, to be transparently present, as well as initiatives to which it is concerned. So I ask that the College make an effort, that 91 answer the first question. Is there such correspondence between the legislative and enforcement authorities and if there is and if there is no answer to what the problem is? If it is not there, to create this as a condition of a normal functioning between institutions and thirds to find the way out to finish this debate on this agenda point one or more conclusions. And otherwise, I am not undermining any of the facts about any statement that has been made, because that would be impossible and the opposite of the nature of this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1087	I thank Mr Spahić. Before I give my colleague Špirić's word for the debate, I would only explain the Office Report adopted as a document of this House, or Parliamentary Assembly, an official document as well as a law that comes out of the official list so that there is no reason to particularly inform the institutions, because it would be like informing the Council of Ministers that we have passed the law and that it should act in accordance with that law. In this context, I would ask that we consider this as the highest legislative institution of government in this country. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1088	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to have a brief discussion of Mr Ibrahim Spahić. You see, Mr Spahić is right when he says whether the commission is on the basis of the report. The position of parliaments and conclusions anyone finds fit by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to react? It's not. And what is the task of Parliament? To raise the issue of responsibility for these bodies, if we want to deal with the arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's space. So that's our job. Here's what I'm offering today. So, the task is that the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers has done nothing on the basis of a parliamentary debate and the conclusion of both parliamentary committees. How come it's just Jadranko Prlić? And now I have to tell you that the Council of Ministers, the ministers are now party presidents. When I start that initiative, she doesn't stand a chance. It is doomed because MPs, delegates, party members will not vote for the removal of their party presidents. So that model can't go through. Another thing that, of course, we need to speak openly and honestly. Ask today a question - that by any chance Jadranko Prlić is a member of the SDP, the PDP, the New Croatian Initiative, I don't know which party makes up the majority, would we even be discussing this? To set that up, we must speak openly, collegiately in this House, if we are to come to a solution. I don't think so. But today we have a way out of this situation again. We do, so we don't spread the story. We have a proposal on the agenda, which is the conclusion of Mr. Sejfudin Tokić's chairmanial delegate. That's what we have to say for or against. You can't bring 5-6 new ones to this conclusion, that's not the point of the agenda. So I'm asking you to stick to what's on the agenda. We have an initiative and a proposal for a conclusion and we have to make that clear. Whether the conclusion and initiative will pass or not will be seen after the plea, but it is impossible for all of us to define one conclusion at a time to plead. It's not a subject, part of the agenda. We need to formulate the agenda point differently. I ask you yes, my suggestion is to bring this debate to an end to the principle that we make a statement on the conclusion. Thank you very much. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1089	I'm thanking you. I just had some explanations. Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1090	The Croats' club is looking for a break before the plea. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1091	You're gonna let me give just some explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1092	The word has been given by Mr. Chairman Sejfudin Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1093	I'm really sorry. I thought I'd answer the question as part of that discussion. Meanwhile, a few questions came up. One question – why names? I don't think that an illegal act can really be fought differently than a name and a last name. The second question is, why only Jadranko Prilić? Of the three audit reports that we had here from the three ministries, the only people who were responsible for the work of their ministries are within the election party at the Council of Ministers Jadranko Prlić. So this is about political responsibility, and it is known that there is a responsibility to the Parliamentary Assembly, towards the House of Peoples. So the only person who falls under the political responsibility of this home from these three reports is Jadranko Prlić. So that's the only reason. Do I have something personal, I have nothing, Mr. Živković, do you have anything with Jadranka Prilić? If it were to be resolved within the party, I really appreciate the practice someone has, but would not promote that the issues of illegal action are resolved within the party and not brought to Parliament. On the contrary, I think we should promote. I know I've violated several clichés that have been common in practice so far. I must tell you that I have consciously done it and all of you who have spoken or not spoken, and you will avoid a plea or you will not plead for any of your reasons that you have stated, I will not be angry with you. I have to tell you that the most frequent conversations with me are done in that style, it would be good if there were no statements. Therefore, I will ask within this item of the agenda that this conclusion of the House is made clear and I will not consider it tragic at all, and if it gets and if it does not get most or especially important if it does. In this context, he would answer that we should develop such relationships that there is something that is not black white compared to the discussion of a distinguished gentleman. The agenda point allows other conclusions, so that's my answer. This is one of the conclusions proposed so far. The Croatian People's Delegations Club has suggested a new conclusion and, of course, we will resolve everything in the framework of the Rules of Procedure. My intention was just to try and clarify this position. Thank you. 93 If there is no possible replica of this my exposure to breaks, as long as it will be enough, by 1/2 hours you can, 15 minutes break. Fellow delegates, a break requested by the Club of Envoys of the Croatian People, has passed. Does the president of the club want to talk? Mr. Divković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1095	I just want to report to the House that we used it to consult each other. We have no proposals or new initiatives, but we will come forward with the proposed initiatives on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1096	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1097	Me, we've had in that pause as far as I can see time for a debate. I would like to suggest a conclusion from the agenda we adopted today. The conclusion would be this – the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of a debate held today and that date on the launch of the process of responsibility of officials and employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the findings adopted by the review, the review committee, so as literally the agenda, requires competent ministries from the relevant ministries of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to comply with these responsibilities to act on the basis of the findings of the Revised Commission and that is the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1098	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1099	Within 30 days to inform us about this conclusion in this sense not to be an etener... within 30 days to be briefed by the Presidency, by the competent ministries and by the Council of Ministers on their conclusions, by decisions that we might consequently conclude this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1100	Thank you. We have two conclusions. We've exhausted the debate, I guess. First conclusion. The conclusions are quite similar, the only thing that was first constructed in one name, the other is related to updating responsibility. There's no need for me to read. You all have letters. He would ask the Secretary of the House to deliver this text to the media, such as the agreement that the media have access to all materials related to the agenda. 94 Could be a business intervention. We've entered the plea phase, Mr. Novaković. If you have an intervention. There are two conclusions. Please, Mr Spahić is a definitive conclusion, a definition of a deadline to which the conclusion applies. The statement will determine whether this is already said or updated, etc. The first proposal for a conclusion is a proposal for the conclusion of the envoy, delegate Sejfudin Tokić, which obliges the Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure for the removal of Jadrank Prlić, deputy foreign trade minister and economic relations with the explanation taken from the findings of the audit and the adopted report in this House. Who is to this conclusion to raise your hand please? One for who's against? Two, three forgive me. Who's restrained? One for, three against and ten abstentions I konstatuj that this conclusion does not get the required majority. We move on to the second draft conclusion. You heard the text of the conclusion in the stenogram, that is, the envoy Ibrahim Spahić told the speaker. Who would please raise your hand to this conclusion? One who's against this conclusion? One who's restrained? I didn't approach the plea of consideration. I'm asking for a stenogram. One for, one against, 11 abstentions. This concludes with the general abstention of this agenda point. I thank the envoys, the delegates for their participation in the debate. Moving to the next item of the Ad2. The law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina is proposed by the Council of Ministers, a proposal. You have previously received amendments to the three delegates of the House of Nations in accordance with Article 89.3. Does anyone want to take part in the debate? I would only remind you that this law with amendments proposed by three envoys, delegates, or members of the College adopted by those amendments in the House of Representatives and that these are actually amendments that are in line with the Council of Ministers' proposal. Is anyone answering for a hearing? No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Novaković is reporting for a hearing. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1101	95 I just want to warn you that the procedure of business has been violated. As far as I am aware, the Commission did not have this amendment, the committee in charge did not have this amendment and did not take note of these amendments so that I have here in the case of a report from the Commission signed by the chairman Dr. Dragutin Ilić, who suggested that the House adopt a law without amendments. Therefore, the Komsija has not considered amendments and it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, with full respect for the fact that amendments have been agreed between the three proposings, meaning between the three proposings and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1102	Thank you. I think we discussed this topic when we set the agenda and that it stands in your agenda. Amendments shall be made on the basis of Article 89.3. The Rules of Procedure which, among other things, says – After the debate is launched, the President will, in consultations with the Vice-Presidents, take into account new amendments in cases where they concern new aspects which the Commission could not take into account at the time when it seeks to bring two or more proposals on which the debate is being held, etc. so that the College has applied its Rules of Procedure which I have informed you of when setting the agenda at the beginning of this session so that this procedure is implemented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there are no objections to the business procedure in the amendments, I'm opening the debate. One of the amendment's promoters, Nikola Špirić, is reporting for word. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1103	Ladies and gentlemen, through this debate, I want to point out something that may not be good for the legislative area in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Almost every point of the law takes the most of our time to discuss. It is not good when important legal projects that have long been in the process are passed without talking about the law, the law's purpose and the amendments. I would like to say that the Free Zones Act has long stood in parliamentary procedure and these amendments that are before you show that it has not stood for no reason long in parliamentary procedure. This is about fundamental amendments, and I want to make it clear that these amendments have helped organisations, international organisations dealing with this problem, such as Kafao and the IMF. Here, in essence, these amendments give rise to the last possibility of free zones being money launderers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It seems that this is the most interesting activity in unregulated countries and countries in transition, and in this sense you have seen that the amendment and that production activities are considered production of which products have passed, a certain process of processing or processing in the free zone. Therefore, goods cannot be repacked in the free zone and considered as their own production, which is a fundamental improvement in the legal text proposal and has also been agreed by the Council of Ministers with this proposal. amandman ii, which states in Article 13(1), in the third row behind the word exporting words export words or re-exports. This is the part of the necessary production within the customs zone in order to be able to operate. In such a way, amandman III – Article 31 paragraph l - also changes - the Council of 96 ministers, on a proposal from the Ministry, will make a decision on the termination of work in the free zone if it is established that the value of goods leaving the free zone from the customs territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina for exportation over 12 months falls below 75% of the total value of the product goods established in the manner provided for in Articles 24 to 32. Customs Policy Act. The customs administration is obliged to notify the ministry. I want to say that these are three essential amendments that change the content of the law to a good extent and I am here to say I am pleased that we have been able to agree these amendments so that they become an integral part of the text of the bill. Without these amendments, what is not good could happen within free customs zones, which is not desirable for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it is a fundamental quality improvement in the legislative project, and I will support the bill in addition to these amendments. I was one of those who, in the last term, fought to see the light of day, saw the first draft law on free zones, because it looked more like money laundering in Bosnia and Herzegovina than what are free zones in modern European countries. This is a fundamental improvement, and that is why I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1104	I thank you for the explanation of one of the three proposings of these three amendments. Is there anyone else reporting for the amendment debate? Unless we can access the plea. Who is for the amendment I to the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina, please vote? I agree that Amendment I of the Proposer Špirić, Šimić, Tokić, was unanimously adopted. Amendment II to the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? I find that Amendment II of the same proposings has been adopted unanimously. Amendment III to the predlagač Šimić, Špirić, Tokić to the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who is in favour? I also find that this amendment has been unanimously adopted, and that the conditions for us to join the declaration for the full draft law with naturally incorporated amendments have been approved. Who's in? I find that a unanimous adoption of the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina has exhausted the second item of the 10th session's agenda. Ad. 3. Questions and Answers Since we have asked the Council of Ministers to be present in a more representative composition for the start of tomorrow's session and to ensure that oral response is possible in accordance with the business provisions from 117 to 122, without of course asking questions now, I am opening the third item of the agenda. 97 Dear Mr. Džaferović answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1105	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have actually prepared a question for today to address the Council of Ministers and I will not read it now because tomorrow is really scheduled when the Council of Ministers is present to ask the Council of Ministers the question. However, I went out for this pay phone to ask one other question. In fact, I ask myself how many times does this speaker have to be asked the same question in order to be answered by the House College? I have so far asked a question twice about the travels of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly and MPs abroad. I asked to be informed in writing who is where and when he traveled abroad? On whose orders? How much did that cost? What benefit did Bosnia and Herzegovina benefit from all this? So this is the third time that I repeat my question. So far two times have not produced results and I want the public to know that I have not received the answer to that question. Why, let the College answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1106	I'd just like to clarify a few things about the question. Envoying questions are being asked to the Council of Ministers. Of course, not wanting to close the possibility of asking each other, but asking all the envoys, all the delegates to have in mind, to have full insight into all the documents in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that all the secretaries from the House to the Accounting are available to the secretaries of the commission, so there is no such material here at this time. At the same time, due to a public called by distinguished counterpart Džaferović, he would say that all information in line with freedom of access to information is available to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all media representatives. He would call on the envoys, delegates to inform us whether the competent services were preventing this information from coming in and, in that context, the College could intervene within its jurisdiction. For further questions, he answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1107	I am well aware that there are therefore records in this House and I know where I can gain insight into certain data. So I don't know that thing, but Mr. Tokić, I'm not an investigative judge, I'm not even a cop, I'm a delegate in the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if I ask for this speaker to be delivered to me by certain data, you're like the person at the head of that home to ensure that I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1108	98 I thank my colleague, I have just asked the service to give you all the information and I believe that the service will provide it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1110	And in case one of the officers prevents you from getting valuable information, I ask you again to keep me informed and then I will respond to the services. The question was further answered by Mr Rodić, Mr Spahić and Mr Novaković. I would ask you to try to regulate the questions under provisions that I did not want to read, but I call you 117 to 122.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1111	Ladies and gentlemen, I've already asked this question, and I'm going to ask it today even though there is no Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, I'm going to ask it tomorrow. In fact, we adopted the Social Security Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia at the meeting on 23.5.2001. This agreement, or contract, is published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official Messenger, but my question – what is the fate of this contract, since it is not yet in force, and I must tell you that it regulates the areas of pension and health insurance and our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will this contract begin to apply? Have ratification notes been exchanged and when will it be? I'm delivering it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1112	I thank my esteemed colleague Rodić. Whether any of the members of the Council of Ministers have the opportunity to answer now or will, I would ask that they try tomorrow either or orally or in writing to provide an answer to this question. Mr. Dear fellow Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like a brief question, so first Mr. Mikerević, Minister for European Integration. Will we be able to have his presence tomorrow, on behalf of that ministry, to hear the information? If we didn't get ahead of the Bucharest Conference, could we get ahead of this session of the second working table in Sarajevo, in connection with economic co-operation in the region and the Stability Pact? 99 So I've repeatedly asked that question, we didn't get an answer here. It was a part of the agenda, like 25. - 30, and it's been going on for several months from June to today. We, just in a few, are running out of mandate in a few weeks, as co-chairman in the area. I would pray that we take the opportunity to hear at least in writing the information that exists, as far as I know. Secondly, I would like to ask Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister, about the free trade agreement, etc. with the Republic of Macedonia. So, I'm interested in what the situation is about this contract and what the problems are and why we don't have such a contract with Macedonia, as we have with Croatia and other countries, etc.? So I'd like to get the right answer. The third question is, addressed to the Minister for the Treasury, our gentleman, who should answer the question, regarding the whole debate and inform Parliament about the question of the succession of the former SFRY, to see what the situation is, to give Parliament official information, since we are mostly reading it from the papers and to see each other through the coordination bodies, direct the funds set out in that section. I think Parliament is obliged to have that information, given the statements we had earlier on regarding this issue. As far as I can track, that would be, as far as these ministers are concerned. Now I'd like to ask you a question, as far as our position as the House of Peoples is concerned. The House of Peoples, adopted the Law on National Minorities, and I would like the College and the Chairman to address the House of Representatives, to ask them for a statement on this law, because in the meantime the Bill of Refugees and Displaced Persons and Human Rights has appeared, then the HDZ Law to the House of Representatives, it is correct that we have a reply to the House of Representatives' content. Is that why or isn't it?? It's about our conclusion. Our second activity, which is related to the legislative activity of the House of People, concerns the elections, as announced on October 5th. As far as I know, the House of Peoples didn't discuss the election. Also, the House of Peoples has not been officially informed of the election commission, which was composed by Mr. Petrič and the House of Peoples did not make a decision with the House of Representatives together, that the elections would be on 5 October. We read that, too, in the paper. I think it's untasteful, as Mr Špirić would say, that on our behalf they decide on both the date and the character, etc. And I think it would be okay to be informed about these things and be at the level of that task, no matter what the House of Representatives is, I don't know if the House of Peoples missed the opportunity to appoint an election commission, but it's another pair of shoes. This is about the serious legislative activity of the House, which, if it holds to itself, must be kept in mind that it will also be responsible for the elections in BiH next year, according to the law, which we adopted or some other sublaws. And to inform us, how Mihajlović of the 35 sublegal acts prepared to be put into Parliament's procedure. As far as I know, no sublegal act, concerning the October 5th election, 100, is undermining the date, which is from newspapers, not the decisions of this home, neither of them, is put at our disposal, that we be informed in progress, nor is the Constitutional and Legal Commission, nor the House of Peoples, officially involved in the making of acts, together with the Council of Ministers or the corresponding ministry, or that it influences the process of passing such laws. It's unusual that it's been so many months, that there are no signals or negative or positive at all. I would like to ask a statement on this Mr. Mihajlović and, of course, our relationship with the College to prepare, our position ready for next year's election. It's one important element of all other stories. And the last thing I'm interested in is the question concerning the request for a change to the Constitutional Court's decision on changes to the Constitution of the Republika Srpska and the Federation. In the meantime, we read that, on the one hand, this process is being conducted in BiH non-synchronically at different speeds, the House of Nations has...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1114	I'd like to ask you, three minutes you have to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1115	The people's home has, in my opinion, a real interest in the topic of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, concerning the equality of the peoples in BiH and the citizens, has either as a item of the agenda or as information from institutions called the Parliament of the RS and the Parliament of the Federation of BiH. I would ask that our home of the people, at last, deal with what is called the protection of the national interests and interests of the BiH Parliament. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1116	I thank Mr Spahić. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will take the floor unless MPs and delegates act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I remind you of the envoy's questions being asked in writing, Article 118. In writing, the last part of the written question shall indicate whether an oral or written response is sought. The next item of the agenda is question and answer. All parliamentary initiatives related to the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Peoples are being directed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, depending on what is desired. If the conclusion, whether the resolution will take place, whether the law will take place, whether the debate will take place etc. So he would ask Mr Spahić to formulate valuable initiatives and questions here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for them to have the right effect. Mr. Novaković further answered the question. I'd leave for answers tomorrow all so they don't open up now. I believe the Council of Ministers will be more prepared. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1117	I have two questions. The first question – how much funds were spent over the period 1.1 compared to the approved budget for 2001. - 30.9.2011? The answer would beg before saying about the Rebalance budget. And I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1118	The question is directed to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1119	To the Council of Ministers. The second question - what have the competent institutions done to determine responsibility for the audit office's statements? You need a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-23-0.u1120	Thank you. Is there more? There isn't. Thank you, thank you. That concludes the extension of the 10th session, and I would like to inform you that the beginning of the 11th session is tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
