ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3733	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 7th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The members of the BiH presidency, chair and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe, representatives of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the EU's Observation Mission in BiH, representatives of other international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Office for the Review of Naturalised Status after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the BiH Constitution, as well as, normally, the representative of the Commission for the Review of Financial Business Institutions of BiH. They were called to consider reports that are on the agenda today. Representatives of public information funds were also invited to monitor the work of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I warmly welcome and thank you for participating in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also agree that the session is attended by 37 MPs and that we have a quorum for full work and decision-making. The absence of the session was justified by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, foreign trade and economic relations minister, for official routes. I have not received any other announcements of my absence, except for Mr Ljubić, who is currently having a conversation with one of the representatives of the international community. And this time, gentlemen, we have one previous question, it's about taking over the duties of new deputies. The chairman of the Interim Election Commission, Ambassador Robert Beri, informed reporters from April 10th and 17th that he had accepted resignations on the parliamentary duty of Mr Beriz Belkić and Joza Križanović. In line with the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission, it has been found that Mr Mustafa Cuplov is the next qualified candidate on the list of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Mrs Branislava Ferzanović is on the SDP list of BiH. Therefore, Mr Cuplov and Mrs Ferzanović were appointed MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2 This way, I invite them to give a solemn statement, so that they may take over the MP's duty. Please get up and get...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3734	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. To respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. I congratulate you on your statement and welcome to the House of Representatives. With congratulations and a lot of success, the desire for a lot of success in the work of new MPs, MPs at the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, gentlemen Members of Parliament, we are moving to work on the agenda proposal. You received a draft agenda with a call for the union. With the invitation you also received the minutes of the 5th and 6th sessions of the House. The materials from points 2 to 25 you got earlier. This draft agenda was discussed at the House College session, with the presidents of Members' clubs, held on the 11th month. The fact is, at that time, we couldn't reach a full political consensus on the agenda proposal. However, the agenda is proposed for this session, using business opportunities. Namely, a number of members of an extended college felt that the examination of the law passed by the High Representative should be postponed for a while, in order to carry out consultations. Most, however, followed the position of the High Representative that these laws should be adopted in the same text, after being adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly, as such, it is later possible for amendments to go to any changes and complements in the ordinary parliamentary procedure. Because of the different opinions, at the mentioned session, we asked the Office of the High Representative to deliver its position in writing to us, in order to once again remove some dilemmas about the possible procedure for the adoption of these laws in Parliament. You gentlemen are MPs, today on the bench you have received the position of the Office of the High Representative, the position is clear and unequivocal and I hope that you have read it and that it is not particularly, nor is it necessary to comment on it in particular. Also today, you have also received memos from the foreign minister, related to travel documents and some other information that has been requested and answered parliamentary questions. From a set of laws declared by the High Representative, we should exclude the BiH State Anthem Act, item 4 of the proposed agenda. This is because the law was adopted by the House of Representatives on 10 February 1999, but was not adopted by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The preamble of the Law states that the Law was declared on a temporary basis, until it was adopted by the House of Nations in the same form. Therefore, the Council of Ministers delivered this law by mistake to the House of Representatives and was incorporated by mistake into the draft agenda. Regarding the draft agenda, the College also has one addition. At yesterday's session of the collegiates of both homes, it agreed on a proposal for a decision on 3 amendments to the Decision on the organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We felt that this decision should be taken as soon as possible, signed by both the presidency and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe it is necessary to put it on the agenda and bring it as soon as possible in order to establish a maximum and efficient, organised, rationally set up systematisation and organisation of jobs, both the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly and the functional services that meet the needs of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we suggest that it be placed on the agenda, as 26 points and point 26. becomes point 27 and so on. These were the necessary notes and corrections of our agenda proposal, necessary for the start of the session. I think this information is enough and that I can serve for a quality discussion on the draft agenda of the 7th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Exceptions. Whether there are comments, amendments, corrections or other observations or suggestions on the agenda. I'm opening a debate here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3735	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I propose as the second item of the agenda of today's House of Representatives, to discuss the current political situation in BiH, based on information from the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, which has already conducted an official review of the situation. I don't have to argue with the importance of our consideration of the current political security situation and the seriousness of the issues it implies. I believe that, given the importance and seriousness of these issues, it would be irresponsible for the highest representative and legislative body of BiH to at least not get to know, if not, on the basis of information from the Presidency and the Council of Ministers about the current security situation and the political situation in BiH, of course. I'm adding, of course, that I'm keeping it completely religious and natural to be the 2nd point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3736	Thank you, Ambassador Neimarlija. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3737	Respected Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, honored guests, supporting Mr Neimarlija's proposal, I would only extend this point a little bit, and in the context of what Mr Neimarlija suggested. I am asking as an MP for clarification from Mr Matić for a statement published in “Dnevni Avaz” and transferred from the “Daily List”, and it refers to this particular problem, the problem of which Mr Neimarlija spoke. In this statement, everything in Bosnia, for many of us who defended Bosnia, is not questionable in Bosnia, which is why I am asking Mr Matić for an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3738	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. Let's go with the discussion. Who's still answering for the word? Mr. Bilbija. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3739	The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs, respected guests, presented before the House of Representatives a proposal of 16 laws that was passed in the previous period, using its powers on a provisional basis by the High Representative for BiH. It is laws that apply all relevant institutions in BiH, from municipalities, cantons, entities and joint institutions. These laws are part of the legal system and legal order in BiH. It is important laws, which she failed to pass, which was the reason for the High Representative for BiH to bring. Proposals for the adoption of these laws by the Council of Ministers are not high-quality and are essentially not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Thus, it is only concluded that the enforcement of certain laws requires a fine one. the assets and not a respected member of point 2.e. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which states that the proposal provides an explanation containing the financial and other means necessary for the implementation of the law. The reasons do not show the amount of funds needed or whether those funds are planned in the budget, or whether they are necessary in parallel, if the laws are passed to implement the budget rebalancing. I remind you that the laws at the Council of Ministers were adopted on 19.03.2001, and the budget was adopted at the session on 27.03.2001. The Council of Ministers as a Proposer, in preparation, has made other formal failures, which are the reason why these laws cannot be discussed at today's session, shows an example of the proposal for a law on BiH's national anthem. Here's a moment ago we got an interpretation, but I don't mind saying it again. That is how the House of Representatives is asked by the Council of Ministers to consider and adopt the bill despite the fact that the House of Representatives adopted on 10 February 1999, as it cannot be twice declared because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The next example, which confirms the justification of our approach, is the Bill on the Court of Justice of BiH, because it is the fact that before the Constitutional Court of BiH, a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH is being conducted. The consideration and decision-making of the bill, which is being conducted before the BiH Constitutional Court, is not in line with our declared goal of affirming and respecting BiH institutions, in this case the Constitutional Court and the Parliamentary Assembly. It is a practice in democratic countries to await the Constitutional Court's decision. Dear Members of the Parliament, I would like to point out another important reason, which is not enough time to prepare quality for the material delivered, because the call for a session of MPs was given two days ago, and we know that it was headed by both the Easter and the Easter holidays. The issue of passing laws by emergency procedure is not only technical, but a democratic principle in democratic countries and cannot be a practice, but an exception where it must be reasoned, which in this case has not been done. We expect the Proposer, the Council of Ministers, as well as MPs in the House of Representatives to respect these arguments, so that today's and future sessions will be in the function of affirming the conscious exercise of our trust, respect for legal norms and responsibility for the affirmation of BiH institutions. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3740	I'd like to thank Ambassador Bilby. Who's still answering for the word? I must until someone calls to point out that the call left on April 12th, last Thursday, since we received the laws by an emergency procedure by the Council of Ministers, nothing is disputed, so the draft agenda is based on business opportunities. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3741	Dear gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, it has obviously become a practice for you to take the liberty of declaring something business-right without referring to a member of the Rules of Procedure and not explaining it, there are two reasons why you did not pay attention to what is written in the Rules of Procedure or that you are doing it on purpose, and both are not well. It is not good for this parliament and it is not good for the atmosphere that should rule in this parliament. You here, at the beginning of the session, said there was no consensus from either the short college or the Kolegijum in the larger class. And then tell me on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure did you call a meeting? Secondly, by which member of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to say these questions, I must also use the right to say what I think when you answer, because before your answer, I don't know how to react. According to which member of the Rules of Procedure did you put 17 points, in this form, as you stated here? So if you read it to me, you say, explain it, because I'd like this home to do business. When you answer that, then of course I'll see if there's any need for my reaction or not. Well, since I'm asking you as chairman, you have a lot to answer from the scene first.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3742	I think it's quite a clear business opportunity that allows you to call a session in a situation,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3743	Just tell me a member, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3744	Two members, member of the 25th member, are listed in the call, which defines the powers of the chairman of the House of Representatives, who convenes the session and the second member is member 47. Since the Council of Ministers referred these laws to an emergency procedure and in this context everything is clear, it means that a session can also be called within a short period of ten days, and in this context calls and submissions have been made. So, for seven days, it's quite sufficient to organise and schedule a session, so Article 25 and Article 47(3).
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3745	Answer another question so I can react.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3746	The second question is defined, if necessary, to call for help, conditionally speaking, a letter that you received on the congregation benches. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3747	Please, I'm looking for the Rules of Procedure. Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3748	The Rules of Procedure did not define the law-making procedure, which was declared on the provisional basis of the High Representative in BiH. They are based on the decisions of the bonski and Herzegovina Declaration, the Management Board of the Implementation Council, made last May 2000. In this sense, the powers of the High Representative in BiH are quite clear and unequivocal. As a final authority, it is interpreted as the adoption of an official authority in BiH, a law on a temporary basis, and in this sense, the High Representative, declaring these laws on a temporary basis, prescribes and requires verification in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, without the possibility of amendments, interventions in part or in the whole of the text and without any conditions. It is a procedure defined by the High Representative in the absence of a procedure defined by the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3749	What member is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3750	I'm warning you one more time. So, the laws, the 16 laws that are before you are not defined, the procedure is not defined in the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Rules of Procedure. And in that context, you can't call yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3751	So it's not defined.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3752	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3753	Yeah, okay. Please, first of all, let me say that this is a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure, everything in the Rules of Procedure is defined and I tell you that you have used Article 25, point 1.v. for calling this session, not Article 47(3), and it is clearly seen from the call, clearly. The fact that you are now in agreement with the question is that I cannot help you, but also when you refer to article 47. The position of the 3rd part of the public, for reasons of legality in the work of this House, I will read that Article 47, paragraph 3, which reads: “In urgent cases, and at the request of at least ten MPs, vice-president or by his own decision, the chair may convene a session within 10 days, in which case the agenda of the sitting may be proposed during its maintenance”. It is quite clear that this does not refer to what you are talking about right now, because the Council of Ministers, here you, Mr. Chairman, have confused MPs, so perhaps yourself and everyone here, there is a business possibility that the Council of Ministers, here is not the OHR's office proposing, nor can it be according to the Rules of Procedure. 16 laws, Mr. Chairman, proposes the Council of Ministers, and you said so, and I ask you 7 not to use the name of the OHR office, because in this case it is not necessary. The legislator is the Council of Ministers, which is a business council, which can be a business proposal and enable it, enables our Rules of Procedure not to look for it now, and for this call for a session when they seek an urgent procedure, says Rules of Procedure 104 and 105. So I have to tell you, I'm asking the Kolegijum to take a stand here today so I can intervene again, because this is a general mess. I ask you, as a Kolegijum, to sit down gentlemen and see how you called the session, on which basis, on the agenda of these 16 laws, and there is a possibility that they may be placed on the agenda. I immediately say that there is a business option, and if you didn't use it properly, and I wouldn't want me to be giving lectures here right now, if I had to meet the Constitutional and Legal Committee to give my interpretation, I don't think it's a bad idea, but the worst thing would be if we went through this right now, we broke a rough Rules of Procedure, and there's a law and a way for us here to decide how to do it, so I suggest a half-hour break, that you gentlemen agree to come out here with a clear attitude. That's what I'm looking for on behalf of the SDS MPs' club. I'm saying there's a business possibility, I'm saying it wasn't used. I'd be happy to say if that's what I'm asked to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3754	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac for these interventions. You've got half an hour's break. ... a meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, following this half-hour break, the College may announce the following. [[PAUZA]] The session was established and called on on the basis of Articles 25 and 47, and in this context, we remain in that the session is based on positive business regulations and provisions, with the definition of the agenda and 16 laws proposed by the OHR and declared by the OHR on a provisional basis, the College considers that there has been, in part, discrepancies and discrepancies between the letter of Mr Johnson's High Representative and the normal procedure called by the Council of Ministers of BiH and, in that sense, allow me to justify that, that the Council of Ministers has the right, says in a letter from Mr Džonson, Ambassador, the Council of Ministers has the right to Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to demand that the proposed laws be adopted in the same text, such as the text of the proposal. In such a situation, the chairman of the House of Representatives directly delivers the bill to the House. If Dom adopts the request, he's going to vote on the proposals. Amendments to the law cannot be proposed. I confirm that the procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers is in accordance with the full legal procedure and that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH can adopt these 16 laws without amendment and addition and in identical text, that is Mr Džonson's position as ambassador. In contrast, it was partly not in line with a letter from the Council of Ministers, which called for Article 104, which objectively should not be found on the agenda, and I, that is the position, the findings and attitude of the College of the House of Representatives, along with the necessary, unartificial truth, that after defining these views we spoke with Mr Ljubić, who gave the oral consent to this position of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I in that context, here it is, so. The position of the College is: 8 1. The meeting shall be convened and justified in accordance with Articles 25 and 47; 2. That the College found a discrepancy between the High Representative's letter means through a letter from Mr Džonson, Deputy High Representative and the Council of Ministers, which calls for Article 104. And Mr. Džonson is calling for article 105. Rules of Procedure. Discussing Article 105. Rules of Procedure, the objectively High Representative calls for a member who allows these 16 laws to be put on the agenda and in this context, since we have established a procedural discrepancy between the memos of the High Representative and the Council of Ministers and in this context we declare our position.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3755	Does the agenda stay the same? [[speaks from the site]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3756	No, no, in that context, we call on the Council of Ministers to show themselves around this position of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3757	The reasons for which the Council of Ministers called for Article 104. And Mr. Džonson, 105, they've been discussed. Our lawyers in our legal service, that he is a member of 105th just working out a member of 104. If that doesn't matter, but I don't want to waste time, you're gonna get a new letter and it's gonna be on 105th, and then it's all the same. The reason we thought this was adopted by emergency procedures is because nothing can be changed. These laws must be uncertained, made ours. Nostration itself does not allow any changes. The amendments will be possible when they are nostrified, when they become ours, when both Parliament's homes bring them in and they feel that, since nothing can be changed, it is considered a simple business, and it is simple to call on Article 104 and 105, etc. We've come to realize that this disgrace should be removed from this land. To have laws imposed on us, that's proof that we're not doing well, and then someone forced us to. For me, this country will be normal when we don't need a High Representative or when we have laws imposed, and we just wanted to clean up that mess and that's why we said we're going to nostrification. In addition, there is nothing in these laws to fix and there is no reason why we should not change them after a while, improve them, etc., which we cannot do without the nostrification, but if you conclude that the difference between Article 104 and Article 105 is sufficient reason to reject them from today's session, switching to another session, that's your right. We'll send you a new letter. As for the budget, we can't write anything new about the budget except one sentence, which will read. Nostration of these laws doesn't cause a single cost mark, except for how much will be spent sitting here. Because these are laws in office. Here's an example. The state border service on her is now a law imposed. There she is in Budget, written with 20 million. There's another item that needs 40 million in service this year, so we're going to rebalance her with those missing 20s. So nostration as an act carries no expense. Each of these laws is already in the 9th Budget, because in function, it was accounted for. However, if you want to get that sentence explicitly, you'll get that, and we'll get everything you're looking for, and if I am, I have to say disappointed. Article 104 and 105 is not the real reason. Someone here cares about the extension of old practice and that we still have laws imposed, which means we're still an abnormal country. If this parliament cannot do this act of nostrification, I will be very disappointed with the degree of normalisation of this country. So if you want to take it off and we'll send you these additional explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3758	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Banjac. Excuse me, Mr. Banjac has asked for a break, he's right, he's entitled to the championship. I am honored gentlemen, asking for a break wanted and thought and I claim that what we want to do today is possible in the business framework. Of course I didn't get it, and now I can choose to tell you how it's done and I'll say it. Secondly, I am really surprised here, too, as is our chairman of the Council of Ministers, chairing and disappointed of course, I am also disappointed, because for the first time, I have to say that I am not a lawyer and of course I am happy to listen to everything and I am happy to adopt what I do not know, but that there is nostration and in this area it is not clear to me, and if there are gentlemen, please define the point as nostration of the law so list them, because I see them here that I need to nostrefit them, as Mr. Chairman says. Well, since that's not clear to me for the following reasons, which for me in the translation of nostration means next. Translation into the language of the dominant country and placing it within the framework of the legislation of the same country. Neither of us shouldn't be here, because that's how it is, maybe you know some other interpretation, I'm sure I'm willing to accept it. However, it is obvious to be going back to a position that is not good. You know, and I'm glad Mr. Chairman said that there was something he didn't read here. Sir, the First Deputy High Representative is often mentioned here. Gentlemen, I don't think it's right, to so often mention a tall institution and its representatives, they helped how they thought it was best. These laws have become the property of the Council of Ministers and please, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, you must now manage and swim in that area where you have entered. Don't use the name and reputation of a tall institution, you don't need to. You took over. Here I am going to take over the law on foundations and associations, and I will be very happy to be his promoter when it's okay, and then I will say, I will not mention whoever wrote it but me, and so please don't mention OHR's candelarium. Furthermore, I think it's possible, obviously, that Mr. First Deputy High Representative saw the only possibility in article 105, and I see the only possibility here. Article 104 is perfectly precise that the procedure is reduced to half, but means they go into regular procedure, which is, it's just a short period of time. It's not a shortened procedure, it's a time of procedure. Now, Mr. Deputy, that's different things. A shortened time procedure and a shortened procedure are not the same thing. So you agree. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3760	I agree it's a full procedure with a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3761	Now, that's very important, that's Article 104i, and I accept if the motionary remains with member 104. Let's go work, gentlemen. Let's work on it. And even more so, if the proponent of this moment declares that he is staying with Article 104, we can enter the first reading, without any legal interference, we can enter the first reading. Give us a chance to enter the first reading. If you don't give as a proposal, it's not my fault, you have to make a statement, let us or not enter the first reading. Here, don't let the gentlemen in front of the BiH public blame each other for obstructions. There's a constructive proposal, give us a chance of first reading, and we'll see what we can do next. And if we go into first-reading procedures, we can go over all the laws in that procedure today. Therefore, we don't need to withdraw the law, that we're looking for a retreat. You have to make up your mind now. Did you stay with member 104? If you give us the opportunity to enter the first-reading procedure, so that we can make that clear, and here I think, the SDS Club will accept that procedure, or not. If you say you don't let me use Article 104, then you're withdrawing the law, and I'm not asking you to withdraw the law. You have to give an answer. If you change your attitude now, and you say it's 105th, then I'll take the right to say something about that article 105. Then, I ask that my proposal be answered and I ask that no institution that has done the job be used and has now transferred its powers to the promoter. So, Mr. Chairman, I reserve the right to react if it's 105.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3762	I thank Ambassador Banjac, Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3763	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, guests, ladies and gentlemen, I have a constructive proposal. I'm not going to accuse Mr. Banjac of stalling and taking off his agenda. I have a proposal to the Council of Ministers. Gentlemen, let's give the Council of Ministers half an hour to change Article 104 to 105 in writing and keep working. What Mr. Banjac says is that we're going to the study, to the first reading. It's clear and loud that there's no reading here, gentlemen. What a reading if those laws are already applied. Mr. Banjac, I think you as an excellent acquaintance of these, as they are called, business activities, here activities, you know it clearly and loudly said that and don't put it back, because it's a direct attack on, and, obstruction not to say otherwise. Here we give the Council of Ministers half an hour to change the 104th letter in writing to 105th and hello. The session is scheduled for the Rules of Procedure and we have nothing more to say. Thank you very much. I apologize just one more, according to the Rules of Procedure, for the adoption of the agenda of the discussion is limited to three minutes. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3764	Replica, Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3765	Dear gentlemen, I'd really like to hear what I've said. I really didn't ask to be removed from the agenda of anything, and what Mr. Šašivarević is saying, thank you very much for respecting what I do and do, but I ask that this is not being brought under obstruction in any way. What you're saying, Mr. Šašivarević, has no foothold in the Rules of Procedure. It's not my fault he's gone. The Rules of Procedure are who he is. I don't mind, and I agree, I'm just asking you to do what I didn't say not to say that I said it, because I'm really careful what I say. So, I didn't ask for a lift, I asked for what the Council of Ministers wrote. If someone is obstructing that it does not go as anyone else thinks, then it is the Council of Ministers, because it is stated by Article 104. I didn't do it, and please don't put it in my mouth. I didn't do it. So, please, I agree and let this come up with a meeting of the Council of Ministers and by deciding how they already decide, let's see what we do. If he won't do it, go ahead and do it. The Council of Ministers is on the move and I beg you to know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3766	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Is anyone else answering for word? Whether the Council of Ministers feels the need to make another statement about these procedural discrepancies, or the Council of Ministers requests a break and may ask for it. Can we take 15 minutes off for the Council of Ministers? Thank you. We gave and realized this break. [[PAUZA]] The word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Božidar Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3767	Dear gentlemen, in order to and, in good faith, not to extend this situation. The Council of Ministers held a session and decided to send you this text. I gave it to the president. At its 2nd session of 15.3., the BiH Council of Ministers discussed and laid down a proposal for 16 laws, declared by the High Representative for BiH, which were held on the agenda of the 19.4. Representatives' House and concluded that the laws in question are being considered by an emergency procedure, in accordance with the provisions of Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 220/00. In this way, the provisions of Article 104 shall be replaced by the provision of Article 105, with the proposals of these laws. Representatives of Parliament's House of Representatives. So now you have 105th not only in this accompanying letter but also in all the accompanying acts, wherever 104 says, it's supposed to say 105th, that's what this letter says. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3768	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We have this act, which agrees and avoids procedural discrepancies and calls for different members of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. on the letter of the Deputy High Representative. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3769	I, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, propose to this high home to form an independent commission that will, by name and last name, focus on the situation, so that this no longer happens to us gentlemen. Here we lost three hours because of this situation. If we had been better studied by members of the Rules of Procedure, this wouldn't have happened to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3770	I thank Ambassador Šašivarević. Here you go. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3771	Dear gentlemen, it's not a mistake not to admit a mistake, it's a mistake to make a new one. That's why I think it's persistent to prove thank you to Mr. Šašivarević who precisely said that there is one serious mistake and negligence in the work, and no one has asked that someone hang or god forbid something else is doing because it's been wrong, but please, I don't want to get myself any points and they don't need me, I just want to get attention to the possible consequences. This is about a specificity that is not known in our legislative practice. It's an imposition of the law, provided they're imposed. You know how they are imposed, and there is one sentence, which in the preamble of these laws says they will be in force until the Parliamentary Assembly adopts them in the same text. Our legislative practice doesn't know that way. Not even a member of 105th will solve this situation, I'm sure, for two reasons. I'm reading that article. He, through him, can be put on the agenda of these laws and I mean it and I will say that you can put 105th is said: when it presents a proposal of a high degree of urgency or a bill that is not so complex, here the apostrophe is not so complex, that we can adopt or reject fully, the promoter can ask the home to consider it in a single reading. There are two questions here. If these are high-grade laws and second question, are these laws of low degree complexity? These are the two questions this Parliament is looking to answer, or, I'm leaving one of those two to, do you understand? You can answer this one question or another. I think there's a question here for both of us and what happens next. Furthermore, the request of them earlier points, chairing directly submits them to the home at its first session. You now need Mr. Chairman to formulate your request and put it to a vote, so that we can tell if these laws are what I said, and only then can we put them or not. You're aware of that. Give us that conclusion, request. Thank you very much, Deputy Chairman, I know that he listens to me carefully and immediately throws what he needs next, I see it, you warn and that's good. You see, if we started one mechanism, it means in the first next session, and it's not this session. I really meant your constructive contribution to this situation. So, it's not this one but the other one, but please, 13 this situation is legally far more complex and exceeds this, so I'm referring you to Article 137. Rules of Procedure. So we've adopted the Rules of Procedure. Home, but please, we all agree in one thing that what we now have as a situation is not ordinary or ever applied and we have to resolve it, and Article 137 says: The House of Conclusion can regulate specific issues. Is this a specific question, gentlemen? I'm asking you that, which is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Is the Rules of Procedure a regulated question imposed by law? It's not. In this case, provisions relating to basic legislative procedures apply, unless they apply to work in the commission phase, and we are precisely required that these laws do not go into the commission phase. Is that right? So, by preparing the next session, I didn't mean to complicate it, and I'm really asking you to understand that. In preparation for the next session of gentlemen and the fate of these laws, see what Article 105 says and what Article 137 says. Put these two members under review and seriously approach this procedure. I don't have anything else. If you think otherwise, please ask you to do what you think by asking this member. Now read us 105 if you're standing and give us a chance. But I'm telling you it says here in the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3772	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3773	I welcome all present. I see that our esteemed colleague Banjac insists on the legality and insists on interpreting the Rules of Procedure, as if no one has read it, and you keep going three minutes to determine the agenda. Let's try to stick to that Rules of Procedure for a while. I think this article 105, which was called by the Council of Ministers, is fully responsible for finding this proposal on the agenda today. First of all, when it comes to the high-level bill, we all have to agree here that this is about a high degree of urgency. We call upon all democratic countries of the world. There's no land in the world like Bosnia. There is no country in the world where the High Representative adopts such important laws, on which he must operate the state and there is no country in the world where the agenda cannot be established so that these laws become BiH's property, not the High Representative. Gentlemen, we are about to move into European integration. Without these laws, we can't. I think today's attempt to lead the agenda in that direction, that someone is trying to prevent our inevitable and safe path to Europe and European integration. This is about, by chance, someone's slip, it's about article 105. It's an alternatively simple law. So, the law of high degree necessity, we all have to agree that it's a high degree law or a bill of law that's not complex, or, that means alternatively. So we can only consider high-level emergency law, and that is where we have to agree that it is such a law. If it is requested that a request to discuss whether it is a high degree of urgency, submits the Chairman of the dom, which is really in article 105, he can do so now and go on the agenda to adopt it. We, therefore, are discussing whether these laws are urgent and at the same session we can adopt them as such, without discussing the content. 14 It would be a little strange for a high representative to pass the laws, and we are making some kind of interception in his text. Gentlemen, let's pass the laws, and change them as our own as it is under procedure. Thank you very much. I would only pray more, the people of my environment turn off the television when this BiH parliament appears. Let's do something to make this institution the way it deserves and that people don't turn off our televisions until we pray there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3774	So far, this tall home has been at the level of its dignity and dignity, and in that sense, absolutely, there are no grades that are trying to talk about today. I ask you, with full respect for what has been done so far, that today's session is a test for the House of Representatives, and we have also said, for justified reasons, because this is a precedent in terms of the functioning of a parliamentary system in every civilised state, and that means, considering and adopting laws, which have been passed by the High Representative, which are temporary character and in this context seek adoption in the Parliamentary Assembly, without amendments or any additions, which creates assumptions that then can go into parliamentary procedure and in the laws amending the laws that the High Representative has declared. Which means, the procedure, it was also said, in a letter that such a procedure was not drawn up by Parliament's House of Representatives, and in this context is a single legal vacuum. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3775	I'd like to ask under what conditions we can even approach the profiling of these 16 laws and ask all of the following for any further discussion that in this sense try to offer a solution, I'll try to make my contribution. First of all, I think that this new memo by the Council of Ministers has made the terms of Article 105 that we can work today. It's a very short explanation. Since this letter is called for by the basic letter following the session, the March Council of Ministers' session, I do not know the date, in other words, then the procedure for which the chairman is required to present him at the first next session, this is the order of things today, and for her we have received it as a proposal for the agenda, and so I explain Article 105. Therefore, the procedural requirements have been met, the elements of Article 105(2) have been met. I suggest that otherwise, we all have access to this, that this is the Council of Ministers' legal proposal, regardless of the background that we are all aware of, and in that sense, the Council of Ministers has chosen a procedure that does not involve amendment work. On the other hand, Article 105 provides that kind of possibility. Given the justification of these laws, because they are already legal practice in BiH, I also stand at the view that a very urgent procedure can approach the valorisation of these 16 laws. So, in any case, I think all the conditions and legal-formal and those logically which I care primarily about to join today in the agenda the valorisation of these laws, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3776	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Is anyone else answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3777	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I will be here, it seems that no one will speak that simple folk language, what is the essence here, and what this is all about, what this is all about. I will tell the simple Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian language that everyone understands me. I think the point here is, there's a so-called here. two ways we can resolve this question, which is: the first direction is that what the Council of Ministers has proposed, what, these 16 laws, which the High Representative has passed, we do not have the right to discuss, about them we do not have the right to submit amendments to them as they are, but thus we show that we as a congregation are not a congregation, but we are some body that has narrowed down some of the things that are natural for us to vote as one suggests. So, we are not the right MPs to work under the Rules of Procedure, but we have to adopt it, and so we have to say the other way that there is, that what we have, now we have this proposal that the Council of Ministers take these laws as a basis, send them to the first and second reading, that we, along with the amendments, deliver our proposals, amends and supplements, and that as this assembly we adopt and that they are valid and that these are the essential laws that this assembly has passed, because we now have these laws, which the High Representative has brought, which are temporary and they are valid until we bring some others. What we would be distracted by this member here, this one can't, etc. I think the point is what I said. If we want to bring them in, to close our eyes to say, this is what we've done that's one direction and then change them later or go this other way, that the Council of Ministers suggests this as a basis, first and second reading, along with amendments and to bring this assembly and all the laws that will apply to all BiH citizens, that's that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3778	I thank Ambassador Spasojević. I repeat again. In the process check, on my initiative, we asked for the High Representative's opinion. We have received a legally justified and valid answer. The High Representative is a legal and legitimate BiH institution, which has the authority of the bosnski and Madrid Declaration, the Peace Implementation Council's Governance Board has the right and the power to declare laws on a provisional basis. It has the right and the power to demand that these laws be adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and is the final authority in the interpretation of both the BiH Constitution and other acts, which means that the letter that we have received today on the assembly benches absolutely relaxes and enables us to enter, after the adoption by the Parliamentary Assembly, this set of laws, 16 laws, into the procedure of the law amending the laws, which have been declared by the High Representative, only after approval, what the High Representative has declared on a provisional basis, and these are quite clear, clear procedural and all other things. The Council of Ministers' position with the letter and the position of ambassadors, or OHR's office, has now been agreed, and this is no longer disputed. It remains to be declared by democratic means whether or not we are, in that context, the democratic right of each MP is the political will of what is called the draft agenda and the points of these 16 points. So it's certain, Ambassador Malkić. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3779	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I think we've exhausted all these parliamentary marifetteluks that we could have on this matter and I suggest the following, that these laws be put to the vote and that we see if there is a congregation majority, which allegedly exists in this house. If she's not here, then let's not lie to ourselves or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3780	I thank Ambassador Malkić. Ambassador Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3781	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3782	You have a break of 10 minutes. From the meeting of the House of Representatives, a break has been requested by the president of the club Mr. Bilbija, an MP, please be my guest. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3783	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, present guests, pursuant to Article 105(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, where it stands: the request submitted by the Chairman of the House directly to the House at his next session. Also, at the beginning of the debate on the agenda, we asked questions relating to Article 82(2), which prescribes the content of mandatory parts, the reasoning of the bill. This and the other questions we've asked haven't been answered yet. For these reasons, our club finds, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that there are no conditions for today's session to discuss the draft law at paragraphs 2 to 17.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3784	Thank you, Ambassador Bilbija. Mr. Đedović has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3785	Madam Chairman, honourable members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I have come out with the desire to appeal to get out of this state, by the act of voting. The two currents are clearly divided here and I have the impression of looking for the good, in the act of looking for a good reason, we're wasting our time and wasting our nerves and the nerves of those who are watching us. I'd like to appeal to one more thing, which is that, for now, it's 16 laws from the High Representative. If we keep this up, there'll be 16 more very soon. 17 We have work space, we have working conditions, let us use them and let us avoid this position. I would also point out that in one of the materials that we have received that we have to adopt 1400 laws, BiH legislation would bring the conditions in force in the European Union. In our pre-election promises, we said we were in this European Union, someone said in this mandate, someone said in the next, but no one further. If we keep this up, our great grandkids won't live to see it, because they won't be able to last longer to go alive, they'll be looking for bread elsewhere. That's why I'm appealing to get out of this state by an act of voting and to solve what can be solved further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3786	Thank MP Đedović, with that only to say that 6400 regulations and laws are defined by the European Union's requirements and the adjustment of BiH's registration to the European Union, so one is the Council of Europe and the other is the European community in terms of BiH's accession.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3787	In the materials you delivered to us, I can find them 1400. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3788	We'll send a message to the ministry no more, I suggest the president of the SDP BiH Club, so Mr. Bogičević takes the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3789	Dear MPs, guests, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, I propose that this parliament respect today's letter of recommendation from these laws of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which says that the laws in question are being considered by an urgent procedure, as provided for in Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The SDP BiH MPs' club believes that all these laws should be adopted in Parliament and, of course, expecting a big job for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, the programme of work of the House of Representatives and the adoption of the many laws that lead us to the Ve. Given that this request has been made by the proposings at today's session, I propose that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives be fully respected and that these laws be considered in accordance with Article 105(2) at the first next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with the request that this session be held as soon as possible, no later than 10 to 15 days. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3790	I thank Ambassador Bogićević. Ambassador Banjac. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3791	I hope that the respected Mr. Bogićević is only a failure, they are not considered at the next session, but the request should be submitted and voted and then will be seen whether it will be considered. Do you agree on this change? I'm asking. Do you agree or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3792	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3793	To decision-making.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3794	Of course, it's not a dispute. Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3795	The BiH MPs' club does not see any reason to take these 16 laws off today's session and will not support and will not vote to take it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3796	I thank Ambassador Šašivarević. poslanik Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3797	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, esteemed guests, me in front of the SDA MPs' club, I say next. We don't support taking these laws off the agenda. Which we don't support, because we don't see that in the next session we're going to do anything better than we're doing today. Please, we've found one reason here now, so let's not discuss these laws. Next time, we'll probably find others. I will just remind myself that the SDA MP's club voted for these laws at the last call, and we think we should make a statement about them today.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3798	I thank Ambassador Ramiz Vilić. Does anyone else report on the agenda for today's session? I do, however, respecting everything that has been presented, with two additions, which are also given today on, I propose, reconstructed and reduced agenda, in the next, with the following proposals. 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 5th and 6th session of House of Representatives 2. Information, i.e. information on the political situation, or political situation in BiH; 3. Proposal for a law on archive construction and the BiH Archives; 4. Proposal for a competition law; 5. Draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Debt Act; 6. Draft law on associations and foundations of BiH; 7. Agreement establishing and protecting investments between BiH and the Republic of Greece, in order to give consent to ratification; 19 8. A social security agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia to give consent to ratification; 9. Report on business of the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Audit Office for 2000; 10. Report on the work of the Commission to consider the status of persons under-skilled after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the BiH Constitution; 11. Consider the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 12. Selection of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in: (a) Organisation on European Security and Cooperation, (b) Central European Initiative – Interparliamentary Union, (d) Parliamentary Assembly of WE, 13. Selection of members of the House Commissions, and 14. MPs' questions and answers. I don't think there was any other way out and the possibility of continuing the House of Representatives session. I suggest we make a statement on this agenda proposal. Any objections, suggestions? Who's for the proposal I read? Do you mind? Thank you. Who's being held back? - has one abstention. A necessary and necessary vote on the entity principle. Who's from the Federation of BiH on the agenda? Who's from the RS for the agenda? Thank you. So there are 36 MPs present. For the first round of voting, vote 24 – against 11- abstention 1. By entities: The Federation voted 11 for – no. RS, also voted in favour – which means the proposed agenda was adopted. Thank you and the proposed agenda, unfortunately against it was in the circle, I said 14 – against 11 – abstention 11. On the entity principle that – only for the Federation 11 – from RS 11, the proposed agenda was adopted according to the Rules of Procedure and the provisions. We can move to point one. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th and 6th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives Do you have any objections to the minutes? No one's answering. Who's in favour of adopting the penitentiary from the 5th and 6th session of the House of Representatives? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you, unanimously, with 36 votes for adopting the minutes of the 5th and 6th session of the House of Representatives. We have the express will and desire of BiH presidency member Mr. Beriz Belkić, moving to point 2 to introduce us to the Bureau on the current political situation in BiH. Take out Mr. Belkić. 20 Ad.2. Information on political situation in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3799	I welcome you all and I didn't exactly ask to speak, but the situation, when setting the agenda itself, imposed the need to, possibly make some comment, say this so I wouldn't happen to hurt the Rules of Procedure by accident. So you've got our conclusions, which we've established on 5th April o.g. I don't know if you found them in the materials, I saw that they were divided here, I hope you were able to read or possibly hear, they were in the means of information, etc. So, I will say in the shortest possible way that the predsjendištvo, right after, I say, had immediately responded to the first session that was held in full, as the first point and put this political-security situation, as it is said, estimating that this matter concerns the state of BiH, that it is not only a matter of the Federation, of course respecting that it is happening in the Federation, but that it is absolutely a matter of the state of BiH and that the Presidency, according to its constitutional function, is obliged to consider and take note of this situation and to seek solutions, together with other bodies in the state of BiH, therefore, including the government of the Federation, i.e. the Prime Minister of the Federation and the Government of the Republic of RS and vice-presidents and parliaments, of course in both entities. After these conclusions, we, as the Presidency, had a constant communication with the people of the Federation, trying to contribute to the realization of these conclusions. We were looking again yesterday for, or looking back a few days of new current information and we put this thing back on the Bureau's agenda and, as a result, is a document that we called the evaluation in carrying out these conclusions that I was talking about which of the 5th April about. Because it really wouldn't make any sense to draw conclusions anymore. So, we have claimed that one part of our conclusions, of course with the synchronised action of the other organs is being carried out, however, that one by one, in our opinion, an important part has not yet been implemented with its full capacity. So we're still in this grade, we insist that all rights, obligations, exclusively come true, responsibility through institutions, through the system. We asked for elections to be held without delay, i.e. elections in cantons that did not do so, calling for the responsibility of the political party, i.e. elected people, to whom citizens had given confidence, including the Unsko-Sasn Canton, not only of these cantons in which this is happening, to say self-government, but cantons in which no elections have been held at all, believing that this is very important. Furthermore, we have again called for elected deputies, that they are obliged without delay, to engage in the work of all the parliaments from which they are abstinent, including this parliament and, let's say, to say that it is not clear to me, here is Mr Mariofil Ljubić I hear here in the building, I call him to come and sit in this parliament and to deal with problems with others in this Parliament, if there are them in the way possible by his rules of procedure and the law to resolve matters. We have also assessed, unfortunately, that nothing has been done, that is, that is, the problem is not solved when it comes to completing the Constitutional Commission, which we appreciate that 21 is very important constitutional committees I am talking about the Constitutional Commission of the Federation House of Representatives, where one number of political parties have missed, that is, not a complete composition of the Constitutional Commission, so two members of the Croatian Nationality are missing for the Commission to be completely complete and the other members, according to our information are not ready without the full composition of the Commission to work. We believe that this commission is extremely important, because its direct involvement in the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision is practically of paramount importance. We have again called on soldiers of the Croatian component of the Federation Army, which are under the influence of one part, to say HDZ leadership, to leave their jobs, not just military and barracks, but, as they say, have left people's jobs, and they are now found in a certain way without status without their employer. We invited them to return to their jobs, to return to barracks and that the state is absolutely ready to take over their obligations to them and materially, etc. Appreciateing that the state is the only one who can be a serious employer, especially when it comes to the military. Furthermore, we warned and asked that the Banking Agency and the Ministry of Finance etc. Annihilates and repairs the potential consequences of payment traffic, which could arise by introducing a forced administration at the Herzegovina Bank. So, that our cash-flow institutions remove any unwanted effects on payment, among those users who used the services of the Herzegovska Banka. Of course, the Presidency will continue to monitor the development, the whole political situation and, of course, coordinate with the other bodies that this matter is concerned with. There's still this communication that we've all been talking about a lot lately, how necessary it is. The presidency there also has a clear view that it cannot have a dialogue with people who have made it clear that they have come out of the framework of the Constitution, the law, etc. which are creators and contractors of the Croatian Self-Government Project, i.e. actions that are completely illegal and unconstitutional, and we can talk to those people who are not in this project, people who are ready through the institutions of the system to solve any kind of problem that is found objectively to be a problem. In a concrete sense, the Presidency will try in the next week, I have initiated, to find a way to think in institutions, here I think of cantons, municipalities, to find conversants, who are willing to respect the system, who are willing to respect the Constitution of this country and to try to open this dialogue, as many say today, there is a need for dialogue. Of course, we do not exclude the need for dialogue, but we stress the importance of institutions, the importance of respect for the law and the importance of solving problems in the institutions of the system. I'm sorry if I was a little confused, because I'm surprised but also glad that this House of Representatives put this on the agenda today. Here I am prepared if there are any questions directly to the Presidency to answer, indicating that we have brought this all, of course, by consensus and that I am present today in front of the Presidency because of the obligations in the presidency that the other two members are carrying out here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3800	I thank the Bureau member, Mr. Beriz Belkić. You've heard this extra information. In writing you received information about the current political situation by the Presidency, before in materials for, and a call for this next session. Here you go. Is anyone answering for a word? Ambassador Osman Brka. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3801	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, honored guests, I thank Mr Belkić, who gave us the Presidency's views and thank you for including this in the agenda. However, we are not completely satisfied with the answer, especially that there is no Council of Ministers' position in this response. We asked that we have both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, because the role of the Council of Ministers is known. The thing about these things can't keep quiet. He can't have no attitude. I read a statement in Liberation this morning, where a man makes it very clear that no one is safe physical security if he comes to the premises of self-government. The other day I read that Mr. Belkić is ready to go to anywhere in BiH and thank him for that, but after this statement this morning, I am interested in the position of both the Presidency of the state and the Council of Ministers, because it is, it only further composing a very complex situation in BiH. I, when we were establishing the agenda, was actually when Mr. Neimarlija extended this item to the agenda, came out here and asked for this point to be extended with the addition, that Mr. Matić, the president of the Council of Ministers, explained his statement, which was given in the morning list, which was transferred to Dnevno Avaz 1.4, which reads: BiH has no army, but three party phalanges, which were founded by three national parties and of course cannot be made an army. It may be good to disband all of this and one day start forming the first army, if BiH needs an army at all. That, of course, depends not only on BiH but also on the situation in the environment. I am even convinced that BiH will soon not need an army but only as a state mark. I'm not sorry this happened with HVO, it better have surfaced now, rather than five years from now. The Party of Democratic Action, and I, as an MP in this House and my club, cannot accept this statement as it is, and there is no comment on it. The BiH Army, it was formed, we all know how and how, after Badenter's decision and the referendum and recognition of the internationally recognised state. The BiH Army has defended the constitutional and legal order of the state, and thank Bog we have succeeded in how much we have succeeded. If it hadn't been for that army, we wouldn't be sitting here today in the BiH State Parliament. Mr. Matić, we believe he cannot make such a statement and he can, like him, be Mr. Božidar Matić, as a private person, but cannot as Minister of the Ministerial Council of the State of BiH. I'm sorry he's not here, and he probably avoided the answer, but I'm sure all BiH defenders, all the chess and martial families, because a lot of people defended Bosnia, didn't just defend one nation, a lot of people defended Bosnia. Everyone who died for this Bosnia and everyone who remained grateful to Bog is healthy and alive and everyone who is disabled can certainly not accept this statement by Mr Matić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3802	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. I just want to introduce you to the fact that we are deeply faced with this situation, we have potentiated one thematic session of both homes and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives with the preparation of the Council of Ministers. 23 Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers, in addition to the consultations that we have carried out, is considered incompetent or simply under the Constitution of BiH and those prerogatives and ingenuities that it has that it cannot give a relevant response and that the Federation authorities can ultimately give a reasoned response to all the conflict of the situation that is characterized, one part of the Federation, but which is also transferred to the entire BiH area. So we did not ignore or ignore the problem, and probably after this information, we will assess the need to convene a thematic session, with an exclusive agenda, consider the current political situation in BiH, considering and agreeing with Mr Belkić and the BiH Presidency that this is the problem of the BiH state, that this is not the local problem of the Federation or some other part of our country. I propose that MP brkati, who has already explained and asked for one piece, means that in the context of the parliamentary question we can submit a request to the Council of Ministers for the chairman to explain his statement, which means that it would be enough to begin with, in terms of responsibility or simply clarifying the statement of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Please, who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3803	I am Dr. Buturović, I come from KN Canton, and I am very glad to have heard this information about the security situation in the state of BiH. I can tell you that this situation is, in the worst sense, reflected on our canton. There has been no executive authority down there for half a year, all these mandates of the technical government have passed, the legislative authority has been blocked and I would really and very glad that the state authorities have dealt with this problem and what I heard at the end of Mr. Belkić's exposure, that the state bodies, the Council of Ministers, will go out in the field a little bit, there was no ex department, it's easy to talk here, it needs to go out, talk to people, not only on one side, but on all sides. That's where we show the power of the state. We need to talk to people. We have to avoid conflicts, find the right conversants, and solve the problem, which is true, can't be solved at once, but by one systematic work, by detecting problems on the ground, by avoiding disagreements, by misunderstandings among people, normally, by those who live, because of them, we have been chosen, by them, by them, by them, by them, by them, by them, by them, by them, by them, by them, by whom we must live and work, and I believe that I am not pessimistic, I'm always optimistic, by far, by the means of doing it. I specifically appeal to the canton downstairs, especially to appeal to the state authorities, the federal authorities, so we can go together on both sides and on the other side to talk to people. In the conversation, it's better to talk and talk for 100 days than to make a problem one day. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3804	I thank Ambassador Buturović. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Mehtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3805	Dear Chairman, I'd like to say a few words on this agenda point. What happens by declaring the Croatian self-government 24 is, as we heard at yesterday's meeting of the Federation Parliament, an eclectic example of high treason, that is, the collapse of the constitutional and legal order of BiH. I can't understand that, I would say all the authorities in BiH are not watching and getting rid of what's happening in the inability to find an adequate solution. I think that under the existing positive regulations in BiH, we have ways of sanctioning such action. Unfortunately, as far as I'm aware, we haven't had a chance to make a statement on this matter, and in that sense, something concrete. We also have a chance on state television to watch a game that spins in prime terms by SFOR, where SFOR like some kind of, let me say, educational association addresses Hrvat and simply begs them not to follow those who do all this. They mention former Minister Miroslav Prce, who reported so many soldiers, in fact, is not a complete organization, so many soldiers who were on the Federation payroll fictitiously, who were paid. I think this is indeed a clue and a comedian, that a man, who, after all he's done in the Federation, or the Ministry of Defence, simply casually declares that this problem is not his concern, while, unfortunately, on the Bosniak side, one of the most responsible generals in the BiH Army is being prosecuted and tried for four years in prison. What are these parameters, according to which are tried in this country and what are the laws that apply on one side like this and on the other side like that? I believe that this should, I say, be taken seriously, I also believe, that talks with the other party should also be held, but above all I point out that it is most important that the law is respected and that this is treated as an act of high treason, i.e. that it is sanctioned as provided for in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3806	I thank Ambassador Mehtić. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3807	Mr. President, fellow MPs, I am this Marko Amidžić representative of the HDZ in this House. From the 5th session, you know the difficulties I face in the conduct of this duty. I do not, I have accepted this mandate, but I do not have the mandate to participate in the debate and the work on matters concerning entity regulations, the competences of the BiH Presidency and I would ask the predecessor and this parliament to, individually, call General HVO, which operate under the laws of the Federation, the individual calling of the people of the HDZ who operate under the laws of the Federation, do not try to place themselves in this house. I think this House has clear powers under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and I don't think this debate has any place in the BiH House of Representatives. So, let the business run according to the entity's jurisdiction, according to the presidency's jurisdiction. The status bureau's information can be taken into account, it can be considered, the joint session can also be planned, if there are business conditions for this, but I think turning this parliament into county problems and entity problems is not good. In that case, I won't function in this House, because I don't have that mandate. Please, let us always depart from constitutional provisions and from business opportunities. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3808	I thank Ambassador Amidžić. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3809	Dear gentlemen, I have spoken before, and now I want to say publicly, that I will never consider myself happy or safe in BiH, if there is one people who is considered insecure, threatened, and I think this problem should be solved. It should be addressed in a democratic way without difficult words. What I came out to say and what I want to say, please, I am expressing my disagreement with the formulation of what the Presidency has brought. It is not a political situation in BiH, gentlemen, it is a political-security situation in the part of BiH, which is called the Federation and I ask you, I know and I am fully aware that this can have certain consequences, but I assure you, that an entity called the RS and how well it works, works very stablely in accordance with the laws adopted, both BiH and RS, and should not use the formulations of the situation in BiH. The situation in part of BiH, which is called the Federation and I ask you not to understand that one of us does not want to help solve the accumulated problems in the Federation. We want to help, but it has to be known that it's in the Federation, that someone doesn't Bog get the wrong impression that the whole of BiH is under some special security situation, it's not. One part is extremely stable and works in quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3810	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Belkić is a member of the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3811	I closely followed the discussions and thanked, of course, to all those who, I trust in good intentions, wanted to make their contribution. I won't at all, I won't be wasting my time whether it's part of it, or BiH, so Mr. Banjac isn't the problem at all, I agree whatever you say. However, I came out to say that I am very pleased and happy if the situation in any part of BiH is so extraordinary and stable and I am very glad to hear such news. I had different news that in all of BiH the situation is not good, that social problems are great, that over 400,000 people are unemployed, that our unemployment rate is 40%, that 4-5 generations will pay us back the debts we have raised, etc., but here, if you say so, I am really very grateful to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3812	I think we're done with this discussion. Is there anyone else reporting for word? So, we received information from the Bureau about knowledge, and we will assess the need and necessity with all these suggestions and initiatives on the joint topics of the session, the extraordinary sessions of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives from the aspect of the BiH situation, that is, the Federation of BiH. Thank you. We can move to three points of the agenda. 26 Ad.3. The draft law on archive construction and the BiH Archives report was received in writing and should not be specifically noted. I'm opening a debate on the draft law on archival construction. Is anyone answering for a word? We have a reporter, if necessary and necessary, can have a brief exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3813	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, member of the Presidency and representative of the Council of Ministers, I am Matko Kovačević, director of the BiH Archives, and I think that, I have been designated or asked before the Proposer, that is the BiH Presidency, that I am at your service today, that is, to give a few notes, if the chairman considers it necessary. I would just say that the importance of this matter treated by this law and the importance of the institution of which it is, this respected home, should not be spoken much. I, if you think, can give some clarifications about matter, which regulates the law and the way it was passed, I can say it in 2-3 minutes, or be prepared to answer your questions if they do.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3814	That's more favourable. Thank you. If there are questions and interventions by the MPs, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3815	I hope I won't be able to answer and thank you in advance, but I'm ready to scream if I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3816	The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission you have received in writing, if necessary oral exposure, we are at your disposal. So, is there a discussion? I am opening a discussion on the Law on the Archival Construction of BiH. Mr. Begović Muhamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3817	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I support the text of this proposed law with the exception of Articles 38 and 41. I'll dati you a brief explanation for what. In Article 38, where it stands, a small change should be made and added to the occasion when it is said: training has published professional, add “science” papers, when it comes to the Director of the Archives, and in Article 41. When it comes to the composition of the council, the archival council, these remaining three members should be installed that the Council of Ministers appoints the remaining three members of the archive council, on the proposal of the entity government, so much, otherwise I support this as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3818	I thank MP Begović, with the conclusion that our high-level lawyer, also knows that 48 hours before the meeting of this house, should be delivered in written 27 forms, the possibility of amendments, such interventions, which means, with all due respect, is difficult to intervene orally and ask for correction, a change of law. Ambassador Salih Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3819	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I went out for this pay phone to support this bill, because it's really been a long time, it's been a long time, it's been a while, it's been a while, it's been a while, it's been a while, it's been a while, it's been a long time, it's been a long time, it's been a long time, and I'd have used this opportunity here, I've asked Mr. Proposer, although the law is well-conceived, what I've read. As far as I know, he's been in the Federal Archive Act for a long time, and I don't think the House of Representatives has accepted him without being accepted at the House of Peoples or vice versa, now I can't remember. Then, too, I know that they've passed at the level of cantons law on archives and archival construction, I haven't seen much in particular here, how much these existing ones will be able to fit, but to pass laws. But in any case, I support this law and I hope that this legal act will be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3820	I thank Ambassador Kulenović. Is anyone else answering for a word? If not, we have a reporter under this law on behalf of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3821	Thank you very much. Obviously, there's support here. I would only tell Mr. Begović that he can't stand scientific papers, because we're a state-level insinuation, we're not a scientific organisation, so it's not necessary, although we have such works, but we can't make it a commitment. Secondly, we have left the possibility of what you said, that the Council of Ministers, of course from their ranks, will contact the authorities they will appoint, because both ministers, or entity ministries, are competent to name their people, therefore, a very nice and European-conceived way of protecting the interests of all there. To the latter, I must say that the latter is also insisted in the conclusions, and otherwise, that the BiH Archives has jurisdiction primarily to joint institutions and buildings that have been collected for 50 years and change, but that there is no jurisdiction, nor competences of administrative and supervisory functions, nor entity or cantonal or regional in RS archives. This means the complete autoctivity of the Archives in terms of organisational, because it's our structure of the state. Furthermore, we have our powers and agreements at the level of the profession and I can tell you, from day one, the profession has made this law, which has been in line with the legal experts of the Council of Ministers and of the Presidency, as well as yours and thus passed through the draft, respecting all your remarks in this proposal, which was accepted by the BiH Presidency. Therefore, we have professional competences and especially in interstate cooperation and coordination, but without the right of organisational or other supervision of other archives, except archives in their jurisdiction, which are archives, if they are special 28 departments, say the foreign ministry and other institutions, which are at BiH level. If you're satisfied, I wouldn't have any more.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3822	Thank you, Director. However, this is an expert opinion which does not have to be relevant for the House. The rapporteur under this law is Mr Mirko Banjac, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Please, and I also want to announce a BiH presidency member, Mr Belkić, must leave the meeting. Thank you for your participation and for contributing to today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3823	I didn't answer as a reporter, because you said the report was on the bench and I don't think there's any need for it. The Commission said what she meant. What we, as individual members of the Commission, have been saying, this moment for Parliament is not important, the Commission's position is important, and I want to speak now as an MP, if it can. Dear gentlemen, I find it really embarrassing, whether you believe it or not, very often I mention the Rules of Procedure and his violation. A fellow sitting next to me knows why I didn't respond in one situation, when the Rules of Procedure was broken again, but I saw that even then I reacted that there might be an interruption of the session and that was the reason I didn't do it, and I'm going to say justification another time. At this point, I want to react, given that we are working, so now we are still working, the work is going, I want to respond to the procedure of the legislative procedure in the adoption of the law in Parliament. The legislative procedure of this law can begin with the first reading, it is not indicated, and I should also ask you, of course, to agree with the chairman who says that the time of the amendment has passed, it is true. Gentlemen, what we are reading is not enough, we must ask ourselves, and we will have to get used to there being more laws, which you would be happy to respond to, but by the deadline and I ask you to this moment, I want to use my right as president, chairing the Constitutional and Legal Commissions, to distract you, please read the Rules of Procedure and send your amendments when you need to send them when you can react. I hope you'll do the same to us in order to do it that way. So my business intervention is just to say that this law will first be voted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of first reading, it is a member of the 95th Rules of Procedure, when the debate in the House is said to begin with the first reading, concerning the necessity of the principles on which the proposal for a law is based, according to the Commission's report. Please, gentlemen, according to the commission's report. You got the report. So, first of all, he needs a report, so you got it. The debate on members will begin immediately afterwards. So, we here and today, no matter what I have some remarks and which I'm going to say, we can vote from the first reading, and go on second immediately. It's not said here that he has to go to the next session, but please, let it be known that this is the way, that someone doesn't start working differently. When it comes to first reading, I now want to say my dilemmas, which is what and how I'm going to vote on the first question. The law was passed, among other things, and based on the transfer of the entity's powers to the Federation government's conclusions and the conclusion of the RS government. 29 In these conclusions, in the first article or attitude, or the first point of conclusion, it says, almost identical. A proposal from the Ministry of Science and Culture is accepted that the BiH Archives should exist, preserve and protect the archival structure of the former BiH until '92, because these obligations cannot be carried out by the BiH Federation Archive, the same right and obligation to protect and protect this building, the RS Archive could also have. At the same time, the BiH Archives would take over, preserve and protect the archive structure of the joint bodies of BiH, the presidency, the Council of Ministers and other joint institutions. The same conclusion stands and I will read for correctness in the conclusion of the Federation government. 1. A proposal from the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sports is accepted to propose to the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt an act on the status of the BiH Archives as a special archival institution, which preserves, protects and processes the archives of BiH until '92, at the same time the BiH Archives would take over, preserve and protect the archival structure of the joint bodies of BiH, the Presidency, Council of Ministers and other joint bodies. Identical, these are the others, who simply speak in that direction, and I can, you can get them for insight. So, in this law, in Article 1.The law on archival structure, I use my right to speak after first reading, I know what I'm saying, therefore, I beg you, because we need to be told by one and another reading and to finish it. Article 1 states: This law lays down the legal status of the BiH Archives, which continues to work as BiH institutions, based in Sarajevo, and regulates, registering, collecting, downloading, keeping, protecting, fixing, processing, conditions of use, research and publication of the archive building, from the competencies of the BiH Archives. So there's no bottom line. It was mine, to make an observation to the Commission, but the Commission has adopted as you have received, it is relevant to you. For these reasons, for extending the jurisdiction of the law, I will refrain from voting both in the first and second readings and thank you very much. I think the sign has a basis to arrange this area, but unfortunately, I haven't consulted any other people in time, perhaps, to see, but in no case am I obstructing the law, but I will refrain.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3824	Thank you, Ambassador Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3825	Dear colleagues and colleagues, like Banjac colleagues, I'm aware that what I'm going to talk about now late in this law, I'm going to vote for him, but I'd like to introduce a new practice. This last point number four needs a nice one. The funds are indeed inadmissible in one serious Parliament, to write, to implement this law, it is necessary to provide the appropriate funds in the budget that we have already adopted. So, I think it would be good, and since that 82.2 point d. article says that when the bill is submitted, it's mandatory to indicate the means, that the time has come to break with the adoption of laws that are not covered financially, and then when they come to the field, terrible dubiosis happens. I'll just say as a doctor, what happens to us in RS with the Health Insurance Act, that's the same thing in the Federation, let's just start with the state of emergency, which are supposed to be given out of Budget and then when the budget is adopted, there's no money for it, and it all falls to health 30 institutions, and that's why we have a problem. I think it would be a good idea to agree, if other colleagues think so too, that in future we do not accept any law, unless clearly indicated in it, at least in 10, 20% of the flogging, there may be orientation sums, which are needed to implement laws and sources from where these funds are going to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3826	Thank you, Ambassador Lolić. Is anyone else answering for word? Can we accept this part of the procedure, Article 95 of the first reading, to finish and if we are the newly appointed House of Representatives, or elected, the discussion in the previous Assembly of the House of Representatives has begun, but to respect the procedure. Who is it to adopt a report from the Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives on first reading? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? - 1 thank you. You don't need an entity vote. We are going to adopt the Bill on the Archival Construction of BiH. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? – 1 It is not necessary and necessary entity voting. So, for the first time, for the Commission's report, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives voted 34 MPs from 35 present – abstention 1 in this context and in the first vote and in the second vote is the same and we consider it, so the Bill on Archival Grace was adopted by the House of Representatives. It's delivered to the House of Peoples. Let's move on, point 4. It is also a rapporteur for our commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and this is a proposal for a competition law. Ad.4. The proposal for a competition law has given you the text. You have a report from the commission. Here, I'm opening a debate and a discussion on the proposal for a competition law. No interventions. We didn't get the amendments. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3827	I will now briefly inform you, as chairman of the Constitutional-Legal Commission, we have reached a point of view, as you have obtained it and in this was an amendment which I, I do not know where he is lost, I do not understand. I wrote the amendment that day and left it there on the table because it was the Commission's conclusion. Gentlemen of the Commission, say it. That's right, I don't know what it was, but what it is, it's now a new situation, I would suggest, too, Mr. Chairman, that we also adopt this law in first reading and second reading that we begin to implement in this House once as we agreed. 31 So, I beg you, just for a little while, I will talk about the first reading, where my dilemma was also on the commission, and I would like to pass on that dilemma to you, and we will see how we will resolve this situation, because in time I have submitted the amendments, and if there is something, I have given those other amendments to the law on the outside chamber, and I am afraid that it is not lost. He didn't get lost, no, no, but it was only supposed to go as a contribution to the record, so we agreed and I wrote it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3828	It says here in the text that the amendment has been submitted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3829	Well, that's it, but I'm saying now he's just complimenting me on the text, he's not in the materials, that's what I thought. It is in the Commission's report that my amendment exists. We're not gonna make a technical mistake right now, if you want to, and you can do it, I'm not gonna be mad, but then I'm gonna look for the guilty one. I want to say what the problem is. Of course I support the adoption of the Competition Law as a very important legal project, but there is one dilemma, it is that the competitive council is formed only at BiH level. I thought, as the entity's level formed an organ, that I was now not looking for its exact name, which is actually an organ, an organ that performs technical tasks, for a competitive council at entity level. Given that we at the level of the entity have trade ministries and that at the level of the entity there may be a large number of problems, from the area covered by this law, of this kind, I felt that there should be a competitive council at BiH level and a competitive council at the level of the entity, of course we respect the competences of one and the other and the co-ordination within the two councils. Viewing that an entity citizen should first complain to the competitive entity council or organisations or citizens, but rather one who has the right to file complaints and objections without having secured two-stage within the framework, the first degree is the competitive council of entities and the second degree is the competitive council of BiH. I mean, gentlemen, if we adopt without this amendment, which treats my amendment, but nothing else, we'll go over the fact and practice that we have a ministry at the level of entities and the Federation and the RS and I think we'll make a mistake. Of course, for me it's no small thing, to derivate the existence of an entity-level ministry, if that's also a reason for you to refuse or find this formal-legal reason for not having this, I'll really refrain from voting again, and if I say, anything else I consider very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3830	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Who's next to the word? The amendment has been filed. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered, it has rejected the amendment. poslanik Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3831	I would confirm the statement of my colleague Banjac about his amendment and I would ask the House to respect the fact that the amendment has indeed been submitted by him, and if, in the physical or technical sense of it now, so to speak, there is no, that he is respected as having it, because in fact our commission has respected it, or on the commission, it is concluded that, since we have not accepted his proposal as a commission, he is going with the amendment through the commission, of course, as an MP to the House and I, it seems to me that I am allowed on behalf of the 32 Commission to seek this understanding, if he praises the text of the amendment to act as if the amendment is there, and the content is actually, the content of what my colleague Banjac said. On my part, I would add that the reasons why we accepted the previous counterpart Banjac, which could not have been something of an organisational nature in the proposal of counterpart Banjac, could not have avoided the legal implications of this entity council's organisational accommodation, and for this reason, the commission refused, because this law, one of the laws that requires our inclusion in the Council of Europe, and it assumes, in fact, the single market of BiH and for us, for our understanding, would of course not have been able to find a formal legal solution, which would not affect the legal structure, so to say the law or the solution that the law offers. But of course, by doing so, I do not exclude the right of the MPs to think differently and to make a different statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3832	Thank you, Ambassador Neimarlija. Who's next to the word? We have a report from the Commission on constitutional law, first reading and we can vote on first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? I don't think an entity vote is necessary. We also have a second reading, which includes the amendment submitted to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Who's in favour of the Competition Law? We all know what this is about. A member of the commission made it quite clear, so we know in principle what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3833	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3834	You have a report from the Commission, you have a proposal for an amendment. Who's to adopt the amendment of the Banjac MP? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? So, the results of the vote for the amendment of MP Banjac, of the 35 MPs present, were 22 - for 9 MPs and abstention 3. I'm sorry, I understand your amendment hasn't been adopted. We can move on to the full adoption of the law, or the proposal for a competition law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? - Nobody. Who's being held back? So on the draft law on archive construction and the BiH Archives - of the 36 MPs present, I apologize for the competition, of the 36 MPs present voted 28 – abstention 7. We find that the BiH Competition Act has been passed. Thank you. Moving to point 5. 33 Ad.5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Debt Act is the rapporteur of the Financial Affairs Commission. The report was delivered in writing. We don't have an amendment in the past 48 hours, 48 hours, yes, the first reading is done. This is the bill. I'm opening a debate. First reading, intervention on site. I'm opening a debate on first reading. There's no one here. So we can put the Commission's report on the vote, which prepared the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Who's restrained? - There's no one. A unanimous 36 MPs voted in favour and thus the first reading, the commission's report is complete. We can move to point 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3835	There's no other reading, just one. [[You can't hear it.]] Well, clearly, we're going to another reading, respecting the procedure is not the problem. Ad.6. The draft law on associations and foundations of BiH The rapporteur is the Constitutional Legal Commission, that's the first reading, right? We have a report from the commission in writing. I'm opening a debate on the commission's report. Here you go. Ambassador Banjac. Dear gentlemen, I don't see any reason why both the Foreign Debt Act and the Association and Foundations Act today will not complete the first and second reading for the following reasons. Since there were no amendments to this law, what are we going to wait for? There are no more 48 hours, because only those whose amendments have been denied have the right and one who reconciles two or more amendments. Since there's nothing to reconcile them with. I don't see any reason why we're not finishing what we end up with today.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3837	Thank you for your intervention, Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3838	I don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3839	It can, can, can decide another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3840	Next, I ask you gentlemen, let's do what we do, and just don't say that we're sitting here today, and as far as the law is concerned, I'm going to say something about this point 34 agenda, with the chairman having concluded that point, I was really going to intervene at that point, but that's what it is, at least let's finish this, although it won't be any problem ending up at the next session. When it comes to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, I don't know if there are any representatives of the UJES-EIDA, there are, and they had one, they delivered one in writing, and I think it came within the deadline, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3841	It didn't come.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3842	I'm sure the letter came because I had a copy of that letter coming to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3843	Neither your amendment nor that one has arrived.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3844	You didn't understand. How is it possible for me to get a letter from JUESEIDA by fax and it didn't come to Parliament at the same time, and I have that letter, I'm just saying, and believe me, it is and I'm going to show it to you and I don't see the reason. I don't want to hurt anyone here or say anything. Please, let's take this seriously. I'll just tell you what's going on and it's more important what's going on than whether we're going to talk about it now or not. Here's the problem, gentlemen, there's a good change in Article 4. There's a business activity of associations and foundations, and for that reason, we see that there's a technical problem here too, so I'd like to ask you now to know that there's intervention in writing, which would be a good way to consider and we should adopt the law here today in the first reading and leave, too, a second reading, so we can find this document and do it in a quality way, and I think that the law should be absolutely supported and adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3845	We're in position, or at point 5. This is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act, we can accept the proposal that the House decide immediately on the second reading and adoption of the bill and end today with that agenda point. Who is it to adopt the Commission's report, first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act? First reading, and we'll vote again. Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? 36 MPs for. Thank you – 35. It is a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act Who is for? Thank you. 35 Does anyone mind? Someone restrained? So, with 35 votes, we passed the bill on amendments and amendments to the Foreign Debt Act. We accept the proposal. So the first reading is the draft law on BiH associations and foundations. You shall have a constitutional and legal report from the Commission in writing with a call for this meeting. Please, I'm opening a discussion. First reading. It remains possible to intervene with amendments, i.e. to consider the proposal, with amendments in writing. Who is therefore, for the Commission's first reading report? Thank you for the intervention. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? We can also say 35 votes – unfortunately we did not vote – 32 were for 35 present, so 3 MPs did not raise their hands practically. We find that we have adopted the first reading of the draft law on BiH associations and foundations. Moving to point 7. Ad.7. Agreement establishing and protecting investments between BiH and the Republic of Greece, in order to give consent to ratification You have an agreement ahead of you, we have a representative of the Council of Ministers. Report, that's right, for economic and financial affairs. I am opening a discussion on a proposal to ratify this agreement. Is anyone there? Thank you. There isn't. Who is to adopt and confirm this agreement on determining and protecting investments between BiH and the Republic of Greece, to give consent to ratification. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone abstentioned? Thank you. Together, 33 MPs voted in favour of an agreement on determining and protecting investments between BiH and the Republic of Greece. We find that we have adopted this agreement and completed its ratification. Ad.8. The social security agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, also, with the aim of giving consent to ratification by the Economic and Financial Commission. questions, I apologize for the outside work she gave her report. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? We have 33 MPs who voted out 33 for the Social Security Treaty and the Republic of Croatia. 36 Ad.9. A report on the BiH Financial Institution's management of the BiH Financial Audit Office for 2000 has provided you with a report. There is a word, on behalf of the Commission on Economic and Financial Affairs, Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3846	Somewhere in last session, the Finance and Budget Commission has gained insight into the work of this audit office. This office is newly established and I believe that this parliament should provide full support for the work of this office, and in accordance with the law on audits, with international standards or... a declaration. I believe that in order to carry out the legal obligations that this institution should create a modern institution, in line with the generally accepted standards of review and should be a fully political and economically independent institution, while performing its tasks, and that audit should also enable the BiH Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of Terms and Information for the efficient management and control of public funds, through the process of reviewing and checking, based on audit reports and to increase the trust of the domestic and foreign public in BiH institutions, through the adequateness of financial control and transparency of financial transactions. What does that mean? It means that we also need as Parliament and the Council of Ministers to provide this new institution to live up to international standards and public needs in the performance and transparency of these affairs. In the first row, I think it should provide, in addition to what I've listed, I particularly underline the Ministry of Treasury, because it is closest to financial business, therefore, it should provide support. I personally provide that support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3847	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. Here you go, MP Đedović. Here we also have the auditor-general of the BiH institutions, Mr Miletić. So you can ask questions and get relevant answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3848	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus your attention on point 3.3. where it says: this analysis identifies the problems, which primarily relate to the following, incomplete and insufficiently defined regulations at the level of the joint institutions of BiH, result in the application of different regulations, which makes the work of the Audit Office significantly difficult. I'm curious about what the regulations are and what area they're in and what's up with us to remove it from working. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3849	I thank Ambassador Đedović. Does anyone else have an answer for your word? Is there a need for Mr Miletić to answer this request from Đedović. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3850	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I am Ivan Miletić, the BiH institution's general auditor. On the question of the honourable representative, here we are immediately below on page 8. gave the answer. So it writes precisely in order to eliminate the problems observed, the following should be taken: so we said that the Treasury Ministry should implement the Treasury Act as soon as possible, i.e. the adoption of a final plan and accounting rules. Then, the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Treasury shall clearly define the application of entity regulations relating to taxes, contributions, wages, financial operations and other regulations, in the form of rules or instructions. In certain institutions, entity regulations are applied, depending on the interest of the institution. Where there are smaller taxes, for example for employees' fees, the laws of one entity, where pay taxes are lower, apply the regulations of another entity. The Council of Ministers should therefore, by one act, prescribe a way of applying those rules. Then, the key law that this home should adopt as soon as possible is the law on the purchase of goods and services and the admission of works. Such a law is excellent in the Federation, and I think it is very urgent to adopt it at BiH level, because under this law it can be quite possible, to say, to put an end to certain illegalities in the procurement or concessions, especially major jobs or works. In addition, the Council of Ministers should be in charge of calling all BiH institutions to adopt the following internal acts, rules or regulations, depending on how they will be called on the use of the vehicle, on the use of mobile phones, the rules of representation, accounting, rules of wages, because they do not have all their own rules on salaries and rules on the lease of business premises, this would significantly narrow down the possibilities of illegal business in these institutions. I would point out, probably that's what you're most interested in is that right now our team auditors, we have three teams that have one senior auditor and two junior auditors and are currently staying in three ministries, the largest departments from the cost and use of the budget, and they're according to our risk analysis leading, it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Trade. I believe that from an opportunity of two to two and a half months from now, we will present to you this report of their work. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3851	I thank the chief auditor, Mr. Miletić. Any other questions, any suggestions, any objections? If not, who is it to adopt a business report for 2000, is the report of the BiH Financial Audit Office? Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't either. With 34 votes, we adopted a business report for 2000, and this report by the Office for Audit Fines. the business of the BiH institution. Thank you for that. We're going to point 10. 38 Ad. A report on the work of the Commission to consider the status of naturalised persons after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the BiH Constitution You have the report on the work of the review committee ahead of you. I'm opening a discussion and discussion on this report. Is anyone answering for a word? If he doesn't, I'm closing the hearing. We can move on to an act of voting. Who is to adopt a report on the Commission's work to discuss the status of naturalised persons after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the BiH Constitution. Who's in? Do you mind? There isn't. Anybody got any abstentions? 1 abstention. Thank you. So of the 33 MPs, 32-1 voted, he was abstentioned. In this regard, we conclude that the Commission's report on the work to consider persons naturalised after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the BiH Constitution has been adopted and we move to point 11. Ad. 11. The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat If there is a need for broader explanations, the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH may. We have considered and proposed for reasons of flexibility and the possibility of functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat such a proposal. Is there any desire or will to discuss this issue? There isn't. Thank you. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3852	I'm sorry, I've been looking for that material, but remember I'll speak, there's the secretary for the commission's work, one professional face at a time, and they're treated like executives. I'm interested in the answer they're handling and on which basis it was brought and whether it's really a rational solution for each commission to have one professional face, estimating that we haven't had almost anyone yet. I'm not saying that in other resolutions we don't need to rationalise jobs, but perhaps consider a proposal, at least in order to rationalise, to go after one man for two commissions. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3853	It is only Đedović's MP on the line of thought and the House of Representatives' College, together with the House of Peoples, that we will take a step-by-step in the development of this organisation and systematization, the reception of new workers, and in this sense there is certainly a proposal for rationalisation and that a secretary of the commission is doing jobs for several committees, it is certainly very rational behaviour and solution. So there's absolutely no possibility of an uncontrollable shriveled reception happening, and by some we have two commissions. So we'll be keeping an eye on this rationalization proposal. Is anyone else answering for a word about this act? Thank you. Who is it to adopt this proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat? Thank you. 39 Does anyone mind? He's got a line held up? With 34 votes for, of the 34 MPs present today, we have reached a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. I suggest, given that we've done one part of the job, a 30-minute break, for justifiable reasons. A half-hour break. ...this break, point 12. [[PAUZA]] Ad.12. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations I was informed, the MPs' clubs sat down, have one proposal, will be presented by Mr. Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3854	We failed to agree on the appointment of these committees, it was proposed to leave it for the next assembly. However, since the Council of Europe Conference is on Monday, there is a delegation that our delegation has to adopt, then it is agreed, I thought the president would explain what it is and I will only explain the candidates. However, it has been agreed there, now on one occasion, whether an extended college or not, it is agreed to form a temporary commission, which will be on Monday, a delegation, which will be present on Monday. In that delegation, I would like to propose to Mr Momir Tošić, Mrs Mediha Filipović, Mr Sead Avdić and Mr Ivo Lozančić, this fifth member would be proposed by the House of Peoples. Here, I will repeat once again: Mrs Mediha Filipović, Mr Momir Tošić, Mr Sead Avdić and Mr Ivo Lozančić, we have made sure that there is representation, now this fifth member should be Goran Turjačanin from the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3855	Here you go, Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3856	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I must respond to this. It is inadmissible that after six months we almost failed to elect our people into these delegations, and we are all talking about Europe. Namely, what's going on? The Alliance is trying to behave in the legislative authority completely as an executive authority. The Rules of Procedure are very clear here, and here, in fact, the technical issue is a political problem without any need. I'll read Article 145. Before the appointment of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, who will participate in international parliamentary assemblies or other international institutions, the College will in coordination with the College of the House of Peoples, determine how many members must be elected from both homes and that is just the task of the College and not this. The College will seek to find a proportionate form, underlining, which reflects the overall composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and please, dear and respected gentlemen, respect the Rules of Procedure and there will be no problems, otherwise the Party of Democratic Action will react differently. We will report in writing to all international institutions in BiH and in Europe how the Alliance treats the Constitution and 40 to the Rules of Procedure and the best evidence that we are right is the proposal of this delegation now of five members where there are none of those who have ten MPs in these bodies, which are the most numerous parties, together with the Alijans in this House. I can't really not express my surprise that someone could have come out here and proposed this five-man delegation without having a member of the strongest political party in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3857	Thank you, Ambassador Brki. Replica Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3858	The discussion on the formation of these delegations was last completed and was agreed on by an extended college attended by the presidents of the MPs' clubs. Mr. Brk, the president of the SDA Club was not present at that college in an extended manner and did not present his proposals. So they didn't even consider it, and now Mr. Dr. was at that meeting, and he didn't have any concrete proposals either, and that's why we came to some kind of solution because people have to go on Monday, we came into a situation to make this proposal, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3859	Thank you, Ambassador. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3860	It is even possible that the representative of the SDA was not at the College, but that does not justify the College not respecting the Rules of Procedure. If you would never come to that college, do as your Rules of Procedure, it's our place there. It's our business, it's not a matter of college, who's gonna be on which team of this house in those delegations. You say, or conclude, this home should conclude, here and there should be a representative and that party, you absolutely should not be interested in the name, we will determine the name of our party who will be in which delegation. You won't be determining here. We will adopt your names as well. We will not determine who will be from the SDP, nor will you determine who will be from the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3861	Thank you, Ambassador Brki. Is anyone else answering for word? If we have exhausted the discussions, I ask you, any failures in the appointment of this temporary delegation we can correct nothing has been completed, nor has the act been completed. There are many arguments and reasons for such a structure of a delegation that would be at next week's session. So, there are arguments for and against, with all due respect to what stands out as an observation of clear proportions and percentages, but objectively I agree with you that political configuration election results are a fundamental criterion for participation in delegations of international character. I beg you, we can interpret the Rules of Procedure, but who is it to accept this proposal. Mr. Ambassador Neimarlija. I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3862	I'm holding this so important a question that I expect you to understand what I'm interventioning after my colleague Brk. In fact, I am afraid, this appointment of 41 committee members took a long time, unseriously long time, given that the Rules of Procedure has been fully specified as they are elected. In fact, they are not elected, but named from parties, which won the largest number of votes. The technique, the clean technique, technically fully solved and this composition of the delegation, should be performed, I'm afraid it's not a confirmation of one relationship to the selection of committees, which characterized this so far their unnamed non-named and therefore I would suggest the chairman, with all due respect to the fact that we are finally tired, that of course we need a delegation. The SDA MPs respect the argument that there is a uniform fact that the SDA and SDP together have the largest number of MPs. I am not telling you this, believing that the world will change, that BiH will enter the Council of Europe if it is in this delegation that will now go on Monday and an MP from the SDA. Of course, I'm aware of what that really means, but there's a psolnik here from an earlier call, and I would remind you that on these issues not only wastes time, but loses precious energy and replaces, in fact, I'd say, false problems for real problems. In the previous SDP meeting, he had four MPs and, although this Rules of Procedure did not apply, the Rules of Procedure did not commit to technical inclusion in terms of the representation of the most numerous parties. Members of the SDP, there were 4 Bogić, the Club... left the House of Representatives session because their MP was not involved in the selection of a delegation for the Council of Europe, and they had no right, even if this Rules of Procedure were valid. Now that we have this Rules of Procedure, people are really responsible for this inadmissible delay, and with that, I am bothered by the Commission's proposal, which simply fails the principle or request of the Rules of Procedure, testifying, in fact, or at least to me, that even now we have not chosen a commission motivated by a single relationship which is mildly said to be a failure of the requirements of the psalmist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3863	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. An MP and chairing Dr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3864	Allow me to inform the MPs in a few sentences. We, gentlemen, have respected article 145. Rules of Procedure. A joint meeting was held between the two colleagues, the College of this House and the College of the House of Peoples, and we have established proportionately, therefore, as many as the home chooses from the ranks of its members in the mentioned delegations, which you have on the list. Today we choose those who represent this home, and the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, consist of those members we choose and members elected by the House of Peoples, according to the established scheme, which was at the extended College of this House and where everyone agreed on this scheme that you all have, or that you have received. Thus, the College finished its work. What's left is to get the clubs in line, because it's the clubs that need to, according to the criteria set by the College, to determine who's going to represent them. Two clubs from the RS, please, what I'm saying is that we understand the conditionality of having finished their part of the work long ago and we, according to established criteria, on both colleges and on an extended college of this house, have finished our part of the duties of the Members of Parliament. As far as these two clubs are concerned, we can complete this point today, select all the commissions, so much so that we know who hasn't finished their part of the job. The college of this home finished their part of the job and these two clubs from RS finished their part of the job. Obviously, the problems aren't there. That's a fact you should know, please, so that we don't call the College or someone from the College, which part of the job is 42 done. The rest is to get the clubs in line. It's really been a long time since the Federation of BiH clubs didn't agree and I'm asking you, let's try today, if there's no solution for all. The Council of Europe is soon, we must have a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe, I repeat, a delegation made up of members from this House and members from the House of People, according to the criteria you have and with which we all agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3865	I'll be brief, this is the second time that on the agenda you have failed to leave this agenda point. I believe it's a kidnapping for some good part in that delegation and someone can't guess, I don't know who it is. For principle reasons, I will not vote for this temporary delegation, because it was possible to choose regular delegations. I'm not for such improvisations as it is for us to do, always do some improvisation, or let delegations be chosen, or let it not go, so Bosnia will not fail unless a temporary delegation goes. This is how ad-hok solutions will keep us going and we have the opportunity to solve it in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3866	Thank you, Ambassador Zaćiragić. Ambassador Ramiz Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3867	Please, I've just been, let's call college, I'm the vice president of the SDA MPs' club. We found out there that the Rules of Procedure were not respected. So, together they realized, whatever it was, he was the president of this assembly, he was Mr. Bogičević, he was this gentleman who was now going out for a pay phone, I was the head of the clubs and we're together, and that's what we have to say is that the Rules of Procedure is not respected. Then press the problem that a parliamentary delegation should go on Monday, then we said, let's make that solution. Here you should say, the proposal was made by a gentleman from the Alliance, leaving what the SDS belongs to. I'm surprised Mr. Banjac didn't have any objections to the Rules of Procedure this time. So let's not go there, at least where it's clear, that there's overvotes here and I'm not going to discuss it, but let's not at least in the part where the Rules of Procedure is clear, crystal clear, which we're making our own lives very difficult for ourselves. We said that the Rules of Procedure have been respected, it is one of the conclusions there, which should be proposed and this parliamentary delegation formed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3868	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Can we speak out on this proposal for a temporary delegation of the House of Representatives? I ask you, the session is next week, there will be a delegation of five people as far as is planned and it is simple for one session in that sense we can have that degree of tolerance. Who is for this composition of the delegation? Who's against it? Abstained? – 4 43 I beg you who is in favour of the Federation of BiH? Thank you. Who's in favor of RS space? So the entity vote also showed that the delegation was adopted. So, of the 35 people present, 23 voted in the first round of voting -- against it was 7 and abstentioned. po to the entitet, from the Federation for 12 and RS for 11 and I find the decision on the Interim Delegation to the Council of Europe. Thank you for this tolerance. We can move to point 13. Ad.13. The selection of members of the committees at home. For the reason of the departure of some MPs to other duties particularly in the Council of Ministers, they have obtained a prerequisite to implement and propose the completion of the commission, on the proposal of the Members of the Party for BiH - MP Nedžad Šašivarević is relieved of the duties of members of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. Mr Nedžad is elected a member of the Finance Commission and Budget which will also be the chairman of this committee. The new MP Mustafa Cuplov is elected as a member of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and the Commission for Transport and Communications. At the proposal of the Democratic Progress Party of the SND DSP and SPRS, the following changes should be made in the committees: Mr Željko Mirjanić, members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission are relieved, while Mr Željko Mirjanić is elected member of the Transport and Communications Commission. Mr Željko Bilbija is relieved of the duties of a member of the Transport and Communications Commission and is elected member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Also, vacant seats in commissions, following the resignation of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija in the Commission for Foreign Affairs and the Commission for Finance and Budget, are proposed to replace him as a whole, Boro Bjelobrk. Instead of Muharem Imamović, Mr Jozo Križanović was appointed and Mrs Branislav Ferzanović was appointed instead of Joza Križanović. Muharem Imamović in the Administrative Commission in this context, Branislav Ferzanović, takes office in the Administrative Commission. Ivo Andrić Lužanski left, no longer a member of the three commissions, it is proposed that Marko Amidžić take his place at the Foreign Affairs Commission and Beriz Belkić, who went on second duty at the Finance Commission and Budžet, we told the chairman of the Transport and Communications Commission, normally Nedžad Šašivarević. Here's what you heard, this proposal, based on the principles we once adopted. Here you go. I read it. Mustafa Cuplov is elected a member of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and the Commission for Transport and Communications. Who's in favour of these adjustments? Do you mind? Someone restrained? – 1 44 There are 35 – for 34 and 1 abstentions, which means that we have also adopted a decision to amend the members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives committees and ultimately parliamentary issues. Ad.14. The parliamentary questions and answers have been delivered today five answers to parliamentary questions. First of all, on the issues of MPs Tihomir Gligorić, Omer Filipović and Branislav Lolić. Also, two questions were answered by MP Zoran Spasojević, two more of his questions were not answered and we did not get an answer to Mr Muhamed Begović and Abdurahman Malkić's question. Are there any new parliamentary questions or new suggestions? Ambassador Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3869	A little though, let's think about the future and what we live on. Through the means of information, I heard and saw that the state delegation, the Resord Ministry, visited the “Vitezit” Fabrica in Knights, the factory of the dedicated industry, in order to start production, solve the problem. I welcome that, and at the same time I would ask the Council of Ministers what he thinks, what he's planning, what he's up to with the same factory of the dedicated industry in Konjic, and I would like to have that question answered, and I would also ask, at the same time, that such a delegation visit Tufar. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3870	I thank Ambassador Butorović. Nejad's a chess player.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3871	I'm going to be very brief, and I think I'm going to get an answer right away. For which the president of the House of Representatives did not vote on the proposal of the Party's MPs' Club for BiH to form an independent committee to appoint the culprit for the situation over the proposed 16 laws declared by the High Representative. I'm asking you, Mr. President, that's what you had to do in the Rules of Procedure. What aren't you up to? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3872	You can give an immediate answer, of course. First of all, the Rules of Procedure, as told by the High Representative, or Deputy High Representative, has not been fully specified in the procedure for the adoption of the laws on a provisional basis, and in this context it is expressed both in discussions and in the findings that such misunderstandings are possible. If we are looking for an interpretation of as many of the Venice Commission, the OHR legal department, and if it can happen that there are simply unconformed positions under Articles 104 or 105, I do not think that this is sufficient reason to form a committee to review the justification of the Council of Ministers' behaviour, in terms of defining the members of the Rules of Procedure under which he proposed these 16 laws. Let's move on. The apostle is pleased with the answer, the smile on his face shows. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3873	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you have also said parliamentary suggestions, so I would take the opportunity to do so, but before that, I would like to ask a parliamentary question. I'm speaking to the Council of Ministers, with a question. Is there any possibility of reopening the border crossing of Hukiæ Brdo near Velika Kladuja? A brief explanation. The latest decision and a combination of moves at the federal and state level, including the closure of the border crossing at the Great Claudou. I want to believe that most of the present governments have a geographical relationship with Klamuda – Bihać and Klamuda – Karlovac and Klamuda – Zagreb, and in terms of the economy in Klamuda, primarily on Agrokomerc and Saniteks engines, they are fully dependent on the economy from Croatia, i.e. the west and monthly costs in Agrokomerc alone, according to surface information, have about 150,000 marks of additional circulation over Bihac. In addition, the road or Lika highway is completely closed during the tourist season for most of the day, so that vehicles cannot, the cargo vehicles cannot traffic and are forced to search the surrounding road for 300 km if they go through Izečić. If they're going over Karlovac, it's 10 kilometers away and it's very easy to avoid, so it allows traffic to take place daily. So transport increases by two days, costs are enormous. The transition was taken over a month ago by the State Border Service and the reasons behind it do not stand, because then it goes with complete mistrust and apri-ori towards the state border service. As far as the frequency is concerned, it is the most frequent border crossing in the area and a daily load has been charged, that is, 50 trucks of goods. I, on behalf of the people who live in that space, ask to return that border crossing, as it has functioned so far. That's a question and I have one suggestion, please understand. I'd ask everyone when we go into this room to turn off the cell phones, everyone, so that we don't get what's going on around distractions or when we've had a story here, his cell phone rings, and I think it's inappropriate and we can discipline so much ourselves. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3874	Thank you for this intervention and suggestion. Parliamentary issues in writing should be submitted with a statement of whether or not an answer is sought in writing or in the form of an amendment. poslanik Mehtić. Article 125. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3875	I have two parliamentary questions for this occasion. First, in the last issue, the weekly magazine “Ljiljan” published an article on the difficulties facing potential returnees of Kotorsko settlement near Doboj. With all the problems facing these people, the most important thing in this article is the behavior of a UNHCR representative, a certain Kejt, who in an unequivocal way interpreted the privacy of a woman who usurped a Bosniak tripartite whose ground floor holds cattle. The same UNHCR representative said that if the owner of the house wants to return, he must provide other accommodation and pay rent to the grandmother in question. I ask that the truthists of these allegations, related to the illegal conduct of the UNHCR representative, be examined for a simple reason, if this is true, then these people really don't have any chance of returning 46 to their homes, or we all don't have a chance to implement this Annex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. The second question, at one of the first sessions of this parliament, was the talks on the establishment of assembly committees, including the establishment of a commission for relations with religious communities. I'm interested in how far it's come with that commission and whether it's working on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-19-0.u3876	I thank Ambassador Mehtić. Is there anyone else to answer for? I would end up pointing out this session, if it were extremely difficult and conflicting at times, that democracy implies procedure. If the procedure is not fully specified sufficiently clear and designed and objectively can be expected this course of the session, but we will try to avoid inaccuracies and what is called, considering the law on a provisional basis declared by OHR. Thank you for hanging out with me today, and thank you for your correctness. The seat is finished at 6 p.m.
