ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3188	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, with the view of the College to forgive us for this delay of one hour from the scheduled start of the meeting of the House of Representatives, which was an objective nature, for the reasons of further consultations and the session of the extended House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I am opening the 2nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, the meeting called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, OHR representatives, OSCE representatives and representatives of the Phare. Representatives of public information funds were also invited. I warmly welcome and thank everyone for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. The session is attended by 42 MPs and we have a quorum to make the important decisions of this house. Since two MPs failed to take an oath in the past session, I urge Mrs Mediha Filipović and Mr Ibrahim Đedović to take an oath. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Congratulations to the MPs. In all, 42 MPs took an oath. [[Applause]] We have the entire quorum, which envisions the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Gentlemen, you have also received a draft agenda in the invitation. As regards the draft agenda, I am obliged on behalf of the College to make a few observations and reviews. Three meetings of the Colleges and three meetings of the Colleges were held in preparation for this session, i.e. A college with the presidents of the clubs of parliamentary parties, which function in the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We had our final consultations yesterday night. At these meetings, two extensive consultations of MPs' club presidents were held under the House Commission, in line with the House of Representatives' Psolovnik. Also, a schedule for the chairmanship of committees has been agreed between clubs. As a result of these consultations, here you have at the last minute on the benches of the assembly today, received a proposal for the composition of the permanent commissions, which is the material given for the second item of the proposed agenda of our session. Today, you also received material for the third item of the agenda of our session, which is the Information Council of Ministers on issues so-called. Balkan syndrome. I have also been informed from the Office that the material for item 4 of the proposed agenda, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of criteria for professionalisation of MPs, has been sent through the fax. I hereby open a debate on the draft agenda you received in the invitation and, at the same time, announce that the Party for BiH, in writing, has submitted a request to extend the agenda, or to supplement the agenda, with the subject of the mandate of the Council of Ministers by the BiH Presidency. Does the party MP for BiH want to explain? Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3189	I am Beriz Belkić, president of the Party for BiH Parliament Club, I welcome you all. The truth is, through me as club president, the Party for BiH took part in all these meetings Mr Avdić was talking about and that we agreed on what I would now try to argue. And the basic reason why we're trying to put this on the agenda today is because our country hasn't had a government in two and a half months. On 23 January 2001, the BiH Assembly won the BiH Presidency Decision, dated 18.01, which appointed Mr. Martin Raguž as prime minister. According to the Rules of Procedure of Article 115 of this Assembly, the College shall immediately convene the Assembly and determine on that decision, or confirm it either not to confirm or how the term is used to approve or not to approve it. In the reasons why we should not talk about this today, and we do not declare ourselves, there has been talk that it has been too short a time, that the candidate who has been established by the Presidency needs more time to consult, but I do not think that the programme has been submitted to the Presidency and that this programme is discussed in the consultations that Mr. Martin Raguž is leading, I suppose and, for the Party for BiH, these are not arguments in relation to the need for this state to finally get the government. It also seems to us that this is a good opportunity to check whether Mr. Martin Raguž has a majority in this home, or whether he will be confirmed or not. That's the basic reason, basically, not to elaborate any further. The state needs a government. We do not see any procedural obstacles to the fact that this item of the agenda today is not included in the agenda and that the House of Representatives declares it. And when it comes to candidates, I can inform you that a group of parties, who believes that there is a majority in this House in the House of Representatives, also has a candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3190	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Banjac answered his word. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3191	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, on behalf of the SDS Parliament Club, because of the constitutional legal position of the House of Representatives, I request a download of the agenda of information on the so-called Balkan syndrome, not considering it not to be discussed. The reason for the removal is the constitutional and legal position of the House of Representatives and when conditions are created, we will accept that this point is on the agenda. I would like the MPs to make a statement about this by voting and a brief remark on Mr. Belkić's allegations. Bosnia and Herzegovina really doesn't have a government, she has a council of ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3192	Thank you, Mr. Banjac, Mr. lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3193	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished ministers, dear guests. As far as I could understand, Mr Belkić remains at his position, that is, at the request of the Party for BiH, to place trust in today's union, i.e. a vote of confidence or no trust for Mr Raguž, but I want to warn of Article 115. Rules of Procedure, which states: when the House adopts a decision to appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the College will immediately convene a meeting, in accordance with Article 5(4). The BiH Constitution. I don't think the College did it and that as it was decided last night at the College, the College will sit down for the next few days and decide to call the House of Representatives' meeting on this issue. Thank you very much, and in the end, I would like to point out that we support the proposed agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3194	Thank you, Agent lužanski. Is anyone else answering for word? We have two proposals to correct the agenda. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3195	The esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, esteemed guests, the coalition's proposal, whose president I am, and this coalition has a long name, which comes down to PDPSNZDSPSNSDSPRS, also suggests that this agenda item, which is called information on issues related to Balkan syndrome, be downloaded until further notice. First of all, such a serious thing, such as this problem, could not come to the benches of the MPs on the same day that this is being discussed. If we're going to take this as a formal matter, then it's enough that the Council of Ministers has provided us with written information and we'll get to know each other. This is a much more serious problem than it was presented here. I would just remind you that in the RS, a few scientific gatherings were held on the subject, that the Academy of Science of the Republic of Slovenia formed a commission that should all of this be united, so far research and effects, and when we create conditions to seriously discuss this topic and that the Assembly brings certain conclusions, then we can put this point, this information as a point of the agenda. 4 This club also believes that, the conditions for discussion of the chairman have not matured, and it would really be good to leave it open for another seven to ten days, so that even within this second group, which creates most of the conditions to make a majority possible. There's no majority of them now. Some programs and platforms of these five or four parties, which make up this club, were not discussed at all, and they are looking for one such analysis. So it is a matter of the next period as to whether the other majority will be created, and also giving the current mandate the possibility to create a serious programme with which to go out, so MPs will assess whether they will vote for it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3196	Thank you, Ambassador Dokući. Is anyone else answering for word? We can feel that the discussion on the agenda is over and we can approach the statement on the proposals. According to Rule 51 of our Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to vote for the proposed amendments or corrections to the agenda and in the order in which the proposals are made. So, Mr Belkić, the Party for BiH, is seeking an extension of the agenda for the point of consideration of the candidate proposed by the Prime Minister's Presidency, or the mandate of the Council of Ministers. In that sense, I'm putting the motion to a vote. Here you go, Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3197	I am obliged to point out that, before this session was held as a College, we had a brief meeting with the current chairman of the Council of Ministers and the appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers, and our position was common to, that the chairman of the Bureau, that within seven days he would come out, mean, with his proposal and that he would ask us to hold a session within seven days and we would declare to him the chairman of the Council of Ministers. He expressed his view to us in the College as well as the public that he needed seven more days to complete those consultations, because it is still very serious things and it is not as a matter of mere voting, raising hands, whether or not we are for or not, I think that the correctness would be imposed, that we leave the candidate for another seven days, because he asked for it, because I don't see how we can plead on the proposal of the Council of Ministers without him. I note, that he did not receive a call for the agenda of the session at which the agenda item is, meaning, the vote or election of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. I think about such a serious thing that a man finds out from the papers on the way, I don't think it would be correct. That's what he's doing, and that's what he's doing when he says you have that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3198	Thank you, Mr. Ljubić. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3199	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow ambassadors, distinguished guests, in connection with Mr Belkić's proposal, following Mr Ljubić's intervention, I am obliged to say a few words. In fact, we find it absolutely unacceptable that a man who has received the presidency's mandate to form a Council of Ministers, knowing the demands of a large number of political parties, which in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have 5 respectable powers, are not present here, while the Council of Ministers is fully present. It is perfectly clear to us that, Mr. Chairman, the current chairman of the Council of Ministers is not ready to come out with his concept today, that is clear to us. However, we expected that at today's session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, who received the mandate again from the Presidency, he would find it appropriate to inform us of the course of the consultations, more so as to spread such serious things in the public, which do not indicate that we can rightly address this problem. The SDP is well-known, and it stands at the point that this has been a waste of time. We know that, given the circumstances, since there is obviously no willingness, nor will there be a man who has been given the presidency's mandate to address us today. It is perfectly clear to us that we will not be able to complete and end Mr Raguž's candidacy at today's session of Parliament. I am obliged to inform the public, fellow BiH Presidency, the political party, in the extreme case of the international public, that Prime Minister Raguž is a man who we believe cannot form the Council of Ministers, in a way that guarantees that this country can be drawn from the situation it is in. As the largest party in this House of Representatives, I want to clearly inform the public once again, given that, during the consultation, SDP's possible participation in a new Council of Ministers, I want to inform the local and international public and this home that the SDP as the party with the largest number of mandates is expected to entrust the presidency to the SDP man with the mandate for forming a government, or the Council of Ministers to come before this home. This is what we expect and, very clearly, we want to make it clear that any council of ministers in which the mandate comes from the HDZ, or the SDS, or the SDA, as well as ministers from these parties are political combinations in which the SDP of BiH will not participate. I am obliged to say this for the reason that lately it has been speculated and manipulated with the concept of a representative government, and so it is trying to gain time, in which it would eventually be participated by the SDP. I want the public domestic, international and your fellow MPs and MPs to inform you that any planning, which includes the stratification of the SDP in the Council of Ministers, which is based on the principle, which is proposed, is unacceptable and if it takes time for us to suffer in such a way, I just want to inform you that this is a waste of time, and I am responsible for saying that BiH and both its entities and all three peoples will have no greater chance because we have not ended this today, in a way that we have been proposing to publicise for a long time. I thank you and Mr. Chairman, that was our comment on, as your deputy, a small intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3200	Thank you, Ambassador Lagumdžija. We have two replicas. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3201	Dear gentlemen, since the SDS is mentioned here, that I would also like to inform the public that we do not think of Mr Lagumdžija that we are entering a relationship where the SDP is and I am using this opportunity to say let it end in a democratic and constitutional way. I won't, nor will the SDS make any kind of interference, but I also use this opportunity to inform the local and international public about the real problems of the secondary ones. No Niko here will say that there are no conditions for the constitutional work of the 6 House of Representatives. Dear gentlemen, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as referred to in Article 4. The constitution consists of two homes and it is the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. You all know very well that the House of the Peoples has not yet been formed. You all know that the reason is not to form a people's home in the Federation of BiH. You know very well that the RS has done everything it has to do and we wait for it to happen in the Federation. I call on you on this occasion to do what is possible earlier in the Federation, to create a constitutional basis for the work of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not to seem to turn problems on the Council of Ministers, we currently have the Council of Ministers and it should function technically until in a legal and constitutional manner it chooses another. Therefore, I think it is my turn here to point out the source of the real problems and they lie in the inability of the Federation Assembly to propose its representatives to the House of Peoples and thus it is impossible for the Parliamentary Assembly to be established in a legitimate manner. That is why the SDS MPs' Club has asked for the suspension of the Balkan agenda syndrome and for us to establish ourselves in accordance with the Constitution, wait for the establishment of the House of Nations and continue to work constitutionally, and who will then be elected may the assembly majority decide in a democratic way, and we will certainly not be a distraction to do so, but please, I am yesterday and for the sake of you MPs and for the sake of the public, referred to the Kolegijum a question. What is the position of the House of Representatives and the constitutional position of the House of Representatives until the House of Peoples is established. So, is there a House of Representatives outside the BiH Assembly and whether there is a Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, unless the House of Peoples is established. That question was addressed to the Kolegijum. The Kolegijum has promised to inform us as the SDS MPs' Club in writing and we expect a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3202	Thank you, Mr. Banjac, Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3203	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, it is not possible for this speaker to be used in the promotion of politics. Therefore, I have one regret when it comes to this, and especially Mr Lagumdžija, and the HDZ has been mentioned, and especially the use of it when it comes to the party that is the ideological and legal successor of that party and that ideologies that brought BiH into the war, I think it could have gotten away with it, she would have pulled it out of '90. and '91. at a time when she had power. Secondly, when it comes to this part of HDZ and how it's right and right, it was '90. HDZ and today the SDP was then he was also the ideological and legal successor of the Alliance of Communists. When it comes to HDZ, it has 90 and almost 5%, respectively, of Croatian people's pre-scitarian support, and from the order of the Croatian people, it should be a Croat for the chairman, therefore it is logical that the HDZ gives its candidate to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I believe that neither the HDZ nor the other national parties should be treated, as the SDP wishes to say, that it will be that which will save BiH and its peoples, and especially when it comes to the Croatian people, it does not have a single percentage of the support of the Croatian people and we thank ourselves deeply in front of the HDZ, which we have plebistic support and surely that they had the trust of the Croatian people and would get these results, in particular, cannot give the SDP a candidate, regardless of the number of MPs, because it is quite clear, and the Croatian people is one of the constituent and sovereign peoples, thus the failure of a part of sovereignty, i.e. the full destruction of the sovereignty of one nation in a different way that you and your party have advocated. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3204	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I ask you, the replicas last for three minutes you know it by the Rules of Procedure and we simply agree with the assessment of political promotion or political promotion of political parties and the simple resolution of some issues, which are beyond the outcome of the agenda and the problems we are considering today.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3205	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, has asked me to appear in front of this pay phone, and I've been offered two things. I believe that until the session said so, it wasn't in the right sense that it started, it was beginning to happen, and I can't stand it from basic, moral initiatives. What am I talking about? That it is not normal for this session to put an end to the election of the President of the Council of Ministers or even to treat the issue at all, for the reason that Mr. Raguž is not here, and he is not here because the explicits knew that on the agenda a point that would deal with him as such was not even asked, therefore, it is quite excessive to come here for this reason. And secondly, he did not submit to us any written material in this regard so that we knew what his program was, etc. Therefore, which cannot be allowed to still lie for 5-6-10 days, and BiH, which has not burned so far, I think would not burn for those ten days. So, what is now being represented, is putting it on the agenda, and it's all kind of behind the scenes, unarticulated, all kind of sneaky, a little illegal, etc. If the Alliance has so far had in mind that it is, and probably is, which it is not in public, it may have pointed out several names of its candidates, so that the public can see who these people are, which they would be dealing with, whether they guarantee something, etc. I think it's quite excessive, that it's not constructive, and that's why I would ask and represent that opinion and that attitude, that this point should not go into the agenda now, but to leave it for 5-6-10 days, so we'll see what the situation is going to be, and now we're going to reevaluate some things, I think it would be excessive, unconstructive, not even tactical, so much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3206	I thank Representative Baković, MP Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3207	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow MPs- MPs, I'm not going to say replica, I'd just be inclined to give one false allegation to draw attention to him. Namely, here from this pay phone, the return to the past began again, which I do not think in any way should be our orientation, but yet from this pay phone was given a false quote and it was said that the parties that were in power were in power in '90. and '91. It has brought this country to war and it has been said to be the party I represent. I want to inform you that this party that we are the legal heirs and that we were even then, was not in power, so if you continue to think that the parties that were then in power brought the country to war, I do not dispute it, but I do not think that's the topic of the agenda. I just want to draw attention to the wrong quote, namely, that we're not the party that did it. Also, for the sake of respecting the Constitution, I must say that the SDP can't give the candidate, that's what we've already been told in consultations at the Bureau's session, when Mr Ante Jelavić told us that SDP cannot give 8 candidates from the SDP, and that is now repeated. I just want to tell you that under the Constitution of BiH, the SDP can give candidates and Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak and anyone we determine if it can get most of the House of Parliament. I also want to say that the constitutionality and equality of the people in BiH SDP has never questioned or will question when it comes to us, there is no possibility of negotiating it, and I also want to say that in accordance with Article 53. The Rules of Procedure, which we share, members of the Council of Ministers have the right and the duty to take part in the sessions of this House. I repeat, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has the duty to be here, not to ask if he was invited to this or that agenda. The public is perfectly clear that a statement on the Council of Ministers was expected today.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3208	Thank you, Ambassador Lagumdžija. Ambassador Miro Grabovac, replica too.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3209	Maybe Mr. Lagumdžija didn't get me very well. I said they were both ideological and legal, and legally they were heirs to the Communist Union, and the Communist Party was in power in the '90s, it was '90s, and when it comes to '91. and '92. when aggression was committed, which was when these forces didn't report to help and defend BiH, that is, to protect its peoples and citizens so much. Therefore, that was the case, when it comes to the '90s, and you are the legal heirs of the Union of Communists, that is correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3210	I'd like to thank Agent Grabovac. I believe there are no more replicas. Osman Brka, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3211	I came out to say my disappointment with the beginning of this session, especially when I really expected that in the past elections in this House, very responsible people who will work for the well-being of BiH and all its citizens and all its peoples were elected. We are aware here that we must have a lot of compromises in this fight. To whom it is not clear, I am sorry, it will also have to learn because we believe that there are decent people in all political options and that in this way alone with these honest people you can go ahead, with people who have a completely totalitarian view of a question. It's gonna be hard for this country to handle. That's why I came out here to say it. At any cost, excluding all people from any political party is unacceptable to me. At any cost to rule out as is said here for this speaker just now, but just all the people, who have defended this country with all their being, and we are in this state's Parliament, at any cost, it is unacceptable for me. As the strongest political party in BiH, which has done a great deal to defend me from sitting here and keeping my mouth shut on these accusations, and on these charges, I can't keep it quiet, which is why I think only people here with reason and compromise, without a tot... can lead this country and we can negotiate, otherwise it certainly won't be good. If the SDP is represented here, because nine of them are in Parliament, the question is how did it come to these nine, then I really expect the SDP to support the candidate of the SDA in the Federal Parliament, because the SDA in the Federal 9 Parliament is the most numerous, so we come up with a variety of absurdities, which is why I call on all of you who are sitting here on one normal reasonable position, to allow the prime minister to put together the good government, which can get Bosnia out of any problems, and if that doesn't work out so my Bog, everywhere in the world in democratic countries, is known if one mandater fails to get another, and that's not why I'm not going to waste so much of this kind of time in this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3212	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. I thank you for no more replicas. We can hold a discussion and prepare the vote for today's 2nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. About this question, just a few more information. You were confronted that we had a hard search for a solution. Namely, the agenda had been delivered significantly before to the MPs in relation to the Presidency's Decision appointing the Council of Ministers' mandate, which joined the College, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Then faced with the urgent procedure necessary when the Bureau addresses the House of Representatives. We met several times yesterday from the point of view of the agenda, the current one, which is proposed today, which means we failed to reach a political consensus either in the College, or in a wider college, which means the House of Representatives decides on the agenda and everything is legal and legitimate in terms of the proposal that has been made here today and I think we can make a statement on these proposals, so I suggest, given Article 51 that we go by priority, meaning the proposals put forward, the first proposal was made by Mr. Beriz Belkić, Mr. Lužanski has intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3213	I would like to warn you, Mr. President, of the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 115, because the proposal entered from the Party for BiH requires the position of the College and the calling of a special session, as stated in paragraph 1 of Article 115 of all sessions, means that it is not about the inclusion of the law or any other matter, but about the appointment of the Prime Minister, which is referred to in Article 115(1).
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3214	Thank you, Mr. lužanski. Madam Secretary, do we have an interpretation of this procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3215	... The College always interprets the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3216	The Rules of Procedure interpret the College, don't interpret anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3217	No, I'm not angry at all. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3218	Madam Secretary, it's okay, we agree. I suggest a break of 15 minutes and the College will come out with a proposal. To continue the session of the House of Representatives, unfortunately we have not yet reached the agenda, but I can point out one, there is no more complex mechanism or more complex BiH Assembly such as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and it is logical and normal to restore trust, simply establish trust and functioning at home as a whole, without some major problems, it will nevertheless take some time, and this is a normal, logical dimension of the constitution and functioning of the BiH Parliamentary House. [[PAUZA]] At the request of Mr lužanski, the HDZ representative, we have the following position of the College, which has agreed. The college believes that the conditions for considering the Council of Ministers' mandate have not been met today by the BiH presidency's candidates. We look at the reasons and arguments in the next one. First of all, we don't have members of the Bureau present at this session today. Secondly, the call for this House of Representatives session was made significantly earlier than the presidency's decision, which, meanwhile, joined the House of Representatives. The extended college he discussed had an obligation to consider the presidency's decision to appoint the Council of Ministers' mandate, had no political consensus, and the College also had no political consensus. At the same time, the mandate of the Council of Ministers, the BiH presidency candidate, requested a degree of tolerance and a conclusion of consultations with political parties and parties in the entire BiH area, which also resulted in the position of the College and the understanding that it is proposing today, remains the agenda as it is called for. With this, the College will send an invitation immediately after this session in the coming days to all MPs of the Parliamentary House of BiH, with the primary goal of considering the mandate of the Council of Ministers, as a candidate of the BiH presidency, for the next 7-10 days at the most. This is the stance of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. However, Article 51 obliges us to put Mr Beriz Belkić's proposal under consideration. I ask MP Beriz Belkić if he remains at his request, or simply, after this formulation of the last one, he may.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3219	I insist that it be no later than seven days. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3220	The term of office has been up seven days. Can we, with this conclusion for up to seven days, simply relax and remove the vote on the simple demands of the Party for BiH and MP Beriz Belkić, that was one request. The second request, Mr. Banjac, is to take point 3rd-day order, which is scheduled today, off the agenda, with the arguments of Mr. Dokić and others. I'm obliged to ask if there's a discusion. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3221	Gentlemen, in my discussion, I have quite precisely said that constitutional conditions were not created for discussing this item of the agenda, and I have supported this by the fact that he decided to answer my two questions to the Kolegijum within a period that is ahead. That's why I'm here to check who it is so that the point stays with my explanation on the agenda, not to take it off. I think that when she does, she'll have to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3222	Is anyone else answering for a discussion? I call once again on MP Dokić, who has presented other arguments for removing this point from the agenda and reason, and we can also agree, but we are obliged to plead on this proposal, to remove point 3 from the agenda. Who's in favour of taking this point off the agenda, Dokic's proposal and Banjčev? Who's in? Who's against it? No one's against it. Who's being held back? This is the first round of voting. We counted 42 MPs. One MP announced he would be leaving the session soon, but we have a full assembly of the House of Representatives. A little patience until consent. It's 42. 34 MPs have been declared. No one and abstention 6. I, too, 8 is restrained and it's important that most of them pleaded for a motion to take off. According to the entity's voting principle, from the Federation of BiH, who is to remove this point from the agenda. Only for, from the Federation. They've got people counting. At least 10. We can see there's a lot of them. There's no need. Who's from the RS to get this point off the agenda? We see five MPs. We've got more than five. Thank you. So point 3 is removed from the agenda and we can go all the way to defining the agenda and proposing the agenda as a whole. So we're proposing the next agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the constitutional session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Selection of members of committees at home; Point 3. We're off. Point 4. It becomes point 3. 3. Proposal for a conclusion on possible professionalisation of MPs in the House of Representatives and 4. MPs' questions. Who's in order to adopt a agenda like this? There's no need to count, everyone's in. Anybody got any pressure? Abstained? Thank you. 12 By entity principle, no need, thank you very much. I agree that we have adopted the agenda for the 2nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. 1. The adoption of the prisoners from the constitutive session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a copy of the minutes, a stenogram, too, with the 1st constitutive session we own. Is there a discussion at point one? Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3223	Mr. President, members of the government, gentlemen of Parliament, the Club of MPs of the SDA accepted this copy of the minutes and pointed to the very correctness and chronological report of the event of the constitutive assembly, so here it is today. In order for this correctness to end, I would say to perfection, the MPs' club proposes to be in this copy. In addition to the brief address of Sead Avdić, the chairman of this assembly, include the addition of Mr Mirjanić and Mr Ljubić's presentation. So, in addition to the need for correctness, I would also point out the signification requirement. It was significant to address Mr Mirjanić and Ljubić, and I appreciate that it should be as an addition to the minutes, as much as the SDA's Club of MPs made a subjectively negative impression, after Mr Mirjanić's first chair of the House of Representatives, among other things, thanked one part of the MPs in the previous work of RS, or Mr Banjac, for constructive work in the past period. While the cancer of the other MPs, first of all, the chairman of this college, was out of the question, so there is a way to draw the wrong conclusion. That's why we appreciate that it would be good to supplement how this copy of the record, in order to remove this dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3224	I thank Ambassador Borić. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? I'm convinced that, you want to get out,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3225	There is no need, MP, second-in-Office Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, an MP for the Serbian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3226	We have two interventions. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? We don't have any reports. Please, I think that addressing the members of the College after the elections is not the opposite of not being able to be simple, in a copy of the minutes, i.e. a stenogram from the constitutive session and that there is no interference. Everyone stands behind their words and it is no problem that we can adopt this intervention with this intervention and the technical correction of this report. 13 Who is in order for this prisoner to be adopted? By the number of hands raised, is anyone there? Is there anyone with any restraints? So we're all unanimous and in this context we don't even need an entity vote as per the record. We've adopted the record. Ad.2. The election of members of the House's committees After a painful and sometimes conflicting work and consensus of MPs, presidents of parliamentary clubs, in four meetings, with a lot of compromises and concessions of individual political parties and understanding, we have come to the proposal of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, eight by nine members, along with some rules that we adopted. One of these rules is that all the Polish clubs have one president, that all MPs are at least in one House of Representatives, that at least in each commission they are two members of the Croatian nationality, that we try to evenly share the burdens and presence of committees between MPs of the House of Representatives, respecting these criteria and normally that one-tenth of the commission is from the RS, two-thirds from the Federation of BiH. By respecting these basic criteria, we have come to the proposal that is before you. We don't have any more interventions or information in college. Please, who is calling for a discussion on the commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Here you go. Ambassador Ibrahim Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3227	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully listened to the criteria you have stated, but I am here expressing disagreement with the criterion of equality, because there are MPs who are in three commissions and those who are in one. So I don't want to fight for myself to get on the board yet, I don't want to, but I want to respect the principle. Therefore, I don't think there's any reason for anyone to be in more than two commissions and for the rest to be deployed to other parties. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3228	Thank Ambassador Đedović. If I can be free to try to answer this question. In fact, in these criteria that I have listed there are opposing criteria where it cannot be reconciled simply. If you respect, above all, the fundamental national criteria for each commission to be at least two members of Croatian nationality, then it limits the possibility of reconciliation of all the criteria that Mr. Đedović is talking about, so a small number of MPs happened to be objectively in two or three committees of Parliament's House of Representatives. Unfortunately, we in the parliamentary clubs and the College were unable to avoid such developments and such a proposal, and there will be another commission of the ninth to be proposed. The amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives are under way, and in this context we will also try to relax the possible remarks that occur today through this committee. Is there anyone else to discuss? I thank you. We can go to the vote. 14 Who is for the proposal of the House of Representatives Commission to be adopted, who is in favour? Do you mind? Is there anyone with any restraints? There isn't. As a result of the vote, we do not have to go to an entity vote, and in this context from 42 – 41 were voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal by the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – against 1 – no one was abstentioned. In this regard, I am announcing that the proposal of an extended college of committees, composed of the House of Representatives committees adopted, with information that the College of Enlargement has agreed and agreed and candidates for the House of Representatives' Committee. If necessary, we can also read candidates for the chairman of these committees, but this is also agreed as information. Read it, Željko, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3229	Please, the club chiefs agreed to the composition of the committees and it was just an elected composition of committees and, of course, by nature of things was a debate about the chairman committees, the heads of commissions, the club heads agreed on it, the division of commissions to clubs and they agreed on names. If the MPs aren't informed by their club bosses, let me read what's agreed, and if I make a mistake, correct me. 1. Constitutional Affairs Commission Mirko Banjac 2. Foreign Affairs Commission - Chairman Ivo Andrić - Lužanski 3. Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs - Chairman Tihomir Gligorić 4. The Commission for Finance and Budget – Chairman of Beriz Belkić 5. Human Rights Commission, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum Chairman Osman Brka 6. Transport and Communications Commission – Chairman Ivo Lozančić 7. The Commission for Administrative Affairs – Chairman Zdenko Vukić I apologize to Sead Avdić, my colleague Avdić will not be angry 8. The Committee for Gender Equality in BiH -- chaired by Violeta Kamberović i, will be scheduled to form a commission on religious issues. The SDS Parliament Club is scheduled to give the chairman of this committee. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3230	Thank you, Željka, with this, I ask you, the chairman of the committee and vice-presidential committees from two other constituent nations are elected on the committees themselves. So, no predstavnički statements on the House of Representatives' chairmanship committees and the extended college agreed, this was just information. At its separate meetings, the Commission will elect the chairpersons and vice-presidents. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3231	Madam Chairman, I came forward because you did read the proposals for the presidents of the committee, and you yourself said it was a commission matter. So, the commission's gonna do and you said the commission's gonna do it. Now that you've said that, I'd like to make an observation that I made on behalf of the club that I'm presenting not to point out the name long again. We asked from the RS that one of the three proposed at the Foreign Affairs Commission be president of this commission. Since most have decided otherwise, I have pointed out and repeated here in front of everyone, when we discuss the Council of Ministers, then we ask from the RS, that the foreign minister be a candidate from the RS and it is silent in the College and agreed. This is what I'm saying that you have in mind, and since I'm already here, since it's about the formation of another commission, the ninth commission, I propose to the Kolegijum to consider also the question of the formation of a commission that would be called the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, something similar to that initiated by the religious communities, which should come to the agenda from the assembly. I think that this initiative and the two committees should be launched to coordinate. That's what we need. I'll explain when it's time to consider what we need, at least because we have three truths here, at least three truths, and there's one truth to everything that's happened since the '90s to today. I believe it is necessary to make such a commission within the assembly and to define who can be on that committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3232	Thanks to Ambassador Dokić, with this, this was repeated by his colleague Dokić at an extended meeting of the Colleges. I'm just saying that the College is well aware of its powers and competences given to it, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, and we have no right to engage, we did not engage in the right to simply address staff issues or to propose to the Council of Ministers, at least, so there is no College Consensus on any staff issues and at least the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So we're not going into the union today about this kind of thinking. We stay, we have trust that will propose, a House of Representatives who will declare themselves to each candidate individually. This was just information. I ask you to have the tolerances for the commissions to elect their presidents at separate meetings, along with this proposal from an extended college, which we also expect to respect and that simply the commissions have such a schedule of presidents and chairman committees. For today, we have suggested the following, that today, now to take a half-hour break, I ask you, a necessary break, since we are very operational people, one half-hour break, where in this break we would establish commissions, we chose the presidents that commissions can normally continue to work in the space and time that is before us. 16 So it is necessary to establish committees, select committee presidents, and so agreed the extended college. If it's less than half an hour, we can extend it, but I'm giving it half an hour. Please, we have three cabinets. My Koleginica Branka has a cabinet schedule and a commission formation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3233	Can I just get out of place?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3234	It's a Branka phone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3235	Can I just ask you a little bit, Mr Ljubić's cabinet should be attended by the following committees: the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Committee on Gender Equality in BiH. The Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, the Transport and Communications Commission, goes to Mr Avdić's cabinet. The Commission for Finance and Budgets, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and the Commission for Administrative Affairs will go to the cabinet of Mr Mirjanić. That's three of our cabinets.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3236	I'm calling in this order to do this part of the job. Thank you. Gentlemen, I suggest that we begin, that is, to continue the meeting of the House of Representatives, point 3 with this point before I inform you that we have been in a break that has lasted some longer, able to establish the committees of all eight, select the presidents, on the proposal of an extended college, in that sense, we can consider this cycle of formation of the House of Representatives with this end, and still the obligation to elect the Vice-Presidents, or vice-chairs of the other two constituent peoples, so that we can conclude that we have completed the process of establishing the House of Representatives, and in this context we can work in accordance with the Constitution and the Law of BiH. [[PAUZA]] In front of you is point 3. Ad.3. Proposal for a conclusion on the possible professionalisation of MPs in the House of Representatives Conclusion, which emerged as a proposal from our professional services, we tried to build it up and innovate it from the point of view and attitude of the College. I would ask Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, vice president to present and explain this conclusion, that is, the proposal. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3237	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, we have prepared this conclusion on establishing criteria for professionalising MPs. We have so far had one conclusion as the House of Representatives, but it was in front of the Administrative Commission, but by adopting a new Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 11(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives in its session is authorized to conclude the criteria for the professionalisation of MPs, so we have prepared one position. I note that in the previous conclusion, adopted by the Administrative Commission, both vice-presidents and commission presidents were foreseen as professionals. In this conclusion, the provisions are laid down quite broadly in Article 2. says: “Right to obtain the status of permanent staff representatives in the House of Representatives, all MPs have been elected in the House of Representatives, depending on the means of the resources available.” So it's up to us to also determine the moody means of budgeting, we'll certainly take care of it. But in the next view that these issues are being decided by the Administrative Commission, it is, therefore, being subject to the requirements. As part of this, we were planning through the Administrative Commission to conduct a survey among MPs to see what an interest in professionalisation exists. In my opinion, it would be good for as many representatives as possible to be professionals, because there are not many of us and certainly because of the efficiency of the work, and here we are on the commissions. We would do well to have more professionals, but it will certainly be decided by the representatives, according to their wishes and possibilities, to the Administrative Commission. We also took care of the fact that certainly the parties who have fewer representatives will certainly show the need for representatives of professionals, so we did not go with the provision to limit what number it is, whether it is one third, half or a quarter, I think this is a good, solid criterion that in Article 2. It enables all MPs to become professionals, and in Article 4, it suggests, so, as a rule, it says that they should certainly be the chairman and vice president. So he's set quite broadly, I say once again, we're going to conduct this survey, to see what kind of interest there is, but it's certainly up to us to establish in the budget the need for the functioning of the House of Representatives, and I say we don't need anyone who wants professional and responsible work, to deny him the possibility of being a professional and to exercise all the rights of employment as an employee. I don't think there's anything unclear here, we follow both the Constitution and the constitutional foundation, which says MPs will be paid for their work. Therefore, the representative can do so by applying to the Administrative Commission, and as an Administrative Commission and as a House, we find resources in the budget and to finance the work of the House of Representatives, I think so much to begin with.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3238	Thank you, Mr. Ljubić. You have before you a proposal for a conclusion, an explanation. Who's answering for a word? Does anyone have a discussion? Mr. Banjac. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3239	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I had it written on my desk so I don't know why, it's like this for years, so I caught up in a hurry to write what I already had. Please, I think this conclusion, perhaps it's awkwardly said, you lawyers know it better than I do. The conclusion should usually contain a very clear provision, which is quite clear and understandable and this would be more like a decision, which has multiple members, views, conclusions, you lawyers better know whether the conclusions can be made by the points, but here I think it would be above all to make this a decision. Secondly, I think that this problem should be quite precisely defined, but it is not precisely defined here, and therefore I suggest that you think about it and if it is possible to accept the proposal, it says: “To add a new position in point 2, which would regulate precisely, because here is said, everyone can, but if they are approved”, so I can't. The very fact that she has there “if”, then not everyone should be able to interpret it that way. I would add the next position in this point, which is, the status of a full-time member of staff has at least one third, means that we are not going below that. Of the total parliamentary composition, of which, of which, of that composition, one third must be from the RS and two thirds from the Federation, because it is thus drawn up. Furthermore, parliamentary clubs make a decision on the individual professionalisation of their members and inform the Administrative Commission accordingly. Next, a request for the status of a permanent member of Parliament is submitted by a parliamentary club, or an MP, because he may also be an MP outside the parliamentary clubs of the independent Administrative Commission, and I agree there, and I would only add that to point 3 and in 4. I'd delete the text so I'd put it like this. The chair and vice-presidents of the House of Representatives shall serve professionally. Gentlemen, we can't leave here I can or can't, this is a high function, this is where we have to work, if we're going to move forward we won't be able to do otherwise I still have no objections, and I have another proposal. Since we all have an observation, probably even here, that in writing we deliver it to the Kolegijum, it's not a hit, it's not a rush, and you should say what you've accepted in the next assembly and make a complete decision with us or a conclusion that you'll already define yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3240	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Who's next to the word? So essentially Mr. Banjac suggests that we turn this conclusion, or the proposal into a draft, to deliver our observations and to make a statement in the next session about the decision, or conclusion that we have proposed today, along with these additions, normano, which is spoken of. Mr. Belkić. This question relaxes the answer, which is that the administrativno-upravan-Governmental, Legal Commission will conduct a poll of MPs in the possible professionalisation of everyone, which means we will have a number of potential candidates to professionalise their work in the House of Representatives. A Banjac. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3241	Gentlemen, we won't be able to go like this. We're turning out to be a social institution. I think the Administrative Commission and the College should think a little differently. What is necessary here to professionalise in order for the Assembly to work effectively, because if we start with the survey we come up with social issues. If we come from the need of the congregation, we come up with essential questions. So before I do, I think we should see what the functions are, whether the presidents and vice presidents of the committee, just the presidents or what committees, maybe not everyone and what they should do here. It is important to know what will give the work of Parliament better efficiency, that is, this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-01-29-0.u3242	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Whoever continues to answer the word, leaving the right of every MP to be able to professionalise his function and his right to do so cannot be taken away. In relation to the financial resources, we have not yet received a draft budget from the Presidency, we have dealt with the Council of Ministers and we will work fully to ensure that the House of Representatives' budget is fully absorbed by the possibility of professionalising each MP individually and that is why we will work as hard as possible to professionalise the MPs in the BiH House of Representatives and that is the goal. We're going to look for a budget like that that simply designs such possibilities. So we're going to make this a draft conclusion, take all of these suggestions, and next time you're going to get a detailed, or a proposal for a statement, normally written remarks, that's what we said to deliver to the College that will act and make this conclusion. Can we finish point 3 with this conclusion? To draft a decision, the conclusion defines the Rules of Procedure. The conclusion is, the form of a conclusion is not a decision. We're staying on this, so the conclusion is that it's a draft conclusion. Who's for this kind of attitude, please? Thank you, most of you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you, unanimously. We can go to this MP's watch, an hour of parliamentary questions, a corresponding tradition of the functioning of the House of Representatives, we have decided for this 2nd session of the House of Representatives to be at the end of the agenda. MPs can insist that it be point one. A mandatory point, a parliamentary clock, at the beginning of every session, then we can agree, and you have a watch for parliamentary questions in writing or oral form. Oral form for three minutes, written form requires written response, etc. Here you go. Has anyone prepared any parliamentary questions in oral or written form today? We don't have any parliamentary questions today. I thank you for your constructive and successful work at the 2nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Tomorrow's extended college at 10:30 has a meeting with the OSCE, an extended college. The seat is closed at 2:45.
