ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5603	The session began at 15.40 hours. Gentlemen, the honored guests, are opening the 18th session of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. In addition to Members of the House, our regular guests and representatives of institutions and international organisations who have been monitoring the work of the House of Representatives and who have been with us since this morning, from today all day from 11 o'clock. Please report how many MPs attend the session. There are 35 MPs present. We have a quorum to work with. I don't think I should explain which MPs are absent, because we already said that in the follow-up session. The only person left is Mr. Neimarli, who apologized and informed him he wouldn't be present. The session was called by a consensus of the chair and Members' clubs. You've received a proposal from the agenda, which was also determined by the consensus. Before teaching, before this session, we held the Extended College of the House of Representatives and determined the order, the change in the order of the points in the agenda. I ask the messengers to follow. We haven't been able to technically solve it to get you a changed agenda schedule, so I'm going to try it like this. 1. A record from the 16th session of the House of Representatives, Then I would suggest, please, the club chiefs to accept even though we had a different version of the parliamentary questions and answers not being points 2 but to agree to be the last point. Can we make a deal with the club chiefs? I'm asking you to make a deal like that. 2 Then, just for today, to be able to do emergency tasks, then the next point would be 2. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Personal Card Act, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Proposal for a law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 6. “ What Is It? ”? 8 / 8 The proposal for a law on state service and the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was to remove point 8. from the agenda for today on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Seven. Proposed demining law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Proposal for a law on free zones, then here we swapped seats so that now would be point 9. Law on the importance of public documents, 10. Human Rights Commission Report, 12. Giving consent to ratify these agreements, please don't read everything. Did you manage to follow, not to read everything, because then we'd lose extra time. It's the agenda. I'm asking if there's any objections. And final point 13. MPs' questions and answers. Any objections to the draft agenda? If there are no MPs, please make a statement. Who's in? Here you go, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5605	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I suggest that point 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Tariff Act, to move it back further. Given the importance of that law, I think we should move it. We won't be able to discuss him very well. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5606	We'll break the law before that. We won't make it. I ask you to make sure that we finish by half four, starting with the request of the SDA Club, which calls for its rights to them according to the Rules of Procedure. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's for the proposed agenda? Who's against it? Abstained? I'd like a voter's report. Of the 35 MPs present, all 35 voted in favour. I find that the agenda has been adopted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The log from the 16th session of the House of Representatives you received. Any objections, please? Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm guessing no one answered the word. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's up for the adoption of the record? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. Of the 35 MPs present, 33, 2 MPs have not voted, but there is no need, there is no reason for entity voting. It's all clear. Let's move on. The next item of the agenda is Ad. 2. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of the Agreement on the Single Text of the Law on the ID of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina Chairman of the Joint Commission Dr. Sead Avdić. I'm asking Mr. Avdić to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5607	I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear guests. The Joint Commission met on two occasions and found the strength to agree and harmonize the opinion and, in this context, also to agree and obtain consent from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, stands at the position of the amendment 7th, i.e. 8th, which was disputed that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications should, through a form for issuing a ID card, or by sublegal acts, meet the applicant in a convenient manner that requires that the introduction of entity names for personal use may be an obstacle to its use as travel documents outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is Article 40. Bosnia and Herzegovina citizens' ID law makes it impossible. So this was the compromise that we have reached and to the satisfaction of all representatives and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly we have agreed this position which is a practical position and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the representatives of the House of Nations accepted the opinion and attitude of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5608	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. Here you go. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5609	The SDA MPs' club cannot accept the amendment that reads – in Article 6 behind Article 3 behind the word'mother state' is added the words 'nationality of entities' for known reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5610	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. I'm putting the report to the vote. Who's for the Commission's report? Who's against, please, who's against? Thank you. I ask Ambassador Kovačević to plead. Do you vote like a club? Okay. Thank you. Thirty-five MPs present. For 25, v. 6. abstention 3. It takes an entity vote. I'm asking for the entities. Who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? I ask MPs from Republika Srpska to declare who's in favour? Thank you. I understand that from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20 MPs, from Republika Srpska, voted in favour of six MPs. I find that the report has been adopted. Gentlemen, we're breaking up now. That's the deal with the club chiefs. The House of Representatives' College will meet and inform you when we will have an extension of this session. We plan to have it by the end of the year, so this year. Probably after the 20th. It's very difficult to find an appointment now for reasons known. Thank you, gentlemen. I'll see you. The seat was interrupted at 3:30. 5 Gentlemen, honored guests, we are leaving the 18th session of the Representative's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present MPs and guests. I welcome the representatives of the public information funds, who are monitoring the work of our session. The seats are attended by 33 MPs. The absence was announced by MPs Halil Mehtić, Mirko Baković, MP Ibrahim Đedović, who left the meeting in protest for delaying the beginning of the session and informed the College by letter. The reasons why we are late for the beginning of the session are because we have received new proposals from the Council of Ministers, a proposal to change the agenda of the 18th session. There were consultations on this, and we asked for the Council of Ministers to be made known and the Council of Ministers, as I was recently informed, was therefore almost finished. So these are the reasons. No, what was previously agreed on could have gone, but these new moments, which are very well known to the public and which I don't think should be spoken of. On the bench you gentlemen have received a consolidated text of the adopted agenda. Today, before this session, an extended college of the House of Representatives was held, at which the amendments to the agenda were agreed. What's in line is what you got on the table. Let me tell you right now it's three new points. The draft law on administrative disputes was removed from the adopted agenda, in agreement with the Council of Ministers. I'm asking you to pay attention, we have another correction. We have a message from the Council of Ministers, from the old minister in the Council of Ministers, the College has just been informed, the College of the House of Representatives, that the Council of Ministers is withdrawing its request to consider, after an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law on the purpose and use of property, which BiH has received under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucessions. Isn't that right, Minister? Yes, it is. To get off the agenda. Okay. You made the suggestion. You withdrew the proposal, it's to take off that it's not in session today, it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's what we accept. It's the Council of Ministers' position, so the agenda would be changed compared to what you've got. So point 5. The request of the minister's advice on the urgent procedure of the proposal for a law on the use of property, which BiH received under the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Affairs, is not on the agenda. Six point six becomes point five point seven becomes point six and so on. I don't think I should explain these technical things so we don't waste any time. Here you go. We have a draft agenda ahead of us. Is anyone answering for your word?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5612	In front of the SDP MEPs' Club, I propose to put an end to the agenda, in fact, the draft copyright law of BiH, because we have already been given the opportunity in the material that we received on December 18th to put this item on the agenda and, since this law has been in the process for more than half a year, we consider in front of the SDP that there is no need for such a delay, because we all know what the situation is on the ground, so I suggest that this bill be placed on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5613	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5614	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I would like first to publicly support my colleague Đedović in this statement on the agenda. Secondly, let me tell you that his mood shares another significant number of MPs in this house. Perhaps if this practice continues, that we wait two or three hours for you to begin the sessions, then you will have a situation that most MPs will boycott you. That's why I'm proposing, and since the reasons for the delay or delay that you've made, no longer swear after the Council of Ministers' decision to withdraw the law. So these reasons that you stated don't exist and are no longer relevant to our debate. I suggest that we start the session literally on the agenda that we adopt, that we finish it and try to prepare the next session in the days before the session is set. Our college, the commission, all the working bodies at home, the Council of Ministers and ministries are the permanent bodies of this state and the House. They can and should be sitting in the days before the meetings of the House. The same applies to the often occupied halls of the House of Peoples, etc. Let's find an O.R. and work parallel. Leave us a hall or two days a month when we can hold a session. These are all a bit of a matter of technical nature, but they have a significant impact on the mood of MPs and on the function of Parliament. My suggestion is, I repeat, after what happened to this new bill, which we adopted at one of the sessions. We passed this law. If there's one more reason for us as chargers, then from now on, a new law on the passed law. If it is the law, let it be the law on amendments and additions and ultimately we must also agree on what competences and certain homes and some people in homes and even in parliamentary life and work in this parliamentary assembly are. I repeat, I express, also dissatisfaction with this. I support my colleague, Đedović. It's not that, he had the courage to do it alone and believe me that at least ten MPs at the same time reacted in the same way but the rest of it here, to know why the man went and the others, I suggest that we leave the debate 7 discussions on changes to the agenda, which we adopted for some future time, and that we bring this session in the way we adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5615	Thank you very much, fellow Amidžić. I'll try to explain something. It's obvious you didn't have all the facts and all the notices in mind. It's about next. First, a session of the Extended College was held this morning according to the scheduled schedule and proposal. I must say, no matter how angry anyone may be, that the beginning of the session was not attended by representatives of the Council of Ministers, that we asked representatives of the Council of Ministers to attend the session and that all those questions asked by the Council of Ministers to be subsequently placed on the agenda, as well as the question of the electricity agreement, proposed by the Presidency, were asked to receive full information, that is one part of the time we lost. It's not about an extended college or a hot college. We simply showed good will. We were able to say, since there are no proposings, we are not going to discuss it and we are taking it off the agenda, but we wanted to solve these problems. After that, I would inform you, you must know, that between 12 and 13 hours we had a break at the request of the SDA Parliament Club and that it is normal for us to respect the religious first of all MPs. After that, she was a meeting of the Council of Ministers and we were waiting for a meeting of the Council of Ministers to be concluded so that the Council of Ministers could take a position on the conflict law. What can still lead to confusion is next. We had earlier established the agenda and we wanted to continue the session today according to the previously established agenda. However, before the session, we received new requests from the BiH presidency and the Council of Ministers. When we talk about the conflict law, it is quite clear that this is a new thing, that the House of Nations session was after us and that this is a new problem that could not be solved when we have established the agenda of this session, it could not have been until this morning. It is also a new development loan agreement, the third project refurbishment in the el sector. Energy between BiH and the International Development Association, where we are told that the agreement, in order to withdraw funds, must be accepted by the end of this year. So, the reason for the urgency. No failure has been made either by the College in the narrow composition or by the College in the wider composition, but we have done everything we can to work fully today and make the right decisions. Mr. Đedović has the right to be human. I respect part of his reasons, but you must know that there were objective circumstances. Just before the session, the Continuation of the House of Representatives held the final position of the Council of Ministers, the First Council of Ministers, and to propose and withdraw the proposal, but you must allow the Council of Ministers to be in an exceptional situation and that it should have taken its stand. This is a very important, huge economic and social issue in this country. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5616	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers, guests and journalists, I would draw attention here only to some things and support the protests of MPs protesting this kind of work from the session to the session. 8 It was not long ago that the meeting of December 13, at which Mr Lagumdžija chaired the Council of Ministers asked us to hold a permanent session. We have our first session today after that imperative request for our permanent session and what I mean. That shouldn't have been asked at all, because the one who needs to prepare a session of the Alliance isn't preparing a session. Why does it come to this? Because there is no coordination between the leadership of this Parliament and the leadership of the House of Peoples and the Council of Ministers. They match everything this morning. So what did they do from 13 till this morning? It can't be done like that. I just want to draw attention to something here to ask, the most responsible people who exercise power in this country, to be made public and not to put Parliament in this position. This is very unserious for voters and for all authorities in this country, in this way it is organised. I don't blame this here on the presidency of our home, but I blame the entire leadership of the Alliance that works the wrong way from day one to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5617	Thank you. Allow me, colleague Mijatović. A fellow Mijatović on behalf of the club can be an MP. Here's your friend, Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5618	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the guests, I ask you who Bog we are to start working at this session, because where we have stayed for three hours, we will now talk for another hour about how we should have worked and why we did not. I, of course, blame her on the leadership of this house, because in the end, they're not guilty. In this country, the government has executive power. Parliament is not the power. I stood up to it. Of course, it's hard to stand up to it. The role that Parliament has received now has the consequences of this role, and I don't understand Mr. Đedović's protest absolutely doesn't deserve the value of paying attention to him, so he's the man who voted this minister's advice and now he's giving me a lecture instead of me giving him a lecture and because now he doesn't have me sitting here for an hour. Gentlemen, you know very well that this is the usual mode of work that we accept. Don't torture us, keep working. Don't do this to us. Do you have the strength as a parliament, to place Parliament in its position and where each parliament must be. Please, it's no wonder, if the press pulls the inscriptions, what's there to ask for MPs and delegates, if someone outside of that happened, then this is a natural sequence of events in this country. It's just a natural sequence of events. The apostle is not an apostle to the extent to which he should be. The apostle doesn't have a place and a role to play and here's the consequences, we've been here for an hour if we're going to work. I'm asking you to get on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5619	My colleague, Mijatović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5620	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I am concerned by one fact that even such a formalized act can come to the Parliamentary Council, it is a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the urgent procedure of the proposal for a law on the modification and use of property, which BiH received under the agreement on ex-SFRJ concessions. As far as I know if I'm not deceived by my memory, we've passed that law, and look what's going on. Just like the board of directors, and after that, we can't get the honor of this home to formulate that we're discussing something that we've been discussing, and now I'm going to try to express my own opinion on why that is. Because the second home abuses the situation because of political promotion, it seems to me only two people, there Sejfudin Tokić and our Špirić, who hold press conferences and I don't know what. And gentlemen from the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly of our House, you must not allow on behalf of us MPs, nor should we allow this to be misused by another home by this representative council. I will tell you in parliamentary democracy in parliamentary parliaments that are two-domestic and very common in the world like this one in BiH, where they have two homes, there is a practice everywhere that this council discusses fundamental matters and that there is a decision to protect somewhere in autonomous provinces and republics as it has been quite justified in the previous Yugoslavia, or in other ways in different solutions, or in our House of Peoples with an exact task as it is specified. Because of a little not precision, which is not exactly defined in the Psolovnik, we now have a situation that this as a council has been commanded by this parliamentary council, which is essentially MEPs here, and there are delegates and those gentlemen there, and if I have heard their comments, they want to reason and to salt their minds with this parliamentary council. I would ask that all of us here and the MPs and you who lead who are our executives in a certain way with the functions that you have take care of and that you do not put us in this situation. These gentlemen must know that nona can't make it whenever it wants and how it will and especially because of the political promotion here to tell two people Sejfudin Tokić, who, I think, and if he isn't present but I will state that he is bored with all of BiH's actions as he steps forward or Mr Špirić, who in three days changes three opinions and leads into error, so also to RS pensioners.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5621	My colleague Amidžić is probably hiding me, so he has the advantage and then Minister Domazet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5622	Madam Chairman, I really have no reason to admire your co-operation and patience to listen to us. Therefore, it is not a matter of criticism, but of correcting the wrong allegation. In fact, it's a guilty allegation that we were waiting for something from the Council of Minsitors that we didn't meet in the end. Which is withdrawn. But it's also a business procedure, questioning the starting session. The real step of the College and this leadership of this Parliament is to be gentlemen, we have a request from the Council of Ministers to consider this and this law according to the article and this, we are going to the 19th session of the same day. We could begin this session at 11 when it is scheduled, and if it is too much of an interest for BiH and for our success, we will take this point into consideration on the same day after the end of this session and adopt it as we adopted last time, but you see, this is a 10-session start and it's not good. You don't have a business basis for breaking into a session. Let's continue and finish the session, because her agenda has been adopted. All that's now on the sidelines in the agenda, gentlemen, give it to me immediately the same day we'll hold the next session from one point and adopt it. So, I'm for work, but I'm also for respecting the Rules of Procedure and something else, which is not why I am no longer that extended college of gentlemen decides on behalf of MPs. They do not have club presidents' mandates as it was at last session agreed that MPs do not speak, but that the law is passed, they do not have the mandate. Then leave the day and the clubs. Here you go, gentlemen presidents, call the clubs, we'll respond, and then we'll listen to our clubs, but when the clubs look at it, they make decisions, not when the club president is a personification club, it won't be like this in my case or in another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5623	Thank you. Mr. Bjelobrk Belabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5624	Now I would like to deny it, but since I would like to join those who are calling for us to go to work, just to say that my colleagueMijatović Mr. Novaković, voted against the law, which you have now so kindly defended, so I advise you to search some of the stenograms and what was agreed on in Banja Luka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5625	Thank you, fellow Bjelobrk. If there's no false allegations or anything like that, Mr. Domazet. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5626	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers did not have an invitation for an extended session of colleges. That's why we were invited while the session lasted. I immediately responded to the call, interrupted all obligations and came to that session and participated in her work in the discussion on some important issues, especially about point 5. Further information has been provided. I responded immediately and asked Mr. Chairman to call a consultation of the Council of Ministers as promised to the Kolegijum. We had it, and we came up with a proposal to take point 5 off the agenda. I point that out again. I think it was the result of extraordinary coordination, perfect coordination, and I'm very sorry that for all of it, he's been blinking for a while. I'm sorry that some MPs felt offended. I don't think we're going to be able to eliminate these cases until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5627	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Mr. Željko Bilbija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5628	The honored gentlemen of mistakes were both subjective and objective, but if we turn into a court here, each of us has a comment on what happened. I traveled 12 hours to come to the session, so if I had to wait two hours today to get some things in line, which are for the benefit of all of us, I could have sacrificed that too. I wish she'd started the same way you did. I think I live and live and travel the longest. I wish we were done and I could've left. It was how it was, it had to be. We've been working together, we've been working together, we've been working together, we've been working together, we've been working together, we've been losing half an hour, we've been through what we can't fix anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5629	Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I have information that the Council of Ministers has been timely informed of today's session of an extended college. I have information from the Secretary of the House and I'm waiting, obviously it's a mistake, but we'll see if there's an administration error in the House or if there's a mistake in the administration in the world of the Minsitare. Since no one's answering for a word, we have a agenda that you have ahead of you. No points 5. The points after that are numbered, 6 is 5. 7th is 6.itd. We have a proposal for Mr Mašić Damir aiz SDP to be included in the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Other Rights. I would only ask the resolution minister or the representative of the resolution ministry for only one information, whether it is the text of a law that has already been forwarded to the parliamentary procedure or, possibly, the text has been amended at the Council of Ministarians. Please, I get it now. Just tell me, is this text in which these amendments were introduced to the Assembly – the House of Representatives with these amendments? We didn't get that text, Mr. Prlić. That's the problem. I'm asking the Secretary of the House to let us know if we've received a new text of the copyright law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5630	We didn't get a new text from the copyright law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5631	Am I right, if we didn't get it, there's no way to put it on the agenda today for reasons that won't allow Psolovnik. No conjecture was created. By procedure he cannot go to the agenda today, unless delivered by the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives. That's a very clear thing. So maybe we're mixing something up. It's not about changing and supplementing, it's about the new law. We had the same dilemma in the conflict law. We needed a new law today. Since the House of Nations has not accepted, then our decision has no legal relevance anymore, the law has not been passed, and then the Proposer has to send a new bill, that's the story of the Law of Succession and also of the Law of Copyright, if it is not the same text, if it has one in a row, one point in relation to the text previously delivered to the House of Representatives, it is a new proposal and it has to go through the full procedure, and that is that first the College determines the competent commission and sends in further procedure. That's the way it is with the Rules of Procedure. 12 here you go, Mr. Prlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5632	It's about the old text of the copyright law. He did not change either within the ministry or at the Council of Ministers. Meanwhile, three amendments have been submitted, and now I can't remember whose name it is. It is your right to declare these amendments. So the law is the same. There's no need for a new procedure to open.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5633	I'm asking the secretary at home to let us know to the MPs about the facts. Here you go, Mrs. Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5634	It is a proposal for a law on copyright and related rights in BiH. This law was sent to the procedure on 26.6.2001. As a competent commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission worked and submitted its report on 29.8. The report shows that there have been no amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission's work. We didn't get any amendments later, so we couldn't even plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5635	Mr. Prlić, what are the amendments then?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5636	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5637	It's obviously a misunderstanding. I don't think today's House of Representatives is ready to discuss this, but I'll put you to the vote, if that's what you're doing. The problem is the MPs aren't ready today. That's the problem, because there's a misunderstanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5638	Please, let's not stall any longer. This is a really, really difficult question for BiH. You know what happens on the streets. This law is necessary for this country. I don't see any obstacles here. We had the first reading adopted, the same text, it's supposed that amendments exist, here they don't seem to exist, so we adopt the text that was in the first reading. I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5639	Thank you. Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5640	Dear gentlemen, I'm not giving up my proposal and last time. Here's another suggestion. We have a lot of work ahead of us today. If we're here to discuss whether we're going to work or not, how are we going to do it? Here's a suggestion. Let's do this thing that we've reached agreement on. If we do it quickly and efficiently, I suggest that, if we have to call a new session to agree, if there is anything else to be adopted, but since the procedure doesn't work both in the rest and in this law we can all discuss here for an hour, does there have any basis to vote on what will happen? So, we better finish what we got, and we'll deal with it further.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5641	A fellow Banjac, just one sentence. Today is the first reading. It's not another reading. I'm asking those present to turn off their cell phones. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5642	Dear gentlemen, this is another proof that there is a confusion in the work of the House and I ask that the College be the conclusion of this house, that this house requires two colleagues to meet and agree on a way to work. It is no longer known, literally what is happening in the Parliamentary Assembly. What laws have been passed by the House of Peoples, which we have, what they have given as amendments. We place here both in an awkward position and the Council of Ministers and this home and another home. I think the best way to get you to sit down with the College of the House of Peoples is to agree once and for all to know the order of events in the Parliamentary Assembly. We're a congregation. It turns out we're two congregations that can't be agreed on and here's a young fellow who wants to work, I understand that, but I think Mr. Prlić clearly tells us that it's not what the boy's talking about, and we need to... text to read. Here you go to that extent in volunteering to say, "let's put on a table and we'll decide now." Don't make the laws of God to people and it's 11-12 points of the agenda and we're guessing if we want anything else, and 12 laws are intact. I really don't understand it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5643	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Obviously, we're exhausting ourselves on this, and the question is, how are we even going to bring the session to an end, because there's a law we're expecting a big debate. Please, as far as copyright law is concerned, the information from the Home Secretary is the first and not the second reading. I ask the MPs when they propose or want to propose, to inform themselves in good time in our ministry of what stage the law is in. Thank you very much. I suggest we end this debate and move on to a plea. Mr. Mašić, are you staying on your proposal or are you withdrawing your proposal after this knowledge?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5644	I'm pulling. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5645	Thank you very much for the construction. You have the right to have some facts you don't know, you're a young MP. Gentlemen, we have a draft agenda. I don't need to say it again. Who is for the draft agenda, planted by the Colleges in an extended composition? We plead because there is change. Who's in? - Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - 1 abstention. Of the 30 present – 28 for – versus 1 – abstention 1. I find the agenda accepted. Please tell me if, for technical reasons, I should read the established agenda for the record. I have to do a stenogram. I'll read it. The vote is over. Thank you very much, dear colleague Amidžić. They were absolutely well-intentioned on your suggestions, so we could finish one session and start another. However, in that variant that we decided to do so, then it would be interpreted as the House of Representatives obstructing the Law of Sucession, because if we had put it for the 19th session, the question in general is, when are we going to end the 18th session and that was our reason for this procedure. Thank you for seeing that. Please, I will read the established agenda for the record. 1. Record - first point past session 2. Report – Last session Today set the agenda for the continuation of session 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act – Second reading; 4. Proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH – second reading; 5. Proposal for a Law on BiH's Defence – First Reading; 6. Proposal for a law on the registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions – first reading; 7. Proposed demining law in BiH – first reading; 8. Proposal for a law on free zones in BiH – first reading; 9. A report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to BiH's once-overs; 10. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Development Credit Agreement – Third Energy Reconstruction Project between BiH and the International Development Association; (b) Agreement between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the Promotion and Protection of Investments; (c) Trade Agreement between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan; 11. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the single text of the Law on Industrial Property in BiH; 12. MPs' questions. Gentlemen, we're moving on to the 3rd item of the agenda. 15 A.3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH – Second Reading For Reminders, I would like to say that the Proposal for this Law was adopted in the first reading at the 15th session of this House on 24 October 2001. The Commission's Foreign Trade and Customs Report was sent to MEPs on 9 October 2001. In a timely period, amendments were tabled by MPs: Senad Šarganović and PDP MPs' Club, SNS, SNSD,... who again defend in the plenary phase. No-time amendments were submitted by lawmakers: Branislava Ferzanović and Zoran Spasojević. The amendments were subsequently tabled by MPs: Osman Brka, Mustafa Cuplov, Mariofil Ljubić, Miro Grabovac, with a call to Article 94(a) The College accepted that these amendments could also attend the session. The ministry has notified the home that it does not support amendments by MPs Osman Brk and Mustafa Cupl. Here you go, gentlemen. Who's answering for the word? Do we have in front of the resolution ministry or in front of the rapporteur's commission, or whoever wants to address the House of Representatives? If not, I give my colleague a word to the Cuplov who answered for the word. Here's your colleague, Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5646	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, respecting the suggestion made by viejće Ministers, with a desire to start negotiations with the World Trade Organisation to continue successfully and wanting this very important matter by law given in the form in which it is in this Parliament to allow for further procedural, positive outcome of negotiations, I withdraw amendments, with a particular desire that in the parliamentary procedure and these other amendments enter into the procedure during January of the month, so as to enable amendments and additions to customs tariffs, in a certain way, primarily to protect domestic production and stimulate exports, which is the basic reason for applying the amendment was by me and most, as I know other MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5647	Thank you very much, colleague Cuplov. Here you go, fellow Bogić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5648	Ladies and gentlemen, the SDP MPs' Club has its amendments to this law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. However, given that it has arrived within the deadline, which is beyond these deadlines, a large number of amendments, and our wish is for this law to be adopted by the New Year, in order for BiH to be admitted to the World Trade Organisation, we suggest, if possible, to all MPs and Members' clubs to withdraw their amendments, this would also be done by the SDP and today to adopt amendments and amendments to the Law as proposed by the Council of Ministers. That's number one. Under number 2), this parliament should adopt a conclusion, that all amendments come to this Parliament's agenda in January and be adopted as amendments and complemented by today's legislation. So, all amendments, which will pass the procedure and the commission and as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, in this way, in my opinion, we would be able to further our work 16 and not lose much time in adopting this law, and otherwise, if the amendments today are on the agenda of this Parliament and the SDP will remain with their amendments and defend them at this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5649	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5650	Mr. Chairman, dear guests, I just want to ask the Kolegiju or the Chairman, which is why my amendment did not enter the regular procedure when I sent it on 31.10.2001?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5651	Finish up and I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5652	I had the right to refuse on the Commission to... defend.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5653	Yeah, 48 hours before the session. I'm asking the secretary at home to brief us on the facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5654	According to the data we have, the amendments were submitted by our MPs Branislava Ferzanović and Zoran Spasojević. Mrs Ferzanović 25.10.O.G. and Mr. Zoran Spasojević 31.10. The law was adopted in the first reading on 24.10.2001, so the deadline for investing the amendments was 48 hours before the start of the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5655	Thank you very much. Who's picking up now? Mr. brkati and Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5656	Dear Presidency, I've been brought into an awkward situation. I see everyone pulling the amendments and I don't know, if we came into this situation, then I should do it, but I can't do it without explaining to you what my amendment is and what it is, and if it was received by the MPs, but I would have it for the public to know what the amendment is about. In fact, it is very clear to me that, from this Parliament, reporters report some special criteria, so if we do not explain, the public will certainly not hear what certain MPs say about some law or about their amendment. My amendment referred to the 17th Amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Borders and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, which applies to Article 4 to the second item behind the first item, which reads: For finished products serving final consumption and originating in countries applying the visa regime, a special customs tax of up to 15% of the value of these products is introduced and the explanation is the following. It is known that at the level of the European community and most Eastern bloc countries, visa regimes are applied to BiH. Among other states is the Republic of Slovenia, and if there is a lot of talk about integration and regionalisation these days, many countries are acting contrary to the very negative impact of BiH's economic progress. Our eastern countries introduced visas, under the pretext of admission to the EC, without introducing visas for Slovenia and Croatia. In our conditions like this, we need to give priority to people in relation to goods and capital. The VTO advocates the free market and the predication of goods and capital and we also advocate, we give priority to people i.e. Freedom of movement, which is a condition for faster and better movement of goods and capital. I'm not any economist, but I know so much that when it comes to economics, it's about people's movements, goods and capital. Our people have been disabled from normal movement and it is generally known that the world's devastations are working all the time and our people have been waiting in line for days in front of the embassy to get visas to enter those countries. The establishment of this provision would provide funds, which could be targeted for example. in the form of favourable loans, focus on the development of prospective BiH producer companies. This would certainly be a temporary measure and would be in effect until BiH's entry into the European community or would not apply to those countries that truly want a correct and equal relationship between market movements carriers. Just another little comment. The economy of Slovenia flooded BiH's market and privatisation. Our businessmen can't get a visa to go to Slovenia. What kind of treatment is that? Who will protect our people, if not us and our Council of Ministers. I think we need to go to Europe and we don't need to have Europe making tarabs for our people and that practically every mark out of BiH is coming out of here. Or, say, the latest example. Romania introduces visas for our people to Romania and exports Romanians to us for years, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5657	Thank you very much, colleague brkati. And my colleague Bilbija, he's a friend of Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5658	Dear gentlemen, as far as I'm aware of the compliance of this law, it's been working for two years. We've come to a point where we're very close to agreeing to this law. There's a lot of us here that we've put in amendments. I'm not claiming for one moment that almost all these amendments are not good and that they could not be incorporated into the law. But we still need to respect some international standards. If we are now going to consider amendments one by one to work on it, I think there might be 18 situations to adopt an amendment, not because at this point we are not aware whether or not it can, it should be interpreted professionally. Therefore, my proposal is that, it seems to me, Mr Bogićević has made it one part earlier that the clubs, i.e. MPs, withdraw their amendments and I am ready on behalf of the club to withdraw the amendments to this law today, and this proposal that all these amendments, which have been tabled immediately after this year, will be taken seriously, is there any reason not to amend and supplement this law during January, achieve agreement to make it to one end, but I think that today would lose time and not complete it, neither this law nor any of this planned agenda. So here's what I'm saying, I'm ready to withdraw the amendments on behalf of the club, but I won't, either, if someone doesn't, I won't vote for any of that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5659	Thank you very much. Mr. Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5660	Mr. Chairman, since I have the right under Article 94a) to presently submit an amendment, but I also agree with my colleague Bogićević and my colleague Bilbija, if all amendments are not discussed, let not this one be debated either, if they argue that we all go together in January to debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5661	My kolega Spasojević, I am pleased to see that you have failed to submit the amendments in good time. Thank you for being correct. I don't think the College has any reason not to respect your current proposal, that, therefore, your amendment goes to Article 94(3). Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Ramiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5662	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Party of Democratic Action Club will support the law in the proposed text by adopting, in addition to the Act, the conclusion, not only to consider amendments that have arrived, but to give the task, therefore, to task the Council of Ministers, to propose within 30 days amendments to the BiH Customs Tariff Act, with the aim of encouraging and protecting its own production. I know that all the amendments proposed by the colleagues are heading in that direction, but the Council of Ministers must take care of BiH's economy and such a conclusion should go with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5663	Thank you. Who's answering for a word? As I can see, no one's answering. Mr. Ljubić. Here you go, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5664	Dear Chairman, our obvious goal today is to adopt this law, so that we can adopt these amendments and supplement the law. My two amendments I have made are identical to the amendments adopted in the House of Peoples. If I pull out, then we don't have the law again. So I'm withdrawing the amendments to get us in line. Shouldn't it be better if the amendments already adopted in the House of Peoples, which the Council of Ministers accepted to adopt. I would ask the Council of Ministers' status on these two amendments, because I have information that they are supported in the House of Peoples. I don't see any reason why we're even discussing today when we won't have the law until the first month, because there's no meeting of the House of Peoples. Only at the next session of the House of Peoples can it form its own committee, so at some next session we will form our own committee and we have no laws again for two three months and we want to change and supplement that we have in the first month. So it's not a problem. I don't defend the amendments because you think that I care now that I'm just defending the amendments so that they pass and the others wait for the first month, because I'm practically telling you, if they're different texts, the House of Peoples only in the first session can only form a commission and we can only form a commission on the next one, and now you see when this law can be agreed on, so we don't have a practical one.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5665	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Prlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5666	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law has been in the process for over a year. He was sent a year ago in the previous assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly and, in fact, there is no change in this law compared to the current situation, especially these two or three small ones mentioned here. The word is that I combine the customs rate. The existing ones are added by the Prelemans, so they can start negotiations with the World Trade Organisation. Our negotiations have been late for a year just for that. We cannot establish a memorandum as a basis for starting negotiations until we have adopted a customs tariff. That's why it's important that the customs tariff is adopted so that we can adopt the memorandum and start negotiations, that's our negotiating base. If we are to reduce further rates now, we are entering this whole process with a worse negotiating base, otherwise all teams are ready. More than 50 people have been hired, all training has been done, and we appreciate that in a year we can conclude negotiations. We are negotiating with 144 countries of the World Trade Organisation, which is a huge process. If we do it again today, we're actually just doing it for our own damage. There's no customs tariff that's good. Everyone has a partial interest. Even with the best intentions. And when we talk about the need to increase rates, it should be borne in mind that these increased customs rates will be paid by the local population. So it goes to the expense of domestic citizens, domestic poor. It pays higher prices based on increased customs rates. It's a very important fiscal effect for us. 20 This is the basic income of an entity from which both social and other protection is financed, and finally this element is protected. This is where these different interests and trade and producers and small-owned etc. are broken. The requirement is that we line up, remove and minimal now on the re-promatter. At first glance, that's great. But what about BiH's repromated producers. When we put everything in that context, I'm not saying that this is the best tariff possible, it's far from the best tariff, but I'd ask this House of Representatives to accept this and get into the process of borderline and supplementation, with us not being able to increase our rates anymore. We're talking about connecting the visa system to this. These two things cannot be tied down, which is why, because we cannot increase the rates since this is a condition of the European Union. Last year, the European Union unilaterally decided that all BiH goods should go without paying customs duties on the market of these 15 member states, provided there is no change in the rate in the country in which the system was approved. Our exports to the European Union are the condition of our survival. It's 60-70% of exports in all variations to be in those countries and it's the biggest market in the world. So, I'd like to ask you to accept this tariff. Let her later go into the process of perfection and I think it's very important, maybe she's coming out of the context of what I have the right to say as a minister. This type of law systemical, systematic laws adopts the House of Representatives and he is the main home in this. When it comes to the House of Nations, it should represent specific interests of the people, etc. and not to be in a defensive home that makes key decisions on behalf of citizens that are primarily reflecting the effects of this law that is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5667	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5668	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear guests, I, too, would like to make part of the proposal by MP Vilić on the conclusion that the Council of Ministers undertakes to propose to us as soon as possible a concept, an optimum of the concept of new tariffs from the aspect of a series of amendments that were at the level of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I also feel the same need to say that this is a vital document in the field of economic policy, in particular a document that dynamicises and economic transition in BiH, and in this context cannot be taken away from the impression that today we have achieved a high degree of political consensus and that we are entitled to give confidence to the original text of the law, which the Council of Ministers proposed a year ago entered the parliamentary procedure on 27 May. We have not yet verified this document by emergency procedure, which means that I am pleading to adopt the law in the concept and in the system of customs tariffs proposed by the Council of Ministers. I believe that the Council of Ministers must offer us the optimum between the burden, the fiscal burden on the consumer of BiH citizens and the possibility, conditionally said, so as to protect domestic production and domestic products. We think that part of this optimum is on the right path of this law, and in this sense it would be 21 good for fellow Ljubić, since it will be necessary to agree with the House of Peoples in peace with the two committees, which will be set up, we can already set up our own today to try to bring these amendments, which are an integral part of the House of Nations, and simply to adopt today's House of Representatives in the original text of the law proposed by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5669	Thank you. Mr. Grabovac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5670	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I don't understand one thing as far as we're going to deceive ourselves here and the public as it takes us to access the VTO. Whoever knows the way to the European Union and how to enter the VTO and how to prepare the economy of a country to enter the VTO, then knows that it is not true what is said. The fact is, the amendments I made and most of you here are to protect domestic production. We say that we need to open new jobs, we need to increase production and these tariffs, which, at least where I've noticed and how we crash domestic production and not protect. So I can't get the impression that we're talking about each other and do everything else. This is where we introduced and protected some of the products we have in BiH, let's say we protected beer, but we didn't protect some wine, some alcoholic beverages. Secondly, if we want to, which means to a foreign investor if domestic production is not protected, in which way he will give a license to someone who can produce, let's say some alcoholic beverages, which are already produced in BiH if there are no these customs rates, which allow the country's budget to develop economy and create new jobs. He means there's no interest in that, a license to anyone. Which is why, because there are no customs rates and he directly imports it and that's why we crash domestic production, or we don't develop it at all, and as far as I'm concerned, I won't withdraw my amendments. I believe that my amendments protect domestic production, protect people who live from their work and contribute to BiH's development, and by introducing these customs rates, it's charging the BiH budget so that we don't debate the distribution of former Yugoslavia's funds, here's a chance to protect domestic production, fill the budget, and bring the economy back to life and create new jobs and allow people to stay in BiH. This, nothing, well said Mr. Prlić, nothing essential, or at least, changes too much in relation to the existing tariffs, with it being done here exactly to develop trade rather than production, with it having downloaded some rates, or introducing some other customs rates, where it is possible to smuggle rather than develop. For these reasons, I cannot and will not withdraw these amendments, and if I know it will not pass, but here we will all be responsible to the public for what we are doing and we claim that we want domestic production, that we want to develop BiH and we will not protect its production, then we have nothing to talk about. Entry into VTO Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as other countries, Croatia is far closer and within it is all and has protection mechanisms of domestic products and we are letting here 22 imports who will, or whoever dictates customs rates at the moment they meet it, what kind of goods come into the market and who has... I cannot raise my hand for that part and I believe that domestic production must be protected, if we want good for ourselves and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5671	I don't think anyone's answering for a word. I suggest we go to the end. We have three things to say here. First they're amendments, we'll see who's left and we'll have to make a statement. Secondly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act and, thirdly, the conclusion on which the Council of Ministers would be obliged by the end of January to prepare a new text of the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, on the basis of amendments and discussions in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and to consult the Council of Ministers with chambers of commerce, entities and other institutions, businesses, etc. So we have these three things. Please, according to order, we first declare amendments. I'll do it. We need to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5672	Well, I understand you, too, but please, it's going from the most general attitude to the low, because if we go into the process now, we don't have to vote the amendment to the conclusion. The central question here is the conclusion. If this House accepts the conclusion, then the amendments are not rejected but the debate is delayed. We're going to enter the process of rejecting the amendment. What is this moment for this home more acceptable? Well, I guess the phase, in fact, is a decision in which an MP will be able to defend what he wants to defend. Secondly, I ask you, if you can, how can we plead on some amendments that we still don't have on the table? That's another question. Here's Mr. Grabovac. It just came today, so it just came. Well, you don't think gentlemen can just work like that. Let's get people to bring it in one way that, here there is, I beg you. My proposal is, let's make a statement first on the general conclusion, and if the conclusion falls, we need to move on to the work of the amendments and the end of the story. That's the way.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5673	Excluse fellow Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5674	I can only agree to postpone when it comes to these amendments, meaning they are delayed, but can't be adopted because nothing changes essentially said by the minister, or the deputy minister. We already have tariffs like this. I know what it means to reject all amendments. We have to adapt the economy of entering the VTO, and then we have to take off our feet and we'll never get a chance to reintroduce those rates, but 23 we'll have to take off. Therefore, I do not agree that the law is passed and the amendments are rejected. If it's all right with that, then I agree with that. So he can agree, but then there's no law being passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5675	Thank you, comrade Grabovac. He's a colleague of Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5676	I'd just like gentlemen around this conclusion. I think it's early 30th of January, at least another 10 days, because they expect holidays and New Year's and one part of the members, I think it's those 10-15 days that are going to work in January that it's really very little that people can do it quality. So I did go into the conclusion proposed by the SDA Club, but still, to move 10-15 days to half of February. I don't think there's time for us not to put people in that position that I can't finish, so we get into a situation like today to waste time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5677	I'll have it by the end of February. Because no one's answering for a hearing. Mr Avdić
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5678	I just briefly try to harmonize this conclusion of this debate. I think it's wiser, I'm speaking to my colleague Grabovac, it's wiser to adopt the law today in its original form. The amendments are not refused, but prolonged and entered into the procedure of the Law on Amendments to the Code on Creature Tariffs and immediately after the adoption of today we are, however, entering the procedure of receiving the VTO no matter how controversial it may be for my colleague Grabovac. We enter the procedure and start immediately in January of the month, we get a simple proposal to amend the BiH Customs Tariff Act and thus provide an empty space. Believe the empty space that we can go towards the steps of protecting domestic production, otherwise we won't be able to achieve this project that we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5679	Thank you. Allow me, I must say that my colleague Banjac has made a wise proposal and he fully understood what I was going to say, but there is one business obligation, which binds our hands, which is that we have to make known about those amendments by which the amendment promoter asks us to plead and that, after that, if he refuses to give up, we cannot take away his right, and secondly, after that, we can vote on the law. That's how it was written in the Rules of Procedure and after that, I mentioned the conclusion. You are in the first Mr. Banjac, with your assessment of that conclusion, but I must take that conclusion to the vote, regardless of the law and all the outcome of the vote, because it was such a proposal, so I and that proposal must put it to the vote. I think it's quite clear here that we all got along. The interest of BiH is to adopt this law, because as far as I am 24 has been informed, because some things have not been resolved before, OHR had to make a decision on behalf of this assembly. I think it's our turn to make the decision to show both the OHR and the international community that we are able to solve our own problems and that right away, here, if we have to by the end of February, we commit the Council of Ministers to prepare for us changes and complements. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Grabovac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5680	I don't understand one thing. Which you're skillfully trying to transfer, to pass the law without leaving the amendments allegedly. What are they then? They're nothing then. It's just an initiative. Therefore, we should not be deceived to say that these amendments will later be discussed. That's not gonna happen. It's a done deal. So we can only adopt the conclusion that we are delaying completely, when there will be a session, because about this law on the distribution of the succession of the former Yugoslavia, so that that part comes back to debate or we can discuss the amendments today. And how important this customs tariff law is. I know what I'm saying. I know there's no more running this thing safely, and we're going to bring down domestic production, because we haven't protected it and whoever wants to take responsibility for it. So I know what I'm saying and why I'm saying it. We will meet certain conditions that VTO will give us, which all countries must meet, among other things, will be the abolition of these customs rates. So, in order for us to prepare our economy, we need to know what it is strategic for BiH to protect domestic production. What kind of products are these? If we didn't define it and go into this, then it's a dead end. I don't think you say this well when you say we postpone the amendments without passing the law and we need it. Nothing's gonna change after New Year's Eve, I'm telling you. The public should not be deceived. People don't understand what that means? What's VTO? What is the European Union and what is the Council of Evorpe? There's a lot of people riding around in that whole thing that's what it's supposed to be, and then it says we're in Europe, the European Union, and now we're going to VTO. We if we enter the European Union, but before that, of course, in the VTO in ten years if we enter the European Union we will be good with this kind of work that we do and it will be a success. However, I think we should now protect domestic production and I insist on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5681	Thank you very much. It's obvious everything's clear. According to the Rules of Procedure, the debate is over. We must declare the amendments and after a statement on amendments to the law. Please, the chairman has the authority to determine the way the amendments will be voted and I will try to do so according to the pace at which the amendments have been submitted, because it cannot go from member to member is too many amendments. 25 We have Mr. Senad Šarganović's amendments to the SDP Club. Are you staying with your amendments or not? Yes or no. If you stay, we vote if you don't stay, we don't vote on them. You must plead yes or no. Mr. Šarganović's SDP club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5682	We're due for January.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5683	You're withdrawing the amendments. Thank you. Please, we can't do this today. We need to make a statement today on the amendments. You can stay with your amendments or withdraw them depending on you. Here you go. So you're pulling back. Thank you very much. PDP, SNS, SNSD,.... The club chief said the amendments are retreating. Mr. brkati. Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. The SDA club has come forward. Mr. Mariofil Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5684	I'm staying.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5685	You're staying with who?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5686	At the first. Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5687	While you take your word for it, I realized the SDA Club is pulling the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5688	Specific provisions shall be added to the new point b. which reads: Customs and other import duties shall not be paid on goods imported as raw materials and used for production. The goods referred to in paragraph 1 in the production must be subject to a change in the tariff number. Where the goods referred to in paragraph 1 are placed on the market in a state where they have been imported or during production has not met the criteria for the modification of the tariff number, the importer shall be bound to pay customs duties, other import duties and regulatory tight interest. 26 So, if it's not correct, that it's unique for those who produce something here, who are finally processing to free themselves from paying these customs fees, and if they play the mechanism, there's to pay both customs and fees and interest, I mean, I wish we had delayed this, but out of correctness I really can't give up this amendment. That other self-sufficient one, because it's more of a particular commodity. So I'm staying.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5689	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5690	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, what Mariofil Ljubić said, looks good at first sight. However, it is not good because there are no sentences, if not produced in BiH. The text is missing from this, which is why it should be left to the Council of Ministers to study it in January, so perhaps complete the part in terms of the text. We have to protect our domestic production. We have a lot of domestic production, and now we would open up space to import, not protect domestic production.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5691	Thank you, please, the amendment debate is over and we approach the vote. Mr. Ljubić stayed with his amendment, the amendment he just read. There's no discussion about the amendments, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5692	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5693	I beg you, Mr. neimarlij, the debate is over. I'm really asking you to appreciate that. I asked a representative of the Council of Ministers to plead during the debate. He's got the word, Mr. Prlić. I can break the Poslvonik now, so if you want me to ask Mr. Prlić, but that's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5694	We're opening a discussion about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5695	Then we open the debate. Slowly, Mr. Spasojević, at this moment, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić's amendment lies ahead. I beg you, the motionary remains with his amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, we must plead. Is there a need to read the text of the amendment, and I don't think so since Mr. Ljubić read it? Is it okay? Please plead. Who is Mr. Ljubić's proposed amendment that he read? Who's against it? 27 Who Is Restraint? I ask the members of the College to calm down, to put the ball on the ground. It's quite clear. Since the first vote for 34 attending, the amendment has received 7 for. It was immediately clear that it had not passed, but we had to complete the voting process. It's 22 to 4 abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. The next amendment is an amendment submitted by MP Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan. Mr Titan, do you remain with your amendments? Thank you very much. I'm putting it to a vote. I ask the MPs to see if they have before them the text of the amendment. If you have that I don't read. Amendment I, who filed a fellow Grabovac in head 22 and three points. Should I read? Do you have the amendment text in front of you? I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in favour of the above-mentioned amendment? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Give me the result of the vote. I would ask the MPs to look at Amendment II in the meantime so that they can come forward soon. Present 34 – for 4 versus 21 – abstention 7. I konstatuj that Amendment I has not been adopted. I ask the MPs to declare Amendment II. Who's in favour? Amendments from a colleague of the Grabovac. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Give me the report. I ask the MPs to look at Amendment III of their fellow Grabovac in the meantime. Out of 33 present – 4 for – against 21 – abstention 8. amandman ii is not accepted. I ask the Members to plead for Amendment III. Who's for Amendment III? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? At present 33 MPs – for 4 – against 22 – abstention 6 – the amendment did not receive the required majority. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. So Mr. Grabovac's amendments weren't adopted. Mr. Spasojević's amendment. Are you staying on your amendment, Mr. Spasojević? Mr. Spasojević, you can't give up on parole. Yes or no. Whether you're giving up or asking us to vote. From what Mr. Spasojević said, we conclude that he remained, and in January he is not in line with the rules of procedure, so we consider it more like a style expression. Thank you very much, Mr. Spasojević. 28 No more amendments. Have we forgotten anyone? We didn't. I ask the MPs to plead, obviously no amendment has been accepted. It is before us the text of the law which is the proposal of the Council of Ministers. I ask the MPs to state who's in favor of the proposed law? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I didn't get the report, but I can see it's unanimous. 33 Messengers are present – 33 for. Thank you. We have shown that we are able to do our jobs and that we are slowly taking over part of the OHR's legislative jurisdiction, not that we are asking the OHR to solve our problems. Please, gentlemen, here's the conclusion. The conclusion that it obliges the Council of Ministers to prepare by the end of February, I think it is realistic, a draft law on amendments to this law in agreement, respecting the debate and amendments tabled in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in agreement with chambers of commerce, entity governments and other entities that consider it necessary. I'm putting forward a proposal for a vote. Until the end of February. My colleague Spasojević accepted February, I think. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm saying it again in unanimity. 33 Messengers present – 33 for. The Single Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act has been adopted. Gentlemen, since the House of Peoples passed the Law, we assume there are differences. I suggest that we adopt it immediately tonight, select three members of the committee for the co-ordination and ask that we do so immediately, if possible now, if it is not possible for the club's bosses to agree on it during the session. Can we do it now? I'm asking for suggestions. We must respect the national structure - the constitutionality of the people, meaning from each nation one MP at a time. Here you go. We have a proposal from Mr. Bogić to be Mr. Avdić, Mr. Ljubić and Mr. Bilbija. Any other suggestions? If you don't have a vote, I'll put it to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? - 1 abstention. 33 MPs present – 32 – abstention 1. I find that we have chosen a commission and wish them successful work in the new year. The law has been passed. Mr. Grabovac, you know what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and we don't need to explain it to you as head of the club. We're going to the fourth point. Excuse me just one explanation. Please, gentlemen, in the meantime, you have received a table of invitations from the Presidential House to the Council of Minsitare on 20 December, which states that the session will take place on Friday, December 28th, i.e. 29 today is held a session of the College of the House of Representatives in an extended composition. I'm sorry Mr. Domazet was misinformed, but it's obviously a mistake in the administration of the Council of Ministers, it's not up to us. I have asked for this to be shared both with MPs and representatives of the public information funds, not to prove who is right and who is wrong, but only for one reason, to inform the MPs who had objections at the beginning of this session and to explain why we had to postpone the session. Thank you for your attention. Moving to point 4. The proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH – the second reading of the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report was sent to MEPs on 12 October 2001. In a timely period of time, the amendment was invested by the Members' Club, and I would like to ask the MPs for some attention. PDP MPs' club, SNS, SNSD, DSRS... and MP Mirko Banjac. They, they can defend those amendments in the plenary session again, because they have met the conditions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. The draft law was discussed in its first reading on 16 November and the amendments were tabled on 11 October etc. Here you go, gentlemen. Does anyone in front of the Council of Ministers or in front of the committee of directors want to speak to the House? You have amendments. Be my guest, who has accepted the College to attend today's session, with a call to Article 94(3). Here's my colleague, Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5696	The honored gentlemen of the club had three amendments to this law, which were on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and were even accepted and when we looked a little bit better, came to the conclusion that he would have significantly disrupted the law himself, meaning he would have lost in the act of its importance. For these reasons, I withdraw these amendments, but I am on amendment I on the basis of Article 94(3). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives submitted the following amendment. This is, in Article 1(2), the following words are added: “entity, i.e. Brcko District, for public correction issued in the entity, or the Brcko District”. With this amendment that could be accepted, it's the retreat of others, and I think it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5697	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. Who's still answering for the word? Mr. Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5698	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I express only a small fear of my colleague, Bilbi, that this amendment is not subject to the same logic as we had to, after the adoption of those first three amendments. So, I think this amendment also retains, given the character of the document, which should be valid before the Brcko District has even kept the logic that disturbs the character of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5699	Is anyone else answering for word? I don't think anyone's answering for a word. We have Mr. Bilbija's amendment. We have amendments that Mr. Bilbija filed on behalf of the club this amendment I. gospodin Bilbija has withdrawn other amendments, if I understand correctly on behalf of the club and we have Mr. Banjac's amendment. I think they're very similar, it's not the same text until the end. Therefore, it would have to be voted. Please approach the amendment statement. I'd like to put Mr. Bilbija's amendment to the vote. Mr. Bilbija's amendment. Who's in favour of the proposed amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'd like a voter's report. 29 MPs present – for 9 – against 18 – abstention 2. očigleno, the amendment was not accepted. I'm putting on Mr. Banjac's amendment. The debate is over, Mr. Banjac, but if you'd like to explain your amendment, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5700	And you who took the charts don't rush, think about it. I just want to introduce you gentlemen to a few things. I think we're going ragged. Unnecessarily ragged. We're not going to pass the law. I'm afraid, gentlemen, because you mind a sentence or a word that doesn't change anything in the law. It's literally nothing. So I invite you not to show animosity, but once again before the vote, you look at the law if anything really changes. It explains something that may have meaning for lawmaking. I guarantee you that no substance changes, and that is why I am not withdrawing the amendment, but I appeal to you as colleagues to take another look at the law and those who are and those who have not peeked. To look at it, because I ask you to show good faith, that we can get to the law and, for the sake of simply some personal prejudice, God Bog we vote against what we should do. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5701	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. You were right, since you are the applicant for the amendment to plead, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting Mr. Banjac's amendment to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. Present 31 – for 10 – versus 19 – abstention 2. I konstatuj that the amendment has not been adopted. Since we have finished voting on the amendments, I ask the MPs to declare the law, so it is the proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Of the 32 MPs present – for 22 – versus 5 – abstentioned 4. Please go to the entity vote. Federation of BiH who's in favour? Thank you. From RS who's in favour? Thank you. The law didn't get the necessary entity majority. From the Federation of BiH for 20-RS for 2 MPs. The law didn't pass going to the alignment. Ad.5. The draft law on BiH's defence -- the first reading of the bill was sent to lawmakers on 4 September this year. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 3 October and the same Commission's report was sent to lawmakers on 25 November 2001. The first reading is that it is discussed the necessity and principles on which the bill is based, of course, according to the Commission's report. We have a report from the commission. Here you go, gentlemen. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ljubić suggests I invite representatives of the Council of Ministers to plead or the president. Please, someone answer the word. No, I don't. We need to be clear about whether we're going to let the law go, accept the law, and whether we can go to another reading, but today we're not going to go to another reading so there's no confusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against who's abstention? I'm being unanimous. 29 MPs voted for - 29 present. No Niko against, no one abstention. I find the proposal for a law on BiH's defence in the first reading adopted. 32 We move to the next point. I'm asking the MPs to turn off their phones or at least turn off the tone. Ad.6. The proposal for a law on the registration of legal persons – established by the BiH institutions – first reading This bill was sent to lawmakers on 4 September. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, which delivered its opinion on 3 October and sent the report to lawmakers on 12 November 2001. Gentlemen, you have a bill of law. You have a report from the commission. Does anyone in front of the board want to talk? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I figure no one's answering for a word. I therefore put on the vote of the draft law on the registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions – first reading. I ask the MPs to follow the session. Who's in? Who's against who's restrained? - 1 abstention. No one. 29 MPs present. For 28 - 1 abstention. I find the House of Representatives has adopted the proposal for a law on the registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions in the first reading. We move on to the proposal for a bill on the demining of BiH – first reading. Ad.7. The draft demining law in BiH – the first reading of the bill was sent to lawmakers on October 2nd. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 11 October. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum is responsible. The Commission's report was sent to lawmakers on 12 November 2001. Does anyone in front of the Commission want to speak to MPs? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5702	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, the club I belong to has several important objections to this law, so that I will immediately say that we will not be able to support this law today. Our remarks are, on occasion, in the following matters. We believe that the members of the Demining Commission should be appointed from three constitutive peoples to an entity government proposal, for the reason that there is no way around the role of entity governments in the process of supporting demining. Then, with a view to 7 long-term and effective expression of tasks, the execution of demining tasks in BiH, we believe that the organisation of this activity, as foreseen by this law, is not satisfactory. We think that a better coordination should be established between the entity governments, the Council of Ministers, the Committee on Donors, and we propose that a mine action committee of directors be set up to implement a common policy and demining operations in BiH, which would, in its decision, set up a Council of Ministers on the proposal of the entity government. 33 That Board of Directors would answer to the Council of Ministers through BiH Director Mak to the governments of entities, through civil protection and to the Committee of Donors through an international adviser. This would establish, consider, a better coordination between all of these factors that are important for this important job to be successfully done. We believe that activities of demining and protecting life and human health and the environment in entities would be carried out by the Federal Civil Protection Administration of BiH and the Republic Civil Protection Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, for the reason that the backbone of demining activities in BiH is the structure and resources of civil protection of entities, and therefore we strongly suggested that the civil protection of entities on behalf of the entity government carry out demining operations and set priorities in this process. Since the demining of the area is being carried out on the basis of a demining plan in BiH, we have proposed that this plan, to propose a Mine Action Centre for Entity Administrations – Civil Protection, to be approved by the Board of Directors in co-operation with the Committee of Donors and to adopt the Council of Ministers. This provides a unique and fully-compliant system of demining in BiH. We have proposed that entity Makov be incorporated into the civil protection of entities as special mine action centres, sectors, because on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding concluded between the entity governments and the European Commission as well as the currently applicable positive legislation in entities, the only and exclusive carriers of demining operations in BiH are civil protection of entities. In this way, the entity governments would be fully familiar with the amount of donor funds, affecting the priorities of demining in BiH, and in the coming period, as so far, would make a strong contribution to demining and creating safe conditions for the lives of BiH citizens. Hence, these are our fundamental remarks, and these are the reasons why we will not be able to support this law in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5703	Thank you, Mr. Stokić. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go, Mr. Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5704	I'm talking to my colleague Lolić, and I've been trying to keep an eye out for the elements that you've just determined your position on. My apologies to my colleague Stokić. If I'm well registered somewhere at the beginning you said that among other things you're trying to be a multiethnic composition. That's how I see BiH, of course. I'm really holding this for a professional job. As far as I'm concerned, let the Rumun do this job. This is a master's problem. It's not the nation's problem. Of course, it's not a dispute, but I don't know why you're putting it as a basis, yes or no. I really tried to try to understand you, that in the organs that will manage this process, let's say this criterion can... however, in the stage of implementation etc. It's an absolute question of qualifications for that job. That's what I'd like to ask you to reconsider. I think that, in general, BiH, because of the consequences that we have today, just remember how many parts of the body have been lost this year or unfortunately died because of entering into the adoption of this law and trying to tell the amendments to solve the problem possible different configuration of this law. So, I plead, this is certainly not 34 laws that bring key, political, or whatever other questions you want, but it's extremely pragmatic, and it's aimed, I don't know if it can be a more beautiful measure than to make as safe a country as possible. Therefore, the problem of first reading can be set, it seems much more rational to me in a way that we are going to build this law and that any different ideas you have are being solved by the amendment problem in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5705	Thank you, Mr. Bjelobrk. Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5706	Just one little intervention. I would say that we have completely unregulated relations in BiH on this issue and that it should be the intensity of this law to regulate these relations. I understood Mr. Stošić's message in a positive sense, so it is done in principle approach and the principles on which the law should be drawn up, not what Mr. Bjelobrk says. In fact, everything Mr. Stošić said goes in favour of what Mr. Bjelobrk is looking for, because we now have a situation where the various donors and without the coordination of the organs of everyone in BiH, but we have no coordinated moves so that the demining does not take place in the best way, and by putting into office these principles that were spoken of by counterpart Tošić it would be arranged in a way that we have coordinated all activities at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because as far as I could follow, it is just being placed in the power of the Council of Ministers and Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here we have now in order not to spread the subject of the situation that in the form of associations many come to huge donor funds and that they are not under control and may not be best used to undertake these necessary activities that are of interest to every citizen in all Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5707	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. I find the debate is over. I ask the messengers to plead. Proposal for a demining law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First reading. Who's up for the proposed law? Comrade Banjac, how can I count your vote? Okay. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Obviously, an entity vote is needed. Please, who's from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for? Thank you. Please, who's from Republika Srpska for? Thank you. Proposed demining law in Bosnia and Herzegovina – present 32 for 22, against 9. Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 20, Republika Srpska for 2. 35 Laws didn't get the required majority. We're going on a further procedure. The next point is Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading. The bill was handed out to lawmakers at the 15th session of October 24th when a request from the Council of Ministers was adopted to consider it by an urgent procedure under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 7 November. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered a report to lawmakers on 30 November. I'm opening a debate with the question if anyone in front of the committee wants to address the House of Representatives? No, I don't. Which one of the MPs answers for a word? I repeat my first reading. No Niko's answering for a word. It's a closed debate. I ask the messengers to plead. Proposal for a law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's restrained? Niko. So 32 MPs present, 32 votes in favour. I find that the draft law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina was unanimously adopted in the first reading. Moving to point Ad. Nine. A report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on a visit to a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina The Commission's report was delivered on 20 November 2001. As you have seen, the report also contains a proposal for conclusions on which the House should be declared. Is there a need to give an explanation on behalf of the Commission? Here you go, Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5708	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, the Human Rights Commission, refugees, as you know in their activities, has been visiting the premises of Bosnia and Herzegovina and seeing the situation on the ground, and we have had such visits in the past year. In fact, on two occasions, the Commission's three groups went around the field and this is a report from our second field tour. You have received a very extensive report on 12 written pages. I'm not taking him out here. You've all had to read it around, but I think it's very important that we point out our findings here and our conclusions on the Commission voted unanimously. The Commission held a session on 8 November, so I believe that these conclusions are very valuable because they have been voted unanimously and I believe that we have touched the most direct vital things of life that are happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina that some authorities need, it is known which authorities in this country to accept them to adopt and work on these conclusions. I will read these conclusions for the publicist that there is no case as happened recently when we adopted here a very important resolution on missing persons when this Parliament, with its additions, added that resolution to make it more quality. The resolution, unfortunately, has not been published by any daily, one weekly paper or any TV station in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I guess because it's not a scandal, but because it's a normal job and the normal concern of this Parliament about what's going on with the missing, or the families of the missing. This is not attractive to the public, and unfortunately no newspaper has published it even though I was in the hallway dragging certain journalists and praying – announce this resolution that the people know that someone is taking care of it. How do I know no one's been published? I know because I followed it closely if it was going to be published, so if I missed it, it couldn't miss international organisations, because ten days later, 10-15 days later, Mr. Avdić called me, because a representative of the International Red Cross came to ask us to declare the resolution of the missing. Was that so, Mr. Avdić? What Mr Avdić called me and we spoke with the gentleman in question and showed him that we had already voted and adopted this resolution here in Parliament, but unfortunately it did not go public. So it doesn't happen with these conclusions if they don't go public at all, I'm going to do it now, and I'm going to read these conclusions here in the order written here from one to eight, which doesn't mean that's the order of importance to them. They're all important to me, and all these conclusions could be first. So let me read them here now. 1. It is necessary to implement the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible. 2. The Council of Ministers is tasked with launching an initiative to harmonise entity laws on refugees and displaced persons as well as harmonising these laws with the state law on refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 37 3. It is up to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to launch an initiative to establish a single database at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina on refugees and displaced persons, as well as data on the claims submitted for the return of private property and dwellings on which there is a tenant right, as well as data on returnees introduced in the possession of the property. 4. It is necessary to establish an estate fund for refugees and displaced persons at the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also an obligation under the Dayton Agreement. The fund would be charged from entity budgets as well as from dedicated donations. The Fund would finance the return as well as the lending of self-employment and employment returnees, which would contribute to the maintenance of returns. 5. National representation in the executive and judicial authorities as well as in the media based on the 91st-year census is necessary. Six. It is necessary to establish adequate co-operation between the Ministry of Health of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Brcko District in order to address the health protection of the population of border areas of entities. Seven. At the level of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is necessary to pass a law on the rights of fighters at the level of cantons and municipalities to provide equal financial treatment to the HVO, the BiH Army to reduce the housing problems of these categories of population. 8. It is recommended that entity fighters' ministries establish a co-ordination body that would co-ordinate the rights of fighting categories of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska. These are our common views, and I would just, now let me comment, as an individual commentary on only one thing that is very indicative and very important to me. When we were in the Central Bosnian Canton. The most responsible people in the Central Bosnian Canton told us that they were safe, not only the most responsible people in Canton, but the most responsible people in the canton, for example in Bugojn and Gornji Vakuf, Skopje said they would surely, they had repeatedly claimed, a complete return to that canton in 2002. Since that's what the very important and very responsible people in that canton said, I believe they will. But I want to believe that the international community, that is, Petrič its authority, will become not only other cantons, but also in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that both entities in the Federation and Republika Srpska will do the same in 2002. This is my proposal for an additional proposal that I believe Parliament can support, because it would be very good if it were to happen in the Central Bosnian Canton. I'll be afraid if it happens in one canton, and it doesn't happen in all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory that it's not very good. And I'd like it to be good in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And one more thing, there is likely to be a misunderstanding, because at one point alone, there was no difference at that session, but when we adopted this document we unanimously adopted it, and I later got one text, one sentence from Mrs. Kamberović where she had an objection to a single sentence. I'll make it clear that again not 38 would go out to read about it here. In the text she had an objection to the next sentence – it was noted that the Minister of the Council and the Federal Minister were misusing donation funds by sharing them with the same membership cards for their political party, which is inadmissible. This is what she later reacted to, not at the session, but after Mrs. Kamberović, and I am here to say that we have heard this finding from very responsible people in Canton, from the governor and deputy governor, from the mayor of municipalities and his assistants and we have listed her here. We weren't there, either the prosecutor or the judge, we were there, a commission that looked into the situation. In the context of the situation, we just transferred to the paper that we saw and based on these observations we made this report and these conclusions. I ask you to respect this report to accept it and accept these conclusions as the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5709	Thank you. You may have a replica or a debate. Okay, you're entitled to a replica. A colleague Jovanović is certainly a gentleman and no problems at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5710	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Brka said that we unanimously agreed on the Commission, but I want to say that we did not unanimously adopt ourselves in part of the report from Bugojn and we reacted, not only me, but also the other 3-4 MPs, MPs who signed for the simple reason that we believe that the Human Rights Commission in its report can't open up so let's call it the gossip section, because then we could talk about everything and everything that's going on. I believe that the Commission has much bigger tasks and much bigger problems to state in its report. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5711	Thank you very much. Is it a replica, a false quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5712	The members of the Commission who were here were Osman Brka, Mrs. Kamberović, Mr. Miloš, indeed on that letter that was sent to me, except for kamberovički, three other signatures, but I find them irrelevant, were not present. They couldn't have known if it was or wasn't. Miloš knows that, she knows that, I know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5713	Thank you. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5714	I must tell Mr brk that the members of the Commission were not present, however, the members of the Commission who have fenced themselves from that part of the report believe that such a way of reporting is not good, that we cannot enter it into the report of such a thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5715	Thank you. I have one question, colleague brkati. Now there's been a dilemma after your presentation. We were quick to consult here at the College. How many members of the Commission have come forward for the report? Suddenly some of them were, some of them weren't.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5716	At the Commission's session, all this report was unanimously accepted. These are post-reports after the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5717	There's obviously two different information here. Here's a colleague of Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5718	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the members of this committee and I am on the Commission, so when we had, when we adopted the conclusions, we made an observation under regular number 5 and I would like the other members of the Commission to say, so they adopted my remark, and the remark is that I asked that the conclusion could be read like this. It is necessary to provide multiethnic employment in the executive and judicial authorities. And I think that's what I'd like to say, here's what I'd like the other members of the Commission to say, so that means that the members of the Commission have agreed is that, these conclusions were in the proposal whether or not I don't know either, so I think that the Commission adopted this proposal that I said. What I want to say on the basis of these tours that we made both in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Republika Srpska, I think it can really be concluded and at least we haven't heard from those representatives of the municipalities where we were that there were really no more in any of the municipalities where we were obstructing our return. The unanimous conclusion is that the basic and main problems of returning are the lack of financial resources to rebuild or 40 home making, the lack of alternative accommodation and unemployment. So that's three basic problems that slow down the faster return. I can agree to say other problems that are much smaller than the problem of pensions and the problem of health care and schooling and, in particular, what they pointed out in Banja Luka, I think that is said in the report, the problem of returning Srbin to the Republic of Croatia. I think there's a report in it and I'm going to say, I want to stress it here anyway. And I can't remember, I'm not sure, I think maybe I should see a little bit about this conclusion under regular number four. Is this exactly how we adopted him? So I am sure that I made the observation means the conclusion under regular number 5, which is what the Commission has adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5719	Please, I obviously do. We can continue this debate tonight and we all know that the debate will go in the direction of how authentic the Commission's report is, because there are obviously differences between the members of the Commission. Allow me, it is the president, the first vice president and one member on whether the report is correct or not, that the report has not been adopted. We have information that it's adopted unanimously, so we have information that it's not about Bugojna, so we have information that there are differences in terms of point 5. In order not to open up a further discussion of the replica now, because obviously this will happen, maybe the solution is to give this back to the Commission nicely, so that the Commission can meet again and allow all misunderstandings, allow my colleague, Brka, I will give you my suggestion, i.e. that this is also the suggestion of the College, colleagues Avdić and colleagues Ljubić. We therefore agree that the College's suggestion to return this to the Commission, to resolve all these misunderstandings in the Commission, because we cannot now clear the text. Now we can't know which of the interpretations are correct. We can conduct endless discussions, but it is obvious that the report is being corrected and that we simply know what the Commission's position, or individual members of the Commission, was it unanimous, was it not unanimous, who was present, who was not present. That's a college suggestion. You can respect her or you don't have to. But we want to get out of this problem tonight in such a way that you sit nicely in the Commission and solve these problems. That you do not bring problems with the Commission before us and that we are not creating a big debate in the House of Representatives that will only take our time. Here you go, buddy brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5720	I'm really sorry I have to go out like this. Turns out I wasn't telling the truth. I was a million percent telling the truth. Look, we had a very long debate on the Commission and we took positions. What Mrs. Kamberović reacted to later in writing is not in the conclusion. That attitude is not in the conclusions, it's in the report. He's in the wind, and he's gone, and I didn't think it was even important that he had to be in the conclusion, but there's a report like we've seen him. That's all I wrote him for. And he's not controversial. It's important to me that we adopt these eight conclusions here. If Miloš thinks there are 41 here, it's not just me and Miloš and Kamberović, everyone was a member of the Commission here. I say we adopted them unanimously. This is the secretary of the Commission, which I say is the very responsible secretary of the Commission who kept the record and made this report, and I stand behind her making a report the way we adopted it. He may later feel that he missed something, so now he should change. If that is true, I accept that, but I claim that this was the view on the Commission that these conclusions would be accepted. If Miloš is now insisting that something might change in the conclusion before, I'm not because we're delaying. If something is important changes to see if we can change it together here and that this goes into the procedure to go to the authorities to take their stand on what the Assembly is about to take. It's not because for months, we've been waiting two months to file a report. I'm not about to wait another month for two days. I believe that the conclusions are good as a whole and that they should go further to the addresses to which Mr Jovanović should go, and I really ask you to be constructive if you think that in conclusion number 5, something needs to be changed immediately, I will accept if the other Members of Parliament accept if they do not change the essence. But I think it's like this, I don't think, but I'm saying this is how it's accepted on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5721	Thank you. A colleague of Banjac, a colleague of Ljubić, a colleague of Stokić, a colleague of Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5722	My koleginica Members and colleagues, gentlemen, I absolutely support the approach that the Commission has to do with its work, and it is commendable for everything that has been done to go into the field and see what is happening there and to try to help solve the problem of the most endangered categories of the population. So I absolutely welcome that, and I suggest that they continue this kind of work. I understood their work, when they spoke to me and when I learned that they were going as one human, above all, and a moral obligation, and therefore also an MP to see that this category of the population was not abandoned by the MPs, that it was shown interest. And in that direction, I also concluded conclusions. I expected that the conclusions quite transparently how this modern speech is now going to enable concrete activities that will have an immediate impact on improving or solving the problem of that category of population. In that direction I also see certain conclusions that are here, but I certainly don't see a number of conclusions in that direction, and so I'm going to try to make my contribution and explain it. When it comes to point 3. I think this is good, but I don't know if the Commission will agree that it's not a good term that they used to establish a single database. Because that would mean doing a new job. We have two ministries of refugees and displaced persons, and that term should be replaced by a word of unification. So, I think that the data should be kept at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons, but as a pooled data, two resolute entity ministries. Because again, we'd go into a wedge, and someone on the board if now Bosnia and Herzegovina were to make one database for themselves at the level of their institutions 42, entities making another. That's one problem I wouldn't want to find. Especially what fell into my eyes as a positive in this conclusion is words to establish a list of people who were introduced into the possession of their property. One thing is, gentlemen, paper is someone holding paper in their hand, and the other is that man in his possession. The paper won't help him. It is very important for him to enter the property, and for this I am gratefully referring to this, this term that has been introduced into the possession of my property. We're interested in how many people are in possession of their property. When it comes to point four, there are certain problems that I specifically want to point out. This is about a fund that would be made at Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank, and funds would be raised in the entity budget fund and from dedicated donations. Please, I absolutely know that it's just the Dayton obligation to make an exchange commission, so it's never been made, and you as a commission forgot about that Dayton commitment, and you introduced this one. Did you happen to forget I don't know that? But if you've already gone for it, then you should have said first of all that dejtonski was and the obligation to make a commission at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Annex VII, sir, I'll find that. A commission dealing with these affairs, sorry, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, should establish a body that would also deal with these affairs, to help refugees and displaced persons. That's all I'm saying. I don't argue with that. Of course, gentlemen, it is not quite understandable for me to fill an entity budget with one fund, and we have an entity ministry in its field to solve refugee problems. Well, I don't get it. If the entity ministries do their job correctly, legally under full moral obligation and legal responsibility, which will be dealt with at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we are all in one or another entity. It means who we're going to deal with. Furthermore, I welcome in this section, I especially ask the members of the Commission, I say this, gentlemen, that all arguments I face, not that we are emotionally speaking to each other. So, gentlemen, I welcome that, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it goes to the level of fundraising and dedicated donations, that's good, and I think it can be used, and I especially want to point out only employment and employment here. It's very important if it's possible to do that. Next, point five, as I see it. I see her as politicizing the Commission. I don't think that's good. Simply point 5 is not the place in this report, because it does something that opens up a series of questions, and I don't think we should be politicizing things here, but dealing with them. So I think it's point 5 here, I'm not saying that point 5 doesn't have to be solved, right now that we understand that, but it doesn't belong in a report like this. But I'm willing to talk about point 5 in some other context. But simply because I feel that a good job has been done, I truly feel that this job should be done. I'm not about to open a problem with point 5, and I'm not running away from talking about point 43 of the 5th, and I will, if we open that debate, then I'll get involved. So I don't think she should be here, but at point 8, I suggest a text that would improve perhaps the existing one. So it is recommended to the ministries, I would add to the entity ministries, then I would add that they deal with the problems of fighters and war victims, because here I should include victims of war to establish them would add mutual co-operation in order to have approximately the same access to the rights of these categories of the population in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. What we're interested in. We're interested in people who live in the same country that we have about the same legal status under the same problems, and that's why I think this formulation is talking about getting closer, rights equal, there's never equal rights, but there are roughly equal rights, and I think as close as possible to saying it. So, you'd be happy if those rights were absolutely the same and I think that's what you should be trying to do. It is my contribution, gentlemen, and I believe that I would like to thank this opportunity on my behalf as an MP for doing so by the Commission. I suggest that they continue this work and I would like to see in the next report what problems they have initiated, how they solved it, how much they have affected the return of people to their homes and the gain of their property. I hope Mr. Brka is persistent enough and will continue in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5723	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5724	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I welcome that the Commission has started this way of working, but entering the field and recording the situation and preparing some conclusions. But I suggest, I am not happy to say right now that the Commission here in front of us has been so transparent that they have not been unique, that they have not made these conclusions uniquely. I therefore propose that after today's debate the Commission take a stenogram of today's discussion, take these conclusions and reports and prepare conclusions that it will agree, which will be operational and repeat, I am not interested in the conclusions that will be in the sphere of phrases, fine words, fine sentences. I am interested in the conclusions that can be implemented both in municipalities and in cantons and in entities and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will show the results to say we helped a returner, but that we know that we helped him because we were interested in his or her fate and that it was the result of our work. So we need to be able to interpret these conclusions. It is particularly important here to discuss this issue now that we are preparing for talks on the adoption of the 2002 Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. You remember the law on refugees at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that went the way it did. The house adopted an amendment that proposed providing returnees with the necessary consumer basket during the first 6 months of their return. And that's what I think most of us proposed and supported. Those who did not support it, they said they support it, but since the Council of Ministers has declared there is no such funds that 44 can be discussed when we bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2002 budget. I therefore now stress that, simply and in the adoption of the 2002 budget, we pay attention to this issue, to provide for some funds in the budget, and also to support the establishment of a fund that will help the return of the refugees, both in terms of their care and in terms of self-employment. That's why I'm saying don't put us in a position to talk here like this about some conclusions. There are very good conclusions. There are some who may not be operationally conductive because they are more in the sphere of principle. That's why I think it would be necessary to have quality conclusions that will help truly this return. That you gentlemen from the Commission, after today's debate, take a stenogram and prepare it for us, on the basis of these conclusions, and on the basis of the discussions, a number of operational conclusions that we will adopt and whose implementation we will be able to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5725	Thank you. A colleague, Stokić, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5726	Since I am a member of this committee myself, I must say that I simply have not adopted all these conclusions in this form, as far as I know, and as far as I am concerned, in this session. For this conclusion, I would never vote in the Commission. Miloš reacted. It was a discussion to simply establish multiethnicity in the executive and judicial authorities. So we've been out in the field visiting these municipalities and finding out that few are members of other peoples. In Republika Srpska, most of the Serb people are employed in both the court and the executive authorities. In Tuzla it is different, there are the majority employees of the Bosniak people, slightly less Croatian and very little Serbian. We realized that these relationships should be changed. However, it was not mentioned anywhere to be according to the 91st-year census. This is the topic you are now listening to in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's waters of extensive discussion. So these are just big political messages, and I think what Mr. Ljubić was saying was that they did not contribute to solving the particular problem of the refugee population, which was essentially the meaning of this whole activity of ours from this commission. So I think we should take a break now, so the Commission can meet and see what we really have concluded. If we could make a summary, that might be the most meaningful. In 10 minutes or just give one special meeting. And also this point 4. It has been said that it must be helped that the population should be made of some kind. Maybe we didn't get a good look at whether the unique database or what Mr. Banjac said about importing existing institutions that have information, because we saw in the field that people in Doboj said paper from Maglai 45 was brought in that simply returned house, returned property, certified everything OK, but when man went away it wasn't true. His house is busy. We also have a different example that, that man simply sold his property, and he gets that his property is occupied. Because there is simply no communication between the two neighbouring municipalities, there is one bureaucracy that does not want to take down those barriers. We had good intentions to try to combine this information with these problems, practical problems for the well-being of the one population, the troubled population as soon as possible. So it was a message, not now to create some special institutions. For this fund when we spoke, we thought of the fund primarily from donations and domestics, if entities can help to speed up the process, to speed up and return. But by solving the problem of the population who wants to stay where he lives now. Is the Dayton Agreement guaranteeing it? So we're not just going to force one. So solving this problem complexly, we've tried to give some of ours through these visits, our little contribution, and we wouldn't want it to be misused by sending some political messages like this or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5727	Thank you. A colleague, Jovanović Miloš, answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5728	I'll just take a minute. I want to tell you here that this committee really, I think if I can commend it really well, that we haven't had any major disagreements and I don't want to argue with Mr. Brk now. At the very least, there's a record. Mrs. Rajka has a record from that session where we can check it out, or it probably means there's something. So that's why I'm, I'm talking again, I'm going back to this conclusion under regular number five. I think there's going to be other colleagues from the Commission, so let them say so too in order to compromise. So I suggested providing multiethnic employment in the executive and judicial authority. And that's to say one of the conclusions, which means this is 91, and that means that, and I think again, so here are the members of the Commission to be correct, so let them say, whether this was a proposal to say mine and that the Commission adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5729	Thank you, colleague Jovanović. Let me have one sentence. I only wrote down who answered for the word. I'm going back to what I said before. We can conduct a lengthy discussion and the end of this debate will be the knowledge that we cannot accept these reports or adopt conclusions. We won't have the necessary majority for that. Gentlemen of the Commission, you have shown here tonight, no matter how much you praise the work of the Commission that 46 misunderstandings exist, because you have brought misunderstandings before us. You're contesting part of the report. So you're contesting the actual state of affairs, you're contesting the report itself. There are disagreements over conclusions. I can't accept it, and I won't allow it to be called on the technical secretary to determine. Don't call on the officers. This is not an officer's problem, this is a matter of MPs who have or have not agreed. So I ask you that we end this debate and that in this way simply so that the Commission can meet again not in the break, because we do not have time, we have important things to continue tonight. You know we have this electricity agreement where big money is concerned and the Council of Ministers has told us, it's due by the end of the year and they insist at all costs that we bring it in. I ask that we do not waste time, do the work that means life for this country and for these citizens. And I'm asking if you agree that we're not going into further discussion. If you think we should continue the debate, I'm ready to work on it. Please, my colleague Grabovac, I'm as chairman, and I wanted to finish, if you're looking for a word, you'll get the word. You know we've been very correct to you today, throughout the session. When you asked for a word, you got a word and everything, and I ask you to respect this attitude of mine. Because you'll see that in the end we're going to be in a position where we've lost time and we haven't done anything. Please, Mr. Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5730	I must say as a member of the Commission that we regret to say that we have been waiting two months for our report to appear here at the hearing. In those two months, there was an unfavorable event in Stoc that would certainly have been avoided if that conclusion here had been considered and what we recommended in our report was taken and to say recorded the problem that exists below. In this context, I am very sorry that the debate is clearly going in this sense that the conclusions must be revised in a certain way or possibly re-discussed by the Commission. There were dissonant tones around these conclusions. We've talked very closely about all this. I must say that Mr Jovanović's conclusion regarding point 5 has made a compromise proposal that went in such a way as to provide the necessary multiethnic representation, etc. There were others, of course, I couldn't do any more, absolutely certain details, I really remember this because we talked about it a lot. Point 4. We, in this part, want to honor what is foreseen by the Dayton Agreement, but we do not wish to amnesty of the ethnic governments, nor the entity budgets for the simple reason that one of our own is, in my opinion today, a good initiative to form a fund that would cover the basic life supplies of returnees from the first six months, in this same Parliament has failed. You know. Everyone promises, there's very little concrete horseshoes on this plan. We have seen with our eyes what conditions all returnees live in and in what conditions they still remain in those places where they returned. So in this context, I think it is quite justified that the Commission wants all the elements that 47 can engage positively in this problem to be engaged in and we want to make a commitment to our conclusions in a certain way. Mr Banjac, on point 8, seems to me to have made the conclusion of a better quality and should certainly be considered by the Commission if it comes to the revision of these conclusions to take account of and consider. I would like Mr. brkati already and he himself said that there are some compromise proposals about this to try to end this today for a simple reason not to delay such an important, very important conclusion for can be a month and more.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5731	Thank you very much. Mr. Begović Muhamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5732	As a member of the Human Rights Commission, I followed Mr. Brk Osman's presentation and I completely agree with the presentation because he told the truth about the formulation of the reports and the conclusions themselves. I was one of those who later pointed out my fence when I found out, and I was informed that there was a sentence reportedly in the report that the Alliance led the propaganda there, paid, bought, paid the votes. I, in the interest of protecting the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina whose members did not do so, have therefore placed a fence for nothing else. So the brkati is absolutely right not to accept as relevant the rest of us that later fenced because we weren't on the ground. But we are members of the Commission. I don't know why such a complication. Second, he would disagree with the chairman if the secretary were not an authorized person, but merely a technical person. He is also a responsible person when keeping the record at the accuracy of the record. It's one of those ways of working, so we have to appreciate it. So I'm staying at Osman Brk's statement about that, this report that he filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5733	Thank you very much. A kolega Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5734	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to thank Mr. Chairman for giving me my right to speak to you today when you have made it possible for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5735	You always got the word when you asked for it today and before, when you were denied it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5736	No, I haven't even said how many years I have to talk. Not at all. As far as I am concerned, I am one of the members of the Commission, i.e. the Vice-President of this Commission, and I was the leader of a group that visited one of the areas, which were areas in the County of Tuzlan, Tuzla, Calesia and Doboj. And this report, which stands, is exactly the way I suggested it, that is, how we proposed it in front of the Commission, and I believe that it was correctly transmitted and fully transmitted. When it comes to conclusions, I don't see what the problems are here. There are a lot of conclusions that we as a group have proposed and that have been introduced here as well. Among other things, it's not a disputed conclusion, I didn't hear the conclusion that he was controversial, I heard that he was controversial, because it's a single database. I said a common database, though. Maybe there's some difference, unique or common. I've seen that there's this part of the resistance whether it's unique or not. It can stand a common database because it really needs both entities and counties to coordinate how many people have recovered and who are really people brought into possession and I don't see point 3 at all controversial when it comes to that part. If necessary, a unique word can be replaced by a common word. But nothing really changes. So there's no change. When it comes to point four, I haven't heard at all that she's controversial. When it comes to point 5, what is the disputed point 5? Which we wouldn't return and have representation on the 91st list, which means multiethnicity. Does this mean that in Tuzla or Doboj there can only be one Croat and more multiethnicity, or two? I disagree with that, I ask that the fifth conclusion remain as it is, and he was also an integral part of the Commission that we put in the report. What are we afraid of here? I don't think that's good, that's my colleagues' car naked. This is not a good thing they're asking for a change. This isn't necessary at all. I have encountered a situation in the Tuzla municipality where it is not really the representation of the Croat representatives and it is not true that more Croats than Serbs are represented. In fact, more Serbs are in the executive part of the government than Croats in the Tuzla municipality. And I listed it in the report and that's how we put it. So they're missing both Croats and Serbs, and they're also not in Tuzla. That's right, that's what we're looking for. He was Mr. Begović then at that meeting. And she passed on what Mr. brkati is I don't want to justify him at all or protect him I have a need, but he fairly conveyed what was said here. Here's the game now, is this now politics, is that on the 91s list? Of course, 49 in the institutions executed by the authorities should represent all the nations according to the lists as much as they belong. Of course you should be in institutions, in the media yes. I disagree that there are no representatives of the Croatian people in the media in Tuzla and Doboj and Banja Luka and Sarajevo and anywhere. You probably don't agree either that there are no Serbs or Bosniaks. So this solution I think is absolutely right and I will vote for it, or I won't, I won't allow it to change. When it comes to point six, I don't see the same question. Seven, nothing. Point eight, Mr. Banjac added, but he didn't change the essence. Which means, here it was said that coordination between the entity defence ministries should be established in order to bring their rights in line. And this is one of my proposals for a conclusion that we three members of the Commission have signed. Of the lead here that's eight. The 5th was put in, which I suggested. And if you were to attack then for this point 5, you should have attacked me, I suggested it, not Mr. Brka suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5737	Thank you, no one attacked a fellow Grabovac. Here's your replica, colleague Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5738	I just want to explain why we're against this point 5. If you take a 91-year-old list, where is it? In one municipality there were 30% of the members of a nation, now 10% of them live, if you give them 30% of the executive or media participation, then it is easy for those 10% of the population to have 30% of the participation in the ownership. It is, and those other 70% or 90% have 70%. I think it's discrimination now. Therefore, when a return to me is made, it is always important to respect what is now the situation and thus simple elections make sense. If we're going to stay on some of the relationships from 10 years ago. Or if 10% of the population has 30-40% of the participation then they're privileged, and these are at this point, that's my thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5739	Thank you very much. Please, I beg you first when I suggested that we stop the debate and return it to the Commission, you asked to participate and have a word. Now that the others have asked to have a word, now that we can vote. You can't, gentlemen. Now you're asking for a word, everyone you want will get a word, when you didn't want my proposal that was perfectly normal not to go into big politicization, and you all knew what this issue was going to open. 50 let's take it in a row. A colleague, Osman Brka, picked up his word, and then we'll be on our way. Replica Mr. Šarganović. Not now. Now everyone who asked for the word will get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5740	I really want to end this for the best. I'm not to delay anything that can be brought to an end. We can and must do this, if we are responsible people, we must lead to the end. I'm saying it and I'm repeating it now, and you've made sure of it yourself. These were unanimous views of the members of the Commission according to these conclusions, according to this time, then. These are the subsequent events that followed. This was adopted at the Commission meeting on 8 November. At the time, no member of the Commission was against it. To be completely open to only one of my remarks from Banja Luka, which I had entered into in the record, Mr Jovanović Miloš reacted at a session of the Commission and said that we did not agree and that there was no such thing. I deleted it and there's no record of it at all. Here's what the members of the Commission have to say, that's how it was. I erased it and it's gone. So this is absolutely what we adopted on the Commission. The second thing is that the members of the Commission now, Mr Stokic and Miloš, have retarded this member in conclusion 5th under the influence of the discussion at the Republika Srpska Assembly yesterday and the day before yesterday in Banja Luka. That's under the impression. That's right, but be careful, if it's supposed to come back, if that's what I'm supposed to go back to, you see, I'm here to bring this to an end. Because it has that first point of view, Mr. Grabovac, which we put in the first place here that solves this number five on Mr. Jovanović's proposal. So when I suggested, when I said I have a compromise proposal, but to adopt this report to be a proposal for Jovanović in point 5, but if the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision implies that it is 91 years. So it doesn't have to write here, that's understood. Thank you. It was mine to adopt under what Miloš Jovanović says. That's it. No, I'm saying it's adopted like this. You discussed it at the session, discussed it, and that's what Cuplov says, but what's in the conclusion has been adopted. I'm not saying you didn't discuss it at the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5741	I beg your word, Mr. Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5742	I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we all have the same goal and that this is what Mr. Stokić suggested, and I think it is contrary to why his party and his club are in favour and that all the groundwork of all promises, decisions, programs 91. All on your own, all punished. We're not going to vote here, if we're going to vote who isn't to get everyone back on their own to plead, and we're going to see if there's any of us here who's not going to go back on their own. When we draw that line, then the situation will come next. This conclusion of the 5th, I like the discussion of the Grabovac who explained it nicely and was behind it. Why? Because 51 there's nothing said to bother anyone right now. The Constitutional Court's decision, the OHR's position, the position of the High Representative, the decision of our assembly and the decision of all parties here in this assembly is one and the same. All on your own. Is this where we need to clarify who's who's not all on our own? Let's see, now that's a question. If we turn that question around, then we'll go wrong. I think that the Commission has had complex conclusions, unique conclusions and let us adopt this report and make something concrete about this report. I would ask the Commission to specifically specify additionally later that a certain number of famous people, women of children, should be returned to known pre-war homes for our term of office. And there's nothing weird about it. I don't think you Republika Srpska MPs will lose anything when you adopt this, but that even more will profit you, then you will be stronger.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5743	Thank you very much. But please don't suggest, because it'll cause you a series of replicas. Mrs. Bahrija Osmanović, if it isn't a replica, Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5744	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I am also here as a member of the Human Rights Commission, and as a member of that committee, I would like to present my opinion. I really expected this report, which was offered two months ago and addressed to Parliament, to be the subject of this debate long ago. So we're late for not being well. The second thing, the conclusions that we have unanimously adopted here on the Commission, it is indeed unanimous from Article 1 to Article 8, the debate has been held, the conclusions offered have been analysed in detail and proposed to this Parliament. Therefore, for the sake of the public, for the sake of us MPs here, this is how it was on the Commission. Whether someone likes it or doesn't like it is another story. But I expected that these conclusions after the debate would be built on what stands and what needs to be done. Perhaps some of the new reports resulting from the offer and in that sense that this debate is over. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5745	Thank you, colleague Osmanović, for your information, and since several MPs have submitted two months, allow me for the facts and the truth to say the following. It was a session of the Commission on 8 November, but this was accepted, and it says on the seal you all have a report on 19.11. in the House of Representatives, and we have a report, the second part of the reports signed by the members of the Commission signed with 30.11. and received 3.12 in the House of Representatives. So, gentlemen, it's not two months, and this hasn't waited for anything. This just couldn't have come to the session before. Let's move on, just so we know the facts. Mr. Miloš Jovanović seems to have answered the word, then Boro Bjelobrk. Excuse me, please. Well, everyone's looking for replicas, that's clear. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5746	I'm sorry. I don't like to speak lies, and I don't like to replicate much. At this session of the Commission when we adopted the conclusions Mr Grabovac was not present. He may have had radio conclusions before, but he was not present at that session at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5747	Please stop. Stand up, comrade Grabovac. The Replica Bjelobrk Bjelabrk. They're all replicas, gentlemen. So please, they're all replicas. I just have to go so that they're all replicas. Obviously, that's it, and I know you called Mr. Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5748	There is a great man in the Serbian people named Boris Miljković, he invented a famous verse that killed me too much of a word. I must admit that sometimes I simply feel bad that at least the followers of his people can't give what is good in that people. It would be good for others who put themselves in their own nations to listen to the message of a smart man. I've come to this session to say I'm destined to vote for this information is as clean as it is, and I had no idea it would cause controversy, especially not of this kind as you used Mr. Stokić earlier, and that's why I'm calling on that word too loud. You know how to build any political concepts on accidents people can't just go to my head. Counting the remaining as if the 1,200,000 people who are now moved by their happy decision had done so in life were slightly out of their minds. And I'll remind you, Mr. Stokić, that the authorities in this country, even in the area where you live, are passing tax laws that they want to collect perfectly natural taxes from the same people that you don't want to count. Well, he won't be able to. I advise myself and you all, there are some things worth thinking about before, not just saying the hard words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5749	Thank you very much. Let me have an intervention. Mr. Bjelobrk Bjelovrk wrongly said the name of the famous poet is not Boris, but Branko Miljković, and his famous 53 verses are – will freedom be able to sing as the slaves sang in it. It wasn't my wish to remind you of poetry, but it's a great poet and poet who belongs to the whole world in his poetry, not just one nation. It's size. Thank you. Mr. Stokić Dušan answered his word. You have to read more poetry, Mr. Bjelobrk, because it's my favorite poet I've read a lot and hard. He belongs to the world, not just one nation by his own size. Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5750	If the poetry class is over, may I say so? I mean, we still don't understand each other or some consciously replaced the thesis here. Mr. Šarganović asked if we were coming back? Thank God we're back. That's not what we're talking about. That's not controversial. I don't want that kind of stuff planted here. I am for a comeback. God forbid what happened didn't happen that these things weren't that those poor people, I say except those who gave their lives and body parts to the most endangered part of the population in this country. But we need to take a realistic look at the situation. I don't want to, we've determined the condition that it is, we've said it's a bit of an employee in both the executive and the judicial authority of other peoples. But this formulation, these 91 percent, I don't think they're standing because some things just happened. The same are the victims who had to leave their house and move and came into this situation so they had nowhere to go. There's a lot of them, so it can't be planted that someone's coming back, someone's not. We want this problem to be considered in detail and to find the best solution for all these people. That's it, that's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5751	A colleague of Šarganović seems to be asking me for a replica. I don't know if it'll be poetic.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5752	It would be good if there were a little more poetry, we'd be nicer dictionaries. I really don't see anything being planted. The point is clear. Everyone on their own in all the programs of all the parties, and especially in the SDP programme, we're doing it. And so is your party. As MPs in the congregation, we advocate that they all return to their own. And there's nothing planted there. So if we're here for those principles, I don't see what that simple little conclusion is that he's stronger than these principles. Is that some kind of brake? And now we've heard that the Commission has agreed 100%. So we shouldn't take a break or a new conclusion, but simply adopt this and carry it out. So much, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5753	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5754	I'll have a colleague Amidžić for a while. Since all the members of the Commission who visited and participated in the conclusion-making process, there is no point in me not saying what I think about it. When it comes to the conclusions of those who were adopted on the Commission unanimously, there were objections and discussions about them but were adopted unanimously. That's my impression and I'm staying on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5755	Thank you. He's a fellow Grabovac. I'm asking MPs to turn off their cell phones. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5756	I have to replicate to my friend Miloš, because he obviously wouldn't listen to me when I was talking. I didn't say I was and it's true that I wasn't when the conclusions were adopted, but I said the third conclusion was my second complete conclusion, which I suggested together with Begović and Stokić. And by the way, it only stood instead of one-of-a-kind. And the rest of this part of the conclusion I was making. So I didn't even say that I was, but I said that most of the conclusions that are here are the conclusions of the group that we were in that Mr. Begović, Stokić and I were in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5757	Thank you very much. Do we have any more reports for discussion, replicas, false allegations? Okay. Since we have had one longer election campaign, I suggest that this is what the College has proposed that the fine Commission prepare a report for the next session on the basis of today's debates on the proposal tonight. I think that's, I apologize that, Mr. Bogić, you had the right to speak, I beg you, and I don't know what you're sitting there for when your place is there. You're the club chief, the MP. So we just think that, that's what the College's position is, so we seem to have agreed, right Mario that we are going with this 55 proposal to return this fine back to the Commission to the Commission, based on this debate, prepare it for us for the next session. It's just technically not possible for you to take a break and take 10 minutes to solve it. We can't do anything else without it. Here's what I'm proposing to the College vote. Who is in favour of this proposal, please have the Commission sit down again and do this for the next session. Please hear the college's proposal, who's in favour? For the next session. Please, fellow Grabovac vote according to your will. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Please, who's in favour of Republika Srpska for the College's proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5758	I don't think this is such a weighty conclusion. I think it's better if we go over the agenda than we do.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5759	Please, we do. We have to finish the voting act. Please, who's in favour of Republika Srpska for the College's proposal? Thank you. Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the College's proposal? Please report. Please. Present 27 for 21.6 against, abstention 1. By entity, it had to be an entity vote. Federation of BiH for 11, Republika Srpska for. The College's proposal was adopted. Thank you very much. I ask the Commission to finish its work for the next session. 56 We move to the next item of the agenda. Ad. Ten. Giving consent to ratification (a) Development Credit Agreement, third electricity recovery project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association Who comes forward? Mr. Bilbija, then Mr. Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5760	Dear gentlemen, when it comes to the agreement on a development loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, I would ask the minister's representative, or the Council of Ministers, to give us some clarifications, and as part of that, we have begun to discuss today why it is not. Here's how much I see the Agreement signed on 19 October 2001. We are coming at some last moments, but I think without any need, if it had not been necessary for that to be delivered in time, and this time this agreement did not go to the Foreign Affairs Commission, which, according to my assessment, is in charge of international agreements, and we have done so in the past, so he would ask us to give us some clarification, and in the future, he would ask that if the deadlines can be respected in order to get on time to keep the Commission and make it known on the Commission, so we will also speed up Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5761	Thank you very much. Mr. Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5762	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs allow me to briefly address some questions of business and related to the procedure for the ratification of international contracts. I'd like you to follow me as closely as possible. 57 First I will give up my principle to be against this first agreement because it was not on the agenda when we adopted the agenda for today's session. So all I can think about is being against him for principled reasons. But since the quorum is at the border, and such an important question for the state I will vote for all three of these agreements. But please next. I ask the College, as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission, to establish a realisation, communication with the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is responsible for submitting requests for ratification and with the Council of Ministers on these issues. In fact, our Rules of Procedure is inconclusive when it comes to ratification of international contracts. It is unclear in terms of time limits when a request for ratification must be submitted in the sense of institutions accompanying an agreement to any international agreement to be followed by Parliament, to defend it, to explain justification, etc. that Parliament may discuss it metrically. And I propose that, given that there is really confusion in this area, and it is such important problems and issues that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers are asked from today's inventory session of all signed and not ratified agreements and that this comes in time to Parliament. That these two bodies define persons to communicate with the competent authorities of this home, because we on the Commission have the conclusion that we are not discussing things that are not followed by any of the rapporteurs and signatories, so that this area of parliamentary life is full of gaps in content and formal business terms. These my proposals mean that no ratification agreement will be on the Commission, even if I resign if there is no person following it from the Council of Ministers or the Presidency and no agreement in the future will get my vote if there are no people here who will tell us 2-3 words about the importance and importance of that international contract. If Parliament means it has a function to ratify such important agreements in this way and in these hours, then gentlemen, I am building on the dignity that someone wants to give us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5763	Thank you. I think your discussion is correct. Gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Bilbija has asked a question, and I will point you to the facts. May I have your attention, please? We received a letter from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed by the Secretary-General, and the letter was received on 26.12. and sent to the Bureau of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 26.12., in which it stands – We ask that, in accordance with the possibilities allowed by the Rules of Procedure, you give consent to the agreement in question in the short procedure of emergency procedure, which is explained by the following. In order for the loan to be realised and signed subsidiary agreements on the activation of the SDR, it is necessary to carry out the ratification process by the end of 2001. Otherwise, the whole project could be shut down and delayed. You've seen that there's a very large number of money mentioned here. It's a huge number. Now after that, in the same letter signed by the Secretary-General of the Bureau, it stands – We note that at the 112th session held on October 58th, the BiH Presidency adopted that agreement, and that it was signed accordingly on 19 October. From October 19th to December 26th, it is the time you speak of Mr Amidžić and the problem of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency's relations with this assembly, towards this home. And we are here to protect the integrity of this institution against all other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But please, since obviously administrative failures may cause Bosnia and Herzegovina to lose a lot of money, if there is a willingness, if there is a will to accept this to end tonight, and it remains me, please, gentlemen of the media conveyed this to you. I ask the service, if you ask that this be delivered to you by our citizens, that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina be properly informed about where they are stuck, who is constructive and who is not. Because there are criticisms about the work of the House of Representatives. Sometimes they're justified, but they're much more unwarranted. Here's proof that if there's any criticism about what we adopt in the late evening of December 28th to see who's to blame. No guilt should be sought, but the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina should know how the body works. It's not the Council of Ministers' fault. So I called him this morning, today, but this time I don't want to call the one who didn't do the failures. So it's not the Bureau's fault, it's the presidency's administration. The members of the Bureau will not be dealing with technical details. Can we please speak of an act of voting? Please let us know who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'd like a report from the service. 30 MPs voted, 30 for it. I find that the Development Credit Agreement has been adopted. Gentlemen, we are moving on to the next treaty. Ad. 11. Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the promotion and protection of investments Who gets the word? Mr. Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5764	The club, whose president I am, will support both agreements, but I would like to ask this one question, namely the Council of Ministers, I see that there is only one representative here and I thank the man for being persistent and patient. As for the 59 agreement of this type, therefore for the protection of investment and trade agreements, it would like the Council of Ministers to draw up a review with which Bosnia and Herzegovina has so far concluded such agreements and intends to conclude such agreements in the near future and whether there are any more of these agreements that have been concluded and are not ratified. In addition, I'm interested in whether or not it is, it should be contained in that report that one such agreement is concluded with, say, the Czech Republic or Poland which is countries in our immediate environment, which could have a good cooperation with us, because here we see that, let's say, the Czech Republic now has cars that are even in a slightly larger class than German cars, and not to say about tractors and other things. Let's see what the lands are. And the criteria under which these agreements are made. So what are the interests of agreeing with those countries that are forming, so I would ask the Council of Ministers' representative to prepare the report for one of the next sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5765	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to take your word for it? I'll dati you my word, Mr. Mišić. Niko. Please, Deputy Foreign Minister Ivica Mišić, as the issue was addressed to the foreign ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5766	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm probably the last one to be spending a little bit of your precious time today. But I also want to thank Mr. Chairman for one far-reaching and reasonable appeal for voting and supporting consent to the ratification of these two agreements and thank you for recognising Bosnia and Herzegovina's direct and direct interest in both entities and all three peoples unquestionably. We accept your criticism of the delay and delay, i.e. requests that at the last minute practically include this in order to save and make operational these funds. This is a job from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Let me tell you, we're all a little bit responsible for being late, and I think it's a good approach not to call ourselves now and not to incriminate and recapture. The most appropriate are these proposals that stand out in order to be removed to say those narrow throats. Because, in order for this agreement to go into action in time, it should have been given an emergency and a time limit for the job to be done. I tell you, I've been doing these jobs and praying and praying and in the House of Peoples in your home to be put on the agenda, which would be said at the last minute. Because tomorrow he should sign as a subsidiary contract with the World Bank. No, no, okay, I'm talking about executive authority here. I didn't include you at all. I think it's very appropriate and we'll answer immediately. Inventory of all non-ratified agreements and these agreements on protection, promotion of investment protection, etc. You will be given one complete piece of information about the state of 60 interstate bilateral agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the gratitude that you are doing this in order to support each other, here let me give you some impeccableness to wish you both a happy new year and a lot more success next year.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5767	Thank you very much. If we could get this information, Mr. Mišić? Thank you very much. We expect the Council of Ministers to prepare it for the next session. If there is no further discussion, I suggest we put it to a vote. So we have an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to improve and protect investment. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? 30 MPs present. All unanimous 30 for. Another agreement from the same package -- a trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Niko. Putting on a vote who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's being held back? 31 MPs present voted 29 in favour, two MPs did not vote out of technical difficulties not to repeat the vote, there is no need. The agreement, as reported by the service, was accepted. Let's move on. Ad.11. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an Agreement on the Single Text of the Law on Industrial Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina 61 There is no need to repeat the story, we all know. MPs' clubs at a session of the Extended College prior to this session agreed, so the club heads and members of the College agreed to agree on the committee's name – Sead Avdić, Mariofil Ljubić, Mirko Banjac. Since the club bosses agreed, I guess it won't be a problem, but we have to vote. Please, who's in? I ask the MPs to vote. Mr. Ljubić, Mr. Avdić and Mr. Banjac. I'd like you to vote. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I agree with the 32 MPs, they voted, 32 for it. Please sit down. We have another agenda point. Ad. MPs' questions and answers if you don't have them. Please, just a minute, sit down. I ask the MPs to sit down and let this session that we seem to have gotten rid of me, work well to end it that way. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Bjelobrk Belabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5768	Mr. Chairman, the question is for you. I said last time that I was dissatisfied with the involvement of the Head of the Assembly on my question asked on May 19th. If you want to demonstrate ignorance this time, I'll also give you back a far stronger measure. Secondly, last time I asked a question, I asked four Republika Srpska executives for information. Let me know orally what you've taken?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5769	Thank you very much. You've got the answer to your question. If you are not satisfied with the answer then you can ask the question again. The Secretary of the House informed me that you had received an answer. Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5770	...don't defuse the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5771	Mr. Mirko Banjac. Please, I'm running a session, you'll get an answer. Mr. Banjac is at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5772	Dear Members of the Parliament, on behalf of the SDS Club to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I congratulate you and your families on the holidays of a happy New Year, full of health and happiness and more successful work for all of us in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5773	Mr. Bjelobrk, you've got it, I think it's part of the answer. We'll see what the problem is, and you'll get an answer at the next session by the College. Who's next to answer the word? Mr. Osman Brka. The college will see what the problem is, and you'll get the answer, be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5774	Mr. Chairman, I have a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. In fact, on 30 October, as President of the Commission, because I received a number of questions from certain associations, I sent the following letter. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum has received a letter from the President-in-Office of the Commission, a question we cannot answer without your help. We're forwarding you a complete letter, with things going on practically in the same direction even after the letter was received. We ask you to answer us as quickly as possible so that we can tell the public what is the actual situation and what is the position on this matter of our council of ministers. Furthermore, I have not received any response to this, and then again since 6 December 2001, Mr Lagumdžija, the Prime Minister's chairman, sent the following letter. Dear Mr. Chairman, regarding the arrest and deportation of certain persons in BiH, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum has received a number of demands and warnings for the protection of human rights of those persons. In addition to the other documentation 63, I am submitting an act to you from the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the UN in BiH. I remind you that you have not responded to our letter since 30 October 2001. We ask you to provide the Commission with a response regarding the identified problem, in order for the Commission to respond to the requirements for the protection of human rights received from the association. In order for me to get the next answer, which I am not happy with and ask these questions again. Respected in the context of the above-mentioned letter,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5775	I ask the MPs to hear Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5776	On the occasion of the above letter, addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, I would like to inform you that, through a joint co-ordination team to monitor the realisation and plan of BiH's activities, the institutions and entities to prevent terrorist acts have been asked by the Federation and BiH Ministry of Interior to provide information on their handling regarding the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. Immediately after receiving a reply, the BiH Federation's Ministry of Interior will forward the same. So, from that day to today, no one in this country is able to answer, which is why I repeat that question. Who will one day answer those questions raised by citizens' associations. It can't be stalled indefinitely. I, indeed, insist that, as President of the Commission, the Human Rights Commission is given an answer so that we can answer the associations of citizens who have asked us questions. It is a question and finally, I would like to congratulate not only the New Year but also a little with the delay of Catholic believers Easter and Orthodox believers, forgive Božić and Orthodox believers Christmas and I really thank Mr Mirjanić, he sent us all from the SDA individual congratulations for Bajram.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5777	Thank you very much. The Golega Brabovac is whether you're thanking him for Christmas, for Christmas I don't think about Easter. I beg you, colleague Spasojević is asking for a word. Here's your colleague, Spasojević. Just a little patience to finish the session the way it lasted all the time correctly and in the right way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5778	I have a modest proposal, since these New Year's holidays are coming to choose on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly 57 packages and to give them to a home for carefree children in the Federation and 57 in the RS if there is no common money to single out us, to at least make someone specific for the New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-13-0.u5779	Thank you, colleague Spasojević, the proposal is excellent not to vote. We're going to do it like the College and we're going to solve this problem. If no one answers for a word, I ask the MPs for a little patience. I'm asking my colleague Grabovac to follow you. Something's not working, please. Just a little bit longer. Gentlemen, honored guests, distinguished representatives of public information funds, given that we are on the right of a new year in 2002, I am taking the opportunity to wish all of you on behalf of me and my fellow Members on behalf of our guests much happiness and success in the coming year 2002. Also, I want on my behalf and members of the College and MPs in the House of Representatives to send sincere congratulations and best wishes to all the peoples and citizens of BiH. I'll officially do it through information funds on behalf of the House of Representatives. We've got big business and activity ahead of us. I hope that's what we can do. I am concluding the 18th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. This is the last session of this high house this year. Thank you for your attention. The seat is closed at 6:45.
