ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u851	Gentlemen, dear fellow Members of the House of Representatives, I warmly welcome you all, representatives of the press, your Excellency representatives of the international community, to welcome you, to the present session of the 8th session of the House of Peoples. With this, I warmly welcome you, so I am opening the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By entering Mr. Novaković, we are, this home is in complete composition. Of course we also have a full quorum for today's decision. You've been given the esteemed fellow agenda. The proposal is just one item on the agenda, that's Ad. 1. The proposal for an election law is proposed by the Council of Ministers, who submitted the proposal for a bill to be considered under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of this House, and you all know, the many times mentioned article 100 is an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Does anyone want to talk? If he doesn't. Yes, there is, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u853	Dear members of the Bureau, dear colleagues, I feel the need to make public and the situation created around the election law of a certain observation, and I think in my opinion I give some characteristics that would help to understand the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u854	So it's about the Electoral Law, it's about the agenda now, Mr. Genjac. We're discussing the agenda. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u855	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u856	Please, nice. You'll have the option of election law. Of course, I've opened the debate, I owe it of course, and it's my wish, the debate on the agenda, and as far as I can see, no one's reported to argue that it complements or possibly contests. If no one's answering who's to adopt the proposed agenda? Unanimously, thank you very much. I, when I was reading the agenda, underline that the agenda was adopted according to the article, so consider the Electoral Law under Article 100. We've also committed ourselves to the urgency of the procedure. So we're on the agenda, I'm asking the promoter if maybe, if there's a need to say something, and then, of course, we'll make it possible for everyone who wants to talk. Mr. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u857	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable delegates, esteemed members of the Bureau, fellow ministers, honored guests, allow me a few words before debate on this item of the agenda on Election Law. Why today and why by article 100? First of all, the Election Law is necessary and necessary to organise the 2002 elections and show the world that we are a democratic country. and that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina can democratically, through elections, choose the power they want. So far, Bosnia and Herzegovina has not had its own electoral law and all the elections that have been made so far have been carried out by the OSCE's provisional rules, and this is one of the experts who say the most important legal projects that have been before the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, of course after the Constitution in all democratic countries, the electoral law is at the very top and so on in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why it is good to catch one order to adopt this law today and join further activities that are necessary to meet, in order to be able to organise the elections in 2002. We must bring at least 35 sublegal acts at all levels of government from municipalities, cantons, entity assemblies and at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to organise the elections in 2002, and in some ways we have taken the obligation, because the mandates expire in 2002 in all the structures of the government, or in most of the structures of the government. Because we want to build Bosnia and Herzegovina's image as a normal country, and this also has to do with what we have declared in recent months that Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to make an attractive country for foreign investors in such a way as to make foreign investment as soon as possible in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Surely this is one signal to all those who are still thinking about whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is a normal country, whether it is a stable country, whether there are conditions to come foreign investments, foreign investments here, that this will also be one of the signals and indications that both Bosnia and Herzegovina begins with a normal time to adopt those normative acts that say it is one of the democratic countries of Europe. Because we have a chance to be admitted to the Council of Europe. Whether it will be now in September or January, but it is important that we give a positive signal to all those who decide that both Bosnia and Herzegovina is fulfilling its obligations and that we get the right to be an equal member of the Council of Europe. Which gives us the opportunity to discuss some other current issues for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the visa regime that is at the heart of the events of our citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What has been introduced into this electoral law by all democratic rules, the greatest achievements that have been known so far in the civilized world, and that this electoral law practically, as all parties have less, more predicated, we are introducing the highest standards of democracy. Why is this electoral law going to article 105 today? This is a law that is well-known to all of you. He's been in circulation for a long time and long time at the debates on the parliamentary benches and you're about to get to know the details. The amendments in this text that have been made to you in relation to the past which you have had relate only to Chapter 11 of Sub-chapter 11.1 which speaks - the development of this sub-chapter has been left out compared to the previous text you have had. Why has this subsection been abandoned? It was left out because the entire sub-chapter relating to the election of the House of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was left out of this text pending the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the change of the entity constitution that could possibly have a different way of electing the House of Peoples in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is regulated by Article 20.15.a. This law, which is before you, that the election of the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be made in accordance with the Constitution, the current Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, all of those components that say that it is unnecessaryly omitted to develop this sub-chapter, we have removed these possible doubts that this sub-chapter is included in the Electoral Law, we have his development therefore for these reasons is left out. And the change is in Article 20, paragraph 3, which says that all those in other people's homes and apartments have solutions from the judicial authorities or commissions that they can vote in their previous residence, i.e. on the latest census of 1991. So this law has not taken away anyone's right to vote. All citizens who meet the conditions under this law can vote, but only one fence is for those who are in other people's property, and have executive decisions by judicial authorities or members of the commission, according to aneks vi of the dejtonski Peace Agreement and property laws that promote practically those who are in other people's property, and have executive solutions that they can vote in the earlier place of residence. Which does not mean that all those who have decided to live in a new place of residence, and not in other people's property, of course have all the right to vote in that place of residence, whether they are tenants, whether they have decided in any other way by replacing, selling, building, etc. They have the right to vote in the current place of residence. So, it's not disputed that some opponents put it in a confusion that four people are deprived of the right that absolutely is not true and does not stand in this law. That is why I expect you today, as was the House of Representatives of Parliament's House of Representatives, to appreciate everything that has happened in the past regarding the alignment of this text of the law and that with the high degree of your consent and understanding and long-term work on this law today, you will coronate with its adoption. Thank you for your understanding, and thank you for your attention. If there are any further questions we are from the Council of Ministers here to provide you with answers to such questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u858	We thank Mr. Mihajlović. Doctor Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u859	I thank you, therefore, that I believe that there may be some additional views to be expressed in order to understand the whole of the problem. First of all, we have a piece of the Electoral Law ahead of us. A large part of the Electoral Law, especially all those chapters and the content that tangs the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality has been left behind for later. And I think it's part of the law. It is also appropriate to give an adequate part of the law, which is therefore, as one of the most important laws has said. You'd relax the atmosphere a little bit. Let me start with a fairy tale. The fairy tale action took place in 1999, about December when public debates were held at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament in the previous session on the election law's proposal at the time. In that proposal for an election law, the Bureau's proposal was exactly the same as the Bureau's proposal in this law today on the agenda. One of the participants of this fairy tale, Mr. Tokić, then said – what this law on the 21st century promotes discrimination and segregation. We need to look ourselves in the eye at this moment and think about whether anyone has the right to put undefined in a discriminatory position over 1/3 of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to prevent people from ever being candidates, or whether they have passive voting rights related to the election in the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By being brought down in every court of human rights and by the name of this order there, they were representatives of the OSCE international community. I call therefore on this order there to answer my question – should we propose such a discriminatory member in our country and would you support public criticism against those members? In return for their response that they are not seeking a compromise, I argue that a compromise should not be sought among politicians who want the status quo, but among citizens. The SDP offers a basic principle of equality for all citizens and equality for all three peoples, etc.itd. So this is what I'm saying to illustrate the atmosphere. Of course, the fairy tale shop is happening, like I said that year. Then Mr. Tokić was the opposition. Meanwhile, Mr. Tokić became the ruling party and became a partner of the international community. And the international community's partners, as it is announced in audiblely, are equal and have their views. Now with its position is supported by the selection of the 5 Presidencies... (new tape) in this way described as I have read it. And in today's press, it's even said that the election of members of the presidency doesn't matter. I'm saying this to point out that in Bosnia and Herzegovina fairy tales, big words, burning stories, I can at some point get sentences from voters in terms of -- good for you. But we come from a fairy tale field to an area of reality, and voters remain the same. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina remain the same. Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens want to hear from them, among other things, what about the second pension they were promised today to be paid. In order to address these issues, really real issues, essential issues, I think that the issue of the Electoral Law should also be brought down to the right extent and talk about it with cold heads, rationally, reasonedly. The proposed content of the Electoral Law in my opinion and in my party's opinion is not an ideal solution. We just tried to get most of it to an ideal solution, unfortunately we didn't make it. The majority of this solution that we have, without both the SDA and the House of Representatives and in this House, has been psychosized, but regardless of what has been said by the MPs of the SDA is not important for the outcome of the vote, I think it is necessary for the public to make certain, certain clarifications. So the proposed law deserves attention. The proposed law has content that meets the principled requirements of the SDA that have long been present. That's what I mean, first of all, on pattern P2. A solution that has been made, a solution that is also treated by the CRPC Commission. I think that in the biggest and closest possible way, while staying on the legal ground and what can be solved in the Electoral Law offers the satisfaction of that requirement. Of course, I note that the question of P2 forms is not just the question of the Electoral Law. The P2 issue is also a question of other regulations and other laws and decisions of the High Representative and the ruling parties and procedures of the High Representative. The manipulations are possible and the responsibility not to do so is exactly on the side where I counted. It's another thing. We have stated that one of the key requirements is to implement and implement the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality, after which the Election Law should be adopted. Unfortunately, a majority group of parties declared a deadline in June that they would agree to the entity's constitution with the Constitutional Court's decision. That didn't happen. I warn that the essence of the Electoral Law and the actual content of the Electoral Law are in matters left to be resolved and linked to the Constitutional Court Decision. And I think we are all obliged to implement the Constitutional Court's decision as soon as possible. Of course, responsibility is very clearly ranked. Therefore, although the SDA considers it not an ideal law, weighing arguments for and against, taking into account Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests at the moment, respecting the realities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and contributing to the opening of a perspective in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is aware of the need for agreement and talks and to find the right measure between the civil and national in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is inevitable, it will contribute to the vote for this election law. But we clearly warn about the possibility of manipulation with the P2 form, where the responsibility of those who are now on the political stage is that the decision on constitutionality is implemented and that they agree to a stop. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u860	I thank Mr. Genjac. Mr. Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u861	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to say something here as the chairman of the House of Representatives Club of the Croats in this house. We're basically at the club agreed that I should go out and say a few words about the bill. The Croatian envoys' club is pleased that there has been an upheaval of the position at a wider political space in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the proposal of this electoral law that is before us today, because you remember that it is the Club of Croats at the 6th session that has called for a break to get space and time to agree on the position, because then we appreciated it, and this has proved correct that with a little more political will until the proposal of the electoral law can be reached in a certain way. The electoral law is, in our deep conviction, and I see that this and the other so-called belief shares the most important legal project in this country after the Constitution, so it was also an understanding and interest that the political public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, both citizens and peoples as a whole for solutions in this law. The Hrvat in BiH, it is less known and especially, would have said carefully to monitor the activities of passing this law, preparing it. Given that it is a number of the smallest people in BiH through legal solutions, it must not be brought into the position of any inequality or euntual majorisation. We in the Club of Croats in this House will support this proposal precisely because it is unquestionable to remain in the homes of the people at both federal and state level. The survival of the people's homes as a guarantee of protection of interest and of the Croatian people and not proposed, for many controversial provisions of the 1998 election rules, from 2000, forgive me. We are aware that this is not the perfect law, that it does not meet all the criteria, which as well as the Club, but every envoy for itself, and also every political party from which we come has and wants to be incorporated into the law, but it is a compromise that will allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to be an equal member of the European Union and shows that the institutions of this country, which is very important and that we draw ready and able to take responsibility for the adoption and the most important legal projects in this country. We as a Club and in further discussion, and regarding Article 20.12, which discusses how to vote in the homes of the people and to agree on the Constitution of the entities with the Constitution of BiH, will work very constructively with all those who work, initially working to protect the equality of all peoples in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u862	Thank you, Mr. Divković. Now, Mr. Nikola Špirić has answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u863	Dear colleagues, delegates of the House of Peoples, respected members of the Presidency, chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, would say they have been led at times by fierce, difficult and very often unfair debates 7 concerning the adoption of a permanent electoral law. There is no need to remind you all, although many of you are participants in these discussions, as the debate was under way regarding the permanent electoral law. But what is also in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its entities, its citizens, is that we still have the strength to bring ourselves closer and say that we agree our views against the law of the assembly and today almost with certainty and before we declare that this will be the day that may be for the first time one of the solemn moments in this country that hasn't been bleeding for five years. You know, said Mr. Genjac, the order there, I'm adding excellent, order there, order here, and here we come to the permanent electoral law. And it's called a parliamentary procedure and I don't see anything wrong with it. But I think it was time and that two years ago we passed a permanent electoral law so that through a parliamentary debate and its addition, as we will be convinced I and this upgrade today must have had a better Electoral Law than the one here at this moment we will hope to adopt. If we had adopted a permanent electoral law a month ago, I was convinced that we would not have made a mistake, but would have made a huge contribution to Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation with our friends in Europe, and surely that we did so a month ago in September would have been a month of additional joy for Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I think it is never too late for representatives of political parties and political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina to come to important legislative projects based on compromise. I think it is important here to point out that, I think Minister Mihajlović said that this law produces the highest democratic standards. No, unfortunately, he is a product of compromise and I think that these compromises are good and desirable and the consequences of these compromises sometimes and the best standards cannot be incorporated into such important legal projects. But if there is a desire for all of us to find the highest democratic standards a place in the permanent electoral law, then I am convinced that in due course it will be so. It should also be noted that representatives of Republika Srpska's political life made a strong contribution by handing out the Alliance and outside the Alliance to get out of a barren kid. First of all, I think of Prime Minister Ivanic's policy and that, with little concessions or I would say cosmetic changes, we come to this proposal and that we are close today, or today we are on our way to adopting this permanent electoral law. I think this is the day when all those who helped follow our sometimes barren debates, who followed the parliamentary work and sent sometimes better reports than we deserved our friends in Europe to thank us. First of all, I am thinking of Ambassador Voltman, Mrs. Sonja Mozer Starać, who was often a guest of this House and with concern followed by a parliamentary debate, our friends from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, OHR, the OSCE and the Office of the High Representative. This is the day when all of them should be thanked, because they have made enough efforts to bring distant political views in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that the additional 2 months of reconciliation are productively spent on this country's happiness, and I think that all those who were maliciously called MPs and the Parliamentary Assembly that they are resting, that further consultations have been conducted behind the eyes of the public, which have resulted in today's adoption of the Electoral Law. So, to all those who have helped, and even to those who have tried not to reach the Election Law, here's a chance to thank us for being aware that we will adopt a permanent electoral law. And here I am using the opportunity, given that two years ago I was to adopt the Election Law, that a month ago I was overruling my own version to force people to vote for a permanent electoral law, today not a full hour ago that version was withdrawn to get to the permanent electoral law. And that's why I call 8 all those who called for my inconsistency to make sure they were wrong. I will support this electoral law and I think that all, all the negative elements that contain this electoral law are below the benefits of adopting this electoral law. I think that this time we have warned all our friends in Europe and the European Parliament that all the conflict within Bosnia and Herzegovina will be resolved in a democratic way and that we are in one of the upcoming pathways of the development of democratic relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u864	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u865	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the international community, I would like to express my confidence that today's debate on the new draft electoral law sent by the Council of Ministers under Article 100 enables us to answer two more questions in fact. The first question is - are we right to seek this law to be the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers? I think a few years later, practically from the Dayton Peace Accords until today, that answer is confirmed. We were right. It is good that the Council of Ministers has proposed legislation and it is good that Parliament manages to find political interest and compromise that this law is considering and I hope in the final procedure of the plea and acceptance. And the second question - were we working on this law because of the internal needs of the democratisation of society and the rules of the game of politics relating to both the position and the opposition, so on all the political forces that have interests or that we have done it in the interest of a group that is in power? The answer, I'm sure, is also positive. This is a project that is trying to work on the well-being of the democratisation of political life in BiH and in the interests of both the authorities and the opposition. Therefore, some signals, changes in the political mood and behaviour after several years of both representatives and authorities and opposition, no matter where anyone was in any position indicative, that there was a process of maturation and work decisions in construction and some internal standards in the country can reflect positively on a legal act called the Election Law, and in this sense we should say that we had a partnership. I wouldn't thank you very much. It was the OSCE and OHR task together with the Council of Europe to work on the project. But I would say that this is one result of patient and intelligent work, which, of course, had its own different and logical policies that we have different ambitions and interests when they happened domestically, at times from an international stage, were either negative or positive tendencies at a political moment, depending on the internal and external attitude of BiH. It is, therefore, a process in which the role of those who have led to the fact that it is not a law imposing something, but a law resulting from a relationship within which we are moving towards the democratisation process in BiH. It's about those two questions and two answers, in my opinion. 9 Now I would like to say something about the content of this law itself. As you know, the House of Peoples in BiH, its Constitutional and Legal Commission, and later all of these processes that had until this interrupted session today ended with the withdrawal of both legislative proposals, Mr Špirić and the Council of Ministers, allowing us to show different political tendencies and express democratic procedures, as I would say to verify them today, we have the possibility to talk today about something called indirect influence. He's looking at himself in two parts. The first is that other people's houses and apartments can't be places to decide and vote on themselves or on the other, because it's an unnatural place to decide on the fate of our own family, the very state and society in which we live. It was an attitude that I had previously, if you remember, previously expressed in the House of Nations, after one controversy, which lasted three to four months ago in the Resolution on Trust and Reconciliation and the Resolution on Economic and Social Policy. We said that all the clubs of the Serb, Bosniak and Croatian peoples agree, that the sad property is something that must be abandoned, because respecting private property is the basis of every civil society and every serious country and its democracy. It worked out here in that political debate. This is some way to integrate into the draft electoral law and we find it very important. So there's still one policy here. It didn't come from itself here. Secondly, that the House of Nations as a form, in terms of equality and the upper house as it stands in BiH, is unquestionable because it is artificially at the previous session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, imposed as a public topic. Such a dilemma actually when you look at this text doesn't exist at all. It is only about respecting each other's reality that there is a process of reflection, within entity assemblies and commissions of implementation, the Constitutional Court decisions, because everyone is reasonable and knows that this is a contribution to the democratisation, equality of all citizens and peoples and communities in BiH, not something that is... a process. Therefore, this removal in the transitional and final provisions of the House of Nations means one positive, not compromiseable, but one precise political intelligent position, which allows the process to continue. That's what I'd like to say about what I wanted in general about what's undeniable. I'd like to say something now about what's controversial. The question is, are we in the past months or years losing something or getting something? It is a controversial art dilemma in BiH that we have lost by not adopting it as we have so far or that we will get by adopting it today, and there is another in... in Georgia to judge our future. No other thesis is true. In politics there are, so-called. the process of maturation and the possibility of a decision being made at a certain point. If there was no process of maturation on the inside and there was no such constructive role of the international community, this moment could not be as favored as it is to our past and our future. So it's about the real potential of this society and its democracy, not of someone... in which we improvisedly participate. It is called compromise, someone else's, but it is a real degree of maturity and opportunities and the potentials of democracy in BiH. 10 Now the consequences of this law, if we make a decision today when we vote. The consequences of this law, and that's the last part I want to talk about, is next. I have to hang on to it. Let's not turn this into a solemn act. Let's turn this into the first working floor, which concerns the democratisation of political relations in BiH. This means that the OSCE and other interested entities are asked to continue the partnership directly by transferring from one side operational experience and personnel that will be integrated together with municipal, cantonal, entity, state level, by allowing the next elections that will be very expensive to be planned rationally in the budget, but of course that the funds are foreseen in a transitional sense by the international community, the OSCE to the Council of Ministers and the relevant election committees. I'm undermining, let's not forget, the law when it's adopted has two conconsequences. He's got a general election. These are no longer high-ranking elections, has an obligation relating from municipalities to the top of the state and the structure of BiH political changes in so much that we will get, in addition to existing bodies, with all the responsibility of the electoral commission, the electoral council and the BiH Court of Appeal. We must train these bodies to guarantee a democratic process and a transparent electoral process for every candidate, opposition, government and, of course, individual, who wants to run. The second thing, which is related to changes in entity constitutions, has been mentioned many times enough. I would just like to point out that in no way did those who guaranteed it seek change, which is in this case the Alliance and its members and its partners, do not intend to give up on making changes to the Constitution simply because it is not owned by the Alliance, but is owned, in particular by one constitution of the Bosnian Herzegovina, in which implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions must be made in accordance with the law itself and the positions of the Constitutional Court in BiH. I think it's undeniable. It is an intruding and opposition and governmental recent implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court. Finally, and last, in the year ahead, it is not a question of whether we are entering the Council of Europe in September or January, too, an artificial dilemma. BiH has a number of obligations in implementing its own, I would say, declared targets, which are linked to the road map to join the European Union. Our three are strategic goals in BiH. The first is to enter the Council of Europe in order to cross that threshold, in order to join the adoption of different laws, which on an internal scale are necessarily in line at the level of laws or sub-region, but it is much more important than the process of joining the European Union, in fact, conceiving on the issue of economic, social and any other nature and environmental if you will, as regards BiH and third, finally, it is a kind of political, different connotation, when the change of the BiH Constitution is mentioned. Simply, after this, it was normal to open a debate everyone wants about their own basic act called the BiH Constitution, because around which there is no longer a dispute that Parliament accepts responsibility for the elections, accepts responsibility, also for the overall democratic processes in BiH. Where they're going to... take that we'll see. Since I often disagree with Mr Špirić, although in the end he succeeds in this debate there is a kind of consensus on resolutions, these principled acts, often and in this case around the Electoral Law, I would like to say that today he said one exact sentence. I don't like to call on him or anyone else, but I have to say he said something that didn't surprise me. He, nice Mr Špirić, said that in a statement by Mr Mihajlović, this law appears to be of the highest standards democratic, not 11 stand unequivocally that sentence, because it is simply not as a society or as a total relationship we have reached. There's no way we're even getting to the Electoral Law. I believe that this Mr. Mihajlović agrees more with Mr. Špirić than I do in this context, and I hope that this harmonisation of relations with regard to the democratisation of relations in BiH will dare to be realised in one open and direct way, by agreeing that we need to go up the rails to build them and thus build politics and political relations in BiH. Now, I would like to conclude by saying this and congratulate the Council of Ministers for having reached the solution, which allowed the House of Representatives, in the political sense of that word, to overcome the differences, which were on the internal agenda much greater than it seemed in the last meeting of the House of Representatives, and it has proved possible in BiH that the policy of agreement and the policy of agreement is the crucial quality of this, such as the fragile, demorcated path we are on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u866	I thank Mr Spahić for Spiric and his name. Mr. Sejfudin Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u867	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a very important act, in which, after all these years, the parliamentary majority and all the political parties in Parliament, firmly convinced you here, representatives of all three constituent peoples, come to a compromise in the interest of these three peoples and in the interest of BiH. This is something that Bosnia opens up a whole other perspective than that period that we have until this act to meet the last conditions for the entry of the bih into the Council of Europe. I think that with this process, we are entering the process of change, in a way that all legislative acts and the overall legal system of BiH will be in line with what is called the European standards, the standards of the Council of Europe, and that in a way that we are clear, in which one must never and never lose the main thread of BiH's survival, and that is the full equality of all three Bosnian-Herzegic peoples. The attempt to degrade this act, which we have today, from those who, the previous year, the parliamentary sessions, and even the Council of Europe parliamentary assemblies, have led to the level of jokes, we have not been accepted in style, we have almost received, we will be next time, is an unsuccessful attempt. Mr. Genjac, for the SDP, it is an important choice of members of the Bureau, and we stand by those political formulations, which you have quite correctly quoted. For you personally, and believed for yours, that choice will be less and less important. For quite understandable reasons, because you do not have the strength to turn to what is a consistent policy of the future of BiH and in the same days on Election Law, you are ready to say that the Alliance will not adopt the Election Law, because it wants to extend its mandate, and when it wants to, it is not good again. For the party, which today has processed over half the active leadership over crime and other things, it is not good to enter the party poles of this type and therefore I would like not to mention the party here in the House of Peoples in the future, because we are not here on behalf of the parties, but in the name of the constituent peoples, with the desire to make a compromise on this road that we are all trying for. But, in order not to remain unspeakable with 12 of these jokes, there's this great joke that painted this past, the visa-vi of this fairy tale. Little mujo came and said Grandma I almost got an "A" at school. Babo says, how's my son, he's surprised? He says, Grandma almost gave the teacher what she was sitting next to me. Now, so was the delegation that led the SDA in the Council of Europe for years and came back from these parliamentary sessions with the story of Little Mujo, almost we would not have been accepted and all the happiness was that, Armenia received everything that was sitting around Bosnia by the alphabet received Bosnia was not received. I think that this site of jokes is being closed and we are opening up a real future, which will go firmly in these two directions, which was also talked about by the respected Minister Mihajlović and previous debaters, which is that this opens the true process of democratisation and inclusion of BiH, not only formal inclusion, but far more important reflections that will have on BiH's internal legislative system. I believe that this, at the same time, opens the perspective that we have the election within the scheduled time limit and that we are organising elections that will legitimize this power, as a power that is ready to organise the democratic elections, on the principles of the European standards. I thank the chairman, and thank you for this opportunity to look back in this solemn act, to this past, to this past of unsuccessful attempts, just for the reason that today we could capitalise again on a successful, finally successful outcome, a successful work under this most important law, which is why Mr Genjac's discussion is welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u868	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. Mr. Ilić will be with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u869	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests. Nothing is ideal and neither is this law. There will be a lot of objections to it, but if we succeed in spending it, and I hope so, because what came later as a mind, too, shows that BiH politicians are beginning to mature and realize that the compromise is our inevitable and that it is far more effective than any spite. I'm glad that's the way it is. So politicians have to understand that if they want to last, they have to learn to subdue their vanity with general interests, that they have to work with a far greater degree of responsibility, in the interest of those they represent. Of course, it does not mean anything that today, with regret, we will realize that we could have come to this necessary compromise before. In the part of the law, which concerns, in my opinion, the most unfortunate and, unfortunately, the most numerous category of BiH residents, these are refugees and displaced persons. I pray both this time and from this place, as I have done countless times, in the past, not to bring any further confusion among these people, because I think there has been a lot of manipulation with them in the past and a lot of play and with such an evil fate. What I also have to realize today, and what I'm happy to say now, is that we've combined many barriers, which we thought we would never be able to do at the time that we were thinking about them, that we could never do that and that they were unreserved. I hope that after what has happened to us, which is positive, that we come to a compromise on this important law, that in the future we will come to a compromise more easily, that only, because I am convinced that only a fragile and tolerated dialogue, with mutual respect and respect, can bring good to the citizens of BiH and BiH can move on. For this reason, I thank the Council of Ministers, for finding a compromise and for having voted in favour of this law today because of the House of Representatives' vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u870	I thank you, Mr. Ilić, Mr. Genjac Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u871	I'll leave some of the contents of the replica because Mr. Tokić escaped, so I'll postpone it, but I'll take it out anyway. So, an integral part of the past Mr. Tokić was talking about was Mr. Tokić's circulation, and then I read one. If it hadn't been for that demagogy and those firecrackers, this law, we could have adopted something better three years ago. That's one thing. The second thing, in the distinctive style of dispersing fog and half of the members of the party's presidency who are processing, I think there will be a response of another kind these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u872	Thank you. Munib Jusufović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u873	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, honored guests, today's debate on the Election Law is the continuation of a job that we have been conducting back months and before that, perhaps this has a special quality that we are having today, however, debate, I would say something more mature or perhaps in translation we are trying to be more mature, understanding the reality or reality of the current political relations and forces in BiH. I cannot repeat some of the debates that were present here, but before that, I will say something, so I belong and I come from the Party for BiH, which has come out very in principle with amendments to the proposed preliminary text of the Election Law, because we have had a number of key amendments, at this same home and on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, 4-5 such amendments have been adopted, however, some have been said to prejudge the decision on constitutionality, etc. I wouldn't go back to it, if I were to try to explain the argument here for and against a proposal like this now, then I'd have enough arguments to be against a law like this. One general finding and I will agree with my colleagues who said so, although the respected Minister Mihajlović, probably from courtoasia, said on this occasion that this is a law of high democratic standards and I don't blame him for it, because it was a good intention. However, this law, namely its individual provisions, is far from any demographic standards, because here certain provisions continue to retain discrimination, here certain provisions in this 14 law also abolish active and passive voting law. I wouldn't go into his analysis, but you can see for yourself. However, in addition to all this, on a series of indeterminateities, on a series of key things that are not foreseen by these laws, which we have pointed out in the amendments that we have made and others, because many of the key things are not regulated by these laws, but perhaps it is a quality and it should be pointed out, that at this moment, and the Council of Ministers, which it has done, I would say one of these amendments, that it is nowhere near the expectations that we have had, because we have had such an amendment. True, this is one significant reduction, compared to the amendment that we have submitted, but it must be acknowledged that it is one progress and breakthrough made by the Council of Ministers, with a clear motivation, I would now notice, by requiring that, however, there be some compromise. Therefore, I think the finding of those who say this is not a product of any high democratic standards is true, at least for certain provisions I can say, but it is the fruit of a particular compromise, realizing the reality of the situation in which we are. Perhaps the strongest quality is in what needs to be understood and accepted by the fact, this is not the law needed by the international community, although it should be thanked for the engagement it has made to pass such a law, but rather the need for people and citizens in BiH. This law needs BiH, its citizens, is the essence. It is a big thing, one of the criteria, which would define each of us to vote for this law and to approach and enter the Council of Europe, and it seems to me that it is much more important for us in BiH for the first time, that such a legislative project, which, for the truth, falls into line with the first priorities and by the importance of the Constitution, means they bring it, or I hope, means, from this is visible, that I consider what has been heard, that since it has already been adopted at the House of Representatives, it will be done, that we will understand this kind of effort to compromise today on the House of Nations, that is, a quality, which is even far less, more significant legal acts and projects, we have failed to pass, so there have been impose, some 15-16 laws. This is a significant law. It's extremely significant. If we join the House of Peoples to adopt this law is a quality and it should be understood that this is progress, which has made all political options and all those who have contributed to the adoption of this law. So, in this I see, perhaps one light in BiH, in our efforts, that eventually even if we are not satisfied, and here I am saying that I'm not a lot of people here who are satisfied, but that, realizing reality, they have to make these significant compromises. For these reasons, I estimate, I hope that, however, here's the sense we will want, so I am, for these reasons, and it should be considered a good sign for further adoption of new laws. One last thing to say. I want us to remember, like I said, this redacted amendment, which is embedded in a member, seems to me now 208 or 209 or that famous one as someone calls it a P2 pattern. I would ask that responsibility be understood in the implementation of that member. In particular, the Commission for Property Relations, regardless of what it will have significant breakthroughs and what it has done, seems to me in the coming period that it should be more up-to-date, and so should all those bodies that are working on preparing and implementing the elections, that in a certain act, since these are foreseen here, so I would say these certifications issued by this property demand commission are valid, but there are tens of them, I would say hundreds of thousands of those requests that are not processed. Therefore, the responsibility of all those who can do so should be followed, that this work and these activities should be done as successfully as possible. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u874	Thank you, Mr. Jusufović. Mr. Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u875	Dear ladies and gentlemen, if I am deeply aware of today's moment in which we are working and the task we have ahead of us, I, however, could not begin my discussion as my colleagues, because here we have heard a lot of praises, we have heard all of that, that is when we delegates feel that we have a high degree of consent, then we are all pleased, which we hope to reach a certain goal. However, I must remind myself that this law is, however, the product of a major compromise and I have to remember the period that we went through to get this text. I can't help but remember that we had over a hundred amendments on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that it was all to be considered and that it was all to be done and that here after a month and a half we came to a text which, however, showed that this home of the people and this all that the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives had done could reach a certain compromise. However, I must say, for me, this electoral law, if it is adopted today in the House of Peoples and then, of course, declared and applied, I hope that something, which is here after six years, we are working on our own and making a good assumption, that what we can, depending on the process that will rule in BiH and change. So, I think, first of all, this is one big degree of compromise that has been achieved and I'm not going to talk today like my colleagues used to say. We can all, with certain provisions of this law, be dissatisfied, but, precisely because of the importance, we must say that this is now what matches the gray in BiH. However, the fact is, and what I will give my vote for this electoral law, which has created certain mechanisms that there is no supermation of the people over the people, that certain mechanisms are being created, that all that has led to a bloody war in this space in the past will be less and less in circulation. I mean, sometimes things are a lot easier to see on the outside than on the inside. Why does he say that? Perhaps this assembly of the House of Peoples is in this period as it works, and it works less than 6 months many have seen and we have always been taught experiences from some past periods, but I must say that yet this assembly of the House of Peoples has come much more seriously to certain jobs and there is much more will to negotiate than it was before. In particular, I think that the Serbian People's Club is with this structure of people who are now representing the club and the Serbian people from Republika Srpska has the will to make certain turns on the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And finally, I want to say that this political game played in Bosnia and Herzegovina is probably not a game without an end. I think that only together, with the agreement, with the democracy that needs to be ruled in these areas can we come to other legal solutions and we who need to be responsible for these legal solutions and create the possibility that, depending on the process in Bosnia and Herzegovina, these solutions... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u876	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Novaković, go ahead. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u877	Honorable members of the Bureau, distinguished guests, fellow delegates, I couldn't, and not really say what I mean today from this pay phone, because I think that's what it takes to say and finally think that it's the attitude to be heard here. First, I must express my dissatisfaction with the way we agreed on this law the previous two months, and the seriousness of the Council of Ministers has been mentioned here and at the very least questioned. How serious this is also the fact that the controversial texts were subsequently entered, and even if there was no will to cross this law and deliver it in the form of a proposal. So one without this extra part that's seen as being added, then added, of course. I wouldn't say that this was looking for a solution, but it was simply a matter of seeking a compromise within the Alliance for Change. The compromise has been found and the result of the compromise is likely to be the adoption of the electoral law. Of course, I have nothing against that compromise, but I want to say that the code, until that compromise, and after that compromise, is done a lot of things that are not good. It is not good for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The way the House of Representatives discussed this problem and in which the Election Law came to the House of Representatives is all but a procedurally correct way. The way the job was done there, unfortunately, led to some clubs being irritated, done, and done what they did.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u878	A colleague of Novaković. The House of Representatives did this job, and our job is in the House of Peoples. I kindly ask you to concentrate on your work at the House of Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u879	In my presentation, my presentation was intended to criticise the promoter, not this way as it was done in the House of Representatives, so in this sense I felt that the motioner had led to what had happened in the House of Representatives. But, well, that's something that was, it's over. We are expected to be responsible here, full responsibility, and we have so far proven in our work that we have this degree of responsibility when necessary, so I believe today that this degree of responsibility will not be left behind. I have here and certain questions and certain findings regarding the Electoral Law, with all the truly sincere respect that we have come to the text that will receive most and that the result of the adoption of this law will be progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, the findings made that no citizen will lose his right to vote are correct. So they're not true, because what's going to happen to those citizens who are in other people's houses, whose houses are torn down, who have no place to go back gentlemen? Where will they vote? Where will half the citizens of Derventa, Mostar and other cities vote? I ask you gentlemen where to vote 17 and citizens of 7 glamour villages whose property does not exist, or is it usurped? Do they also have how to provide them with the right to vote? This member of the gentlemen did not provide the right to vote to all citizens, although I fully understand that he is a compromise in order to adopt this law. It is not a good finding that until the final regulation of the process of electing delegates in the House of Peoples their choice is carried out in accordance with the Constitution. Well, I guess it makes sense to do so in accordance with the Constitution and should it be noted that it is done in accordance with the Constitution. Or maybe we wouldn't do it in accordance with the Constitution. From all of this, of course there are, I fully respect others, there are other remarks from different positions, they are different. But when all these negative and all the positive aspects of this election law are added together, the Serb people's delegates' club will vote for the Electoral Law. And I'm going to vote for this election law, although only really with what I just said was frankly unsatisfactory with some solutions. But, having, again, I say in terms of both the positive and the negative points obtained by this law, we will therefore vote in favour of this electoral law, and we believe that in the coming period in some procedure, the regular, normal procedure of all that concerns certain remarks will be respected, i.e. be subject to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-08-23-0.u880	Thank you very much. I don't have any more applications to discuss, so we're going to approach the vote. Before that, distinguished and respected colleagues, I thank you for the tolerance of the debate, for a politically thought-out and professional debate, because we have done an important job today. Please, who is it to adopt the proposed Electoral Law? Thank you, dear colleagues. We unanimously adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law. Let me conclude that the law has been adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives and that it is now an official act of our country. Of course as chairman I'll use it, I'll use a minute just to figure out, just to underline what you said we did an important job, that it took a lot of patience, a lot of compromises. I want to thank my esteemed colleagues Tokić and Špirić, because this summer we have consulted with you, agreed, joined this session and continued the 6th session, and this is the result of today's debate, which is why I am very pleased. The seat is over. Thank you very much. End of session at 13.25.
