ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u1	Gentlemen, honored delegates, your Excellency, honored guests, I am opening the Constitutional Session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 2.3. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina are scheduled for the first session, in this case the constitutional session, until the chairman is elected, to be chaired by the oldest elected delegate as president. I am taking this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to thank all the delegates and members of the College in the old congregation, on behalf of the delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the old assembly, for one co-operation and a correct relationship in our work during the previous term of office. I would like to thank all the secretaries of the Secretariat and the Professional Service, who have helped us prepare the sessions and prepare the material, and I would especially like to thank the representatives of the international community, especially the representatives of the Pharisees who have made certain efforts in the equipment section, and also to create conditions for better work of the Parliamentary Assembly, and to thank and to thank for their appropriate suggestions in order to improve and improve our work. This is also an opportunity for you delegates to the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the new assembly to wish you a truly fruitful and successful work and I want you to have less problems in your work than we have. I hope so, and I honestly expect it to be. I ask Mr. Ilija Šimić to take the post of temporary chairman. Once again, I thank everyone, and I want a lot of success in the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u2	I thank Mr. Ljubičić, of course, there is always a criterion for someone to do this job on. I don't like this guy, which he's on today, but that's not why we don't show satisfaction that this house when it's being built will be ready for serious work, which, by the way, has to be done by the Constitution and on our occasions, means that people are in good years. I warmly welcome you all, dear envoys and delegates, respected Excellencys, honored guests, distinguished ministers, let us begin today's agenda. As much as this is just a constitutive or should it be said at all, just, therefore, as important as this is a constitutive session, it is because here we are finishing a cycle of implementation of the election results in BiH, so this 2 cycle ends, it has already been said many times that it has been a long time since the elections were and here we are now finishing that cycle. In order for us to continue working with full legitimacy, allow me to read which envoys, delegates make up this tall home. Of course, you'll understand that, in this way and the first session, if I don't do something best in the procedure, the Secretary of the House will suggest, we'll fix it, and I ask you in advance not to mind, because it won't do any harm to our result today. From the ranks of the Bosniak people, delegates, the envoys are Džaferović Šefik, Genjac Halid, Jusufović Munib, Spahić Ibrahim, Tokić Sejfudin. From the order of the Croatian people, the envoys are Divković Ivo, Ivanković Jerko, Sušac Niko, Šimić Ilija, Živković Ivo. From the order of the Serb people, delegates comprise Ilić Dragutin, Novaković Momčilo, Rodić Dragutin, Špirić Nikola, Turjančanin Goran. We can find out that they're here, that there's a quorum here, that everyone here is present, as far as I know, except for Dr. Crescent. Halid Genjac, who is officially absent and I find that kind of absence. After this, when we have come to know who makes up this high house, I invite you to read the oath, the oath, to accept this high duty by constitutional procedure and by our will. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u3	I pledge to exercise my trust in my duty knowingly. Respect the BiH Constitution. Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. It's a pleasure to congratulate you and ask you to finally sign these statements. Let me suggest today's agenda. 1. Founding clubs of the people; 2. Selection of the Chairs and Vice-Presidents of the House of Peoples; 3. The election of members of the committees of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on this agenda or on any additions. No Niko's answering. Let me ask you to vote for this agenda. Please, who's in? Thank you. 3 Is anyone against it, or has someone abstained? Thank you. I find that with the votes of all present, we have adopted the agenda. Of course, we're going to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The establishment of clubs of the people According to our rules of procedure, in particular its Article 4, are intended, of course, for three clubs, in alphabetical order, the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian delegations-delegates club. I think the good part of the job, the previously needed work and the conversation between the chosen, is done, but, of course, it's not finished, and I have to ask for a 15-minute break to get the clubs established, and then we'll meet in this place. I feel sorry for those who are welcome here as a guest of observers, media, etc., but we have to treat that part of the job that way and that's how we're going to do it. Thank you, I'll see you, I hope in 15 minutes. I'm asking you to wait a little while longer. The guest delegates' club still works. We go in alphabetical order, it's the most common logic of the work, when we have more elements of one item on the agenda, so I ask a representative of the Bosniak People's Club to let us know about the establishment of the club and the choice of club president, or a proposal for club president and possibly vice president of the club, and then we'll do it in a row. Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, your Excellency, as it is said, the Club has been established. The president of the club is me, so Jusufović Munib. Do I need to make any further suggestions from the club? No, I don't. As for Deputy Club, this time we didn't choose a deputy. We'll do it in the next session for justifiable reasons, because we weren't all there. Therefore, it will not interfere with the work, so this time, it means that only the president has been elected, and at the next session of the club we will choose a deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u5	I thank my colleague, Jugufović. He won't disturb, of course, the business is allowed to elect a president, and then we can pick the vice president. I'd like a representative of the Croatian People's Club to brief us on the establishment of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u6	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegations-delegates, ladies and gentlemen, with respect, on behalf of the Croatian Club of the High House, I would first of all like to welcome today's constitutional session of the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the assurance that the Croatian Club will do everything, that this House is working in 4 constructive ways, for the benefit of all three people, who are represented here for the benefit of all BiH citizens and for the benefit of all, clearly, the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Club of Representatives of the Hrvat of this House has been established. For the chairman of the Club, I was proposed by Ivo Divković, and for my deputy, to sound nice, the same name Ivo Živković. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u7	I thank Mr. Divković and ask the representative of the Serbian People's Club to brief us on the establishment of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u8	Mr. President, gentlemen of the delegates, the Club of Delegates has been established in front of the Serb people. For Club President, in front of the Serbian people, Mr Momčilo Novaković was elected president of the club and Mr Dragutin Rodić for his deputy. I congratulate all today's elected delegates and wish us success in our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u9	I thank my esteemed colleague. I find that we have established three clubs provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I thank you for your cooperation, and we can continue our work on the agenda. Now we're going to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The election of the presidents and vice-presidents of the House of Peoples is scheduled for the procedure by Article 7 of our Rules of Procedure, it is intended to be elected, I will improvise it a little, to elect a College of Parliament of three representatives from three peoples in this House. It's all in Rule 7. You have a Rules of Procedure. You probably read that. Let me just give you one piece, which directly tangs our current work to read to you, which is an item that first proposes a candidate for president. In this case, he should be an envoy from the Croatian people's ranks, then the first Bosnian people's deputy chairman and other Serbian people's vice president are proposed. First, second and third, etc. It's a business order, or order of logic so far, I wasn't in this house, so I'm not sure, but I think that thing is clean and clear and that we can, of course the secretary warns me about what needs to be reminded of, I read it. This order is in line with the 7th point 1 clan so that both homes would not be from the same constituent people at the same time. I'm asking if there's anything unclear here? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u10	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I am Momčilo Novaković head of the Serbian People's Parliament Club. As far as I was informed before this session, the chairman was supposed to be of the order of the Serb people. Now, so 5 chosen today only after that to go rotation. I'm asking you to explain it a little bit, because we don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u11	Thank you very much. Here's the secretary to explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u12	I'd like to tell you that he's been in the last session since '98. By 2000, the House of Nations was first chaired by the order of the Croatian people and then by the order of the Bosniak people, and by the order of the Serb people. The mandate ended in this past session of the Serb people, while the House of Representatives was slightly different. The first was, from the order of the Bosniak people, from the order of the Serb people, from the order of the Croatian people, so there could be no overlap from the same peoples in both homes. The mandate according to the OSCE interpretation, which we requested ended with Mr Drago Ljubičić of the order of the Croatian people, pardon, from the order of the Serbian people. Since we had anticipated his mandate in the tenth month, when elections were due, but the elections had been moved in a month, a little more than a month, then the presidents of the House of Nations changed for 20 days, so that his term ended 27.11. Mr. Drago Ljubičić, as representatives of the Serbian people, and now it comes to the turn of the presidency to be of the order of the Croatian people, and then from the Bosniak people to the Serbian people. It's different in the House of Representatives, so there wouldn't be a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u13	I thank the secretary for the interpretation. Dear colleagues, this election mandate is divided into three times the same. I don't think it's a particularly important order, but if you decide it's important, I'm very prepared to discuss it, if we should and vote, here's if you accept this interpretation to keep doing this. Here you go, colleague Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u14	Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I think it makes sense for this proposal by Mr. Novaković, for perhaps more reasons that may not matter at this time. Since we have the Presidency of the BiH Council of Ministers in the ranks of the Croatian people, that we have the chairmanial representative council of the Bosniak people, that it makes sense that the first chairman of this meeting should be of the order of the Serb people, more of the balance that we are all talking about and if it is not a condition above the conditions, but I think it makes sense that this order exists, given that in BiH before '90. I think we could make a contribution this time, especially for reasons to avoid perhaps some of the unnecessary speculations that may arise. That's what I'm suggesting, therefore, given that part of it comes from the order of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Divković answered. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Hrvat klub expects us to really respect the business order in some way, when it comes to the chairman, which I fully respect Mr. Špirić's discussion, only Mr. Špirić failed to say that he is the chairman of the Serbian people's presidency. So that's a fact that should also be respected. We have the chairmanship of the Serbian people's presidency, we have the chairman's House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament in the order of the Bosniak people, and it is quite logical that the chairman of the House of the Peoples of BiH be of the order of the Croatian people, as this is in line with what is Poslvonik, I would say, defined. I hope we agree on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u17	I thank Mr. Divković. Anybody else want to talk. Five minutes break, ladies and gentlemen, we have to do this, that's it. Every start is hard. ...that this break was necessary and was well used. [[PAUZA]] We're continuing the debate. Who's calling?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u18	Mr. President, fellow delegates, we believe that the constitution of the House of Nations is unnecessaryly delayed and we do not want to make today's session difficult. That is why we accept, although the Rules of Procedure are not clear to the end, that the chairman be of the order of the Croatian people, and that the term of office is divided evenly into all three peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u19	I thank Mr. Lić. Anyone else want to talk about this? Without any need to reconsider, nor to explain what is known, but I don't think it's a bad thing to say, that the rotation at the head of the House of Representatives will happen before here and then we'd have a situation where we have a chairman from the same people in both homes, it's also a logic in favour of your well-being to move on. After we've solved this, I thank you again. I call on the representative of the Croatian People's Club, because this is the order, to make a proposal for the president of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u20	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to thank the clubs of both the Serbian and Bosniak people, on one hand, for a sober and constructive analysis of this, related to the Rules of Procedure and the maintenance of a practical delegation from the Croatian people to be a candidate for the chairman. For the chairman of the House of Peoples of the House of Representatives of the Hrvat klub of Home, we propose Mr. Ilija Šimić, Master of Sociology and Philosophy, President of the 7 HSS, who is a member of the Alliance for Change. That's our proposal from the Croatian Envoys Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u21	I thank Mr. Divković. Business is scheduled to be voted immediately, if not the secretary will correct me. Each of us has the right to make a proposal and I invite you, if anyone else wants to make a new proposal to vote. Since he's gone, the secretary is here to correct us. I think we're going well. I invite you to vote. Here you go. He has the word Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't accidentally suggest that all three clubs present proposals for established candidates for members of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because my discussion can, in fact, be tied up in a package for all three proposals. Since the vote will be held individually and possibly due to each proposal presented for a member of the College, I would like to say to this occasion that the SDA of BiH, at the Bosniak Club, had a candidate as a member of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We appreciate that it is perfectly normal and logical, respecting the principle of election results, which otherwise makes the legislative authorities realize that that political party, which has the largest number of delegates, or MPs, is the political party that will propose from which members of the College will be elected. The BiH Democratic Action Party at the Bosniak Delegates Club has two delegates, which are Dr Genjac and I, the other political parties have one delegate each. At the Bosniak Club, I presented a proposal from the College of the Party of Democratic Action, and I am sorry to take Mr. Jusufović's job, which is why I asked for all that to be said together, which I have to say now, the proposal has not passed. We have once again encountered the exclusiveities of the political group, headed by the SDP, therefore, the Alliance, and therefore we will be restrained against all proposals that are highlighted here. I'm saying, I needed to get up for this candidacy, because I think it would be too late to pass the vote already if I hadn't responded and said what I had to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u23	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Secretary of the House to let us know on business how things stand about this vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u24	I would like to point out that Article 2.3 says, until the chairman is elected, the first session will be chaired by the oldest elected envoy as interim chairman. Since Article 7.1. also states that one Bošnjak, one Hrvat, one Srbin who will perform the duties of the chairman, the first vice-president and the second vice-president of the House will be elected. 8 Since Article 2.2 provides for the first election of the President of the House, I believe that the vote of the President of the House should be held first and then on the first deputy and second vice-president.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u25	Here, that's what you think. I am, preparing myself for this session, because knowing what criteria it is run by, so the session is prepared, but that doesn't mean anything, it is my duty to adapt to what most people decide, but of course, exclusively within the Rules of Procedure. I think this is where the secretary read the Rules of Procedure. It seems clear to me what this is all about, but I'm still having an open discussion. Does anyone else want to talk about this? Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u26	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues of the delegates, I think it would be good for the constitutive union itself and it is in the interest of BiH and its citizens to establish the College in full. It's not good at the start, in economic terms, before I talk about BiH's economic future to choose from a bad college. It will open up a part of the political debates that, I'm miserable, will not bring BiH well and therefore, if there is a possibility, if there is a possibility of agreement in the Bosniak People's Club, it is better to take a little break but to resolve it today. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u27	Thank you very much. I understood the appeal. We all understood him, but I have no comment, except I am still inviting you to the debate possibly, if not, Mr. Jusović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u28	Mr. Chairman, I consider this Mr. Džaferović's intervention in a certain part justified to announce for future proposals, so he said in a certain way what the Party of Democratic Action's relationship would be. Next, Mr. Špirić, I didn't quite understand or understand what you were suggesting. There ain't gonna be no shit in here. This is where the College should be elected, and it is only a matter of whether there are any other delegates to propose from the order of the Croatian people and I propose that the procedure be followed and to go to the vote. Since I haven't noticed there's another candidate, I suggest you join the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u29	Thank you. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u30	9 [[speaks from the place and you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u31	All right, since, of course, I have to let everyone say by the end, and we all say what we have to say, so here I am, if there are no more suggestions for the president of the Croatian people, I invite you to vote for the proposed name and last name, it is not too pleasant, but it is my name and last name and I have to say it to Ilija Šimić because of the stenogram being made. So who is it that Ilija Šimić is elected first chairman of the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliament? Thank you very much. I, Mr. Secretary, have seen it voted 13 for. Is anyone against and is anyone abstention – 13 for without opposition – 1 abstention. I thank you very much, and we must conclude one more thing, a moment only to Mr. Divković. In all these cases of elections, when it's not all clear and clear, it's also an entity vote. There's an entity majority here, and it's an absolute majority, and I think you agree with me that I don't need to call for an entity vote. Can we accept that with 13 votes for both votes, the entity vote is contained in these 13 votes. Thank you. I hereby conclude that we have taken the first step and chosen the first chairman. Mr. Divković, tell him.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u32	Mr. President, I just want to thank all my colleagues on behalf of the Croatian Club for supporting our proposal as chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u33	Of course, I thank you for doing a nice courtesy on my behalf. I don't need to talk about it, it's our joint job to do good in this house, and that's all we're gonna do and we're gonna force each other to do it, and we're certainly all individually ready for good work. I now call on the representative of the Bosniak People's Club, the first representative of the Bosniak People's Club, and then we will in turn propose a candidate from the Bosniak people's order.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u34	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of delegates, the Bosniak delegates' club proposes Mr. Sejfudin Tokić as the first deputy chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so mostly votes. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u35	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to propose a candidate for the first deputy in the Bosniak people's order? If he doesn't want to, and I can see that no one's answering, we can approach the vote. Who, therefore, is for Mr. Sejfudin Tokić to be elected the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples. - 13's in. Is anyone against it? Restraint. 13 for – without – 1 abstention. I find that Mr. Sejfudin Tokić has been elected the first deputy. I am, of course, using this position and congratulating him, and here, too, is the same entity vote institute, so, contained in this number 13 and I'm saying, if you approve of me, there's no need to go to that kind of vote. You agree that, it's very easy math. There are good mathematicians here who could teach us that. Thank you very much. I'd like a representative of the Serbian people's club to make a proposal to elect another president.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u36	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, I first take the opportunity to congratulate on the election of the chairman and first vice-president and on behalf of the Serbian People's Club for the second deputy chairman, Mr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u37	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to make a proposal for another chairman of the Serb people's order? If he doesn't want to, I don't see anyone answering. Who is it to choose Mr. Nikola Špirić? Who's in? Is anyone against it? I don't mind. The abstentions? - 1 abstention. I thank you all. We have a score, so 13 for - no problem and 1 abstention. The same finding and I repeat it only because of the stenogram, so there's no need to make an entity vote. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u38	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u39	I counted you in, but the correction has already been respected. 11 I call upon Mr. Tokić and Špirić to help a little. Please come here, colleagues. Don't go, we need you here. He'll sit where he needs to sit in the next sessions, but he's running a session. Thank you very much, dear colleagues, for doing an important part of the job. I thank you again on behalf of the three of us for the election, and I certainly will not be wrong if I prejudge the opinion of my colleagues that we are prepared, very collegiately and intimately working together on this important job and on behalf of this country. Thank you again. We're going to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. The election of members of the House of Peoples committees You know and I think you have in the material, that you are scheduled to select three committees in this house. The first is, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the second is the Commission for Foreign Trade and Policy and is the third commission for financial and administrative affairs. After the Clubs have studied this, I'm asking the clubs in alphabetical order, say, come out and do a proposal, will we do all three at once or individually? Individually. So first for the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I ask the representative of the Bosniak People's Club to present a proposal for the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u40	Before I say the proposal, and I, too, want to take the opportunity to now, in full composition, congratulate the College, the elected College. I wish you a lot of success in your work. Well, for starters, it went well. The proposal of the Bosniak delegates' Club for the Constitutional and Legal Commission is: Mr. Džaferović Šefik and Mr. Tokić Sejfudin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u41	From the order of the Croatian people, said in alphabetical order, it's the easiest logic, we can agree on any logic you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u42	Gentlemen Chairman, from the order of the Croatian people, before I announce the names of the candidate for the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I just want to clarify one detail. Reading the text of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, this subtitle, says that in the House of Representatives there are two different committees, these are the Constitutional and Legal Commission, where it is the chairman of the Srbin and Human Rights, Immigration and Asylum Commission, where it is the chairman of the Bošnjak. In view of this, we from the House of the Croatians of this House of People propose to enter this commission Niko Sušac as a candidate and Ivo Živković, where we propose that the chairman of these committees be Hrvat and we propose to Nik Šušac. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u43	Thank you. Here are your colleagues from the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u44	Before I suggest, I'm only interested in one detail, given that the Rules of Procedure are allowed from the order of experts to choose a certain number in the commission, whether we're going to do it now or later. Later, well, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I propose for the Constitutional Legal Commission, for the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, Nikola Špirić and Mr Dragutin Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u45	Thank you. We now have six members proposed for the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'll ask the Secretary to read the names again, and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u46	For the Constitutional and Legal Commission, from the Bosniak people's ranks are proposed: Šefik Džaferović and Tokić Sejfudin. From the order of the Croatian people: Niko Sušac and Ivo Živković. From the order of the Serbian people: Nikola Špirić and Dragutin Rodić. With regard to what Mr. Divković was saying, the Commission will elect the president and vice president at its first session, we heard one appeal, we will do so on the Commission. If this is appreciated, and if this committee is no longer present, this commission will work especially at its meetings, I urge you to vote in favour of the composition, the read composition of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Who's in? Here all 14 present voted in favour. So I won't even invite you to those other two degrees. I thank you and I realize that with 14 votes, therefore, the Commission has been unanimously elected. I'm asking club representatives, we're going to have to repeat it twice, that's the procedure, they've got two more commissions, so we're going to have to do the same order. I ask a representative of the Bosniak People's Club to make a proposal for the next commission. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u47	The proposed Club of Bosniak Delegates for the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy are gentlemen: Spahić Ibrahim and Genjac Halid.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u48	Thank you very much. Representative of the Croatian People's Club. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u49	The proposal of the Croatian People's Club for the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy is: Mr Jerko Ivanković and Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u50	Thank you very much. I'd like a representative of the Serbian People's Club for the same commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u51	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the House of Peoples, I would also like to express, on my own behalf, the satisfaction that we have managed to establish the House of People this quickly today, and I hope that we will work in this way in the future. As far as the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy in the order of the Serbian people is concerned, we are handing over Dragutin Ilić and Turjačanin Goran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u52	Thank you very much. Now we have six suggestions, we'll do the same thing again, so the secretary can read six names, so we can have them in a total list and then we can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u53	For the members of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, the following candidates are proposed: gentlemen of the Bosniak people Ibrahim Spahić and Halid Genjac. From the order of the Croatian people: Jerko Ivanković and Ivo Divković. From the order of the Serbian people: Ilić Dragutin and Turjačanin Goran.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u54	I call on you to vote for the composition of the Commission. Who's in? Thank you very much. It's 14 again, and we speeded it up again, and I thank you for that. We also have the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. I have found that we have the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy elected, and now I call you to another procedure like this and there will be no more, to choose a third commission, it is the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs. I'm asking Mr. Munib to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u55	The Bosniak delegates' club for the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs suggests: Jusufović Muniba and Džaferović Šefik. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u56	Thank you. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u57	The Hrvat club at the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs suggests to Mr Ilija Šimić and Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u58	Thank you very much. We're listening to the Serbian delegates' club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u59	Imported fellow delegates, esteemed Presidency, in front of the Club of delegates of the Serbian people at the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs, we propose Mr. Novaković Momčilo and Mr. Ilić Dragutin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u60	Thank you very much. One more list of six people. Mr. Secretary will read and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u61	For the members of the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs, the following gentlemen, from the Bosniak people's order: Jusufović Munib and Džaferović Šefik. From the order of the Croatian people: Ilija Šimić and Jerko Ivanković. From the order of the Serbian people: Novaković Momčilo and Dragutin Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u62	Thank you very much. We can approach the vote. Who's in? Thank you very much, - 14 is for, no against, no abstentions, these are the three committees of the House of Peoples prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Let me suggest to you the conclusion that the College convenes the first committee sessions, which will be selected by the chair and vice presidents. Do you agree with that? Thank you very much. We're actually done with the agenda, but allow me, we've got a few more minutes to do. Mr. Jerko Ivanković asked for a word and he is, of course, our colleague from the House of Nations, but I will immediately say one part of his address, he is the youngest in our home, since I, unfortunately, was my oldest in charge of the session, he wants to say something at the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u63	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the deputy, distinguished fellow envoys - delegates, as probably the youngest member of this House, a man without great political experience, I would like to ask you to understand my potential initial failures in 15 papers the exclusive consequences of the mentioned experience, and not at all my conscious intentions. I will respect and appreciate and be grateful for any indication of such failures. I would now like to briefly express my vision of our work together in this esteemed home. In fact, we are expected to effectively resuscitate all the huge damage that has been done to our country over the last ten years. During this period, among other things, reduced wages and pensions are for our people several times, instead of being increased as is the normal moment in the world, so we need to make faster work to secure wages and pensions to reach the height of war as quickly as possible, and to continue the trend of growth. The material damage will be much easier to correct than political, because the consequences of politics are that they are really difficult to correct and the work of their predominance, many will call it synicotic, but it does not mean that it is unsustainable, but for this we will need the support of all the political actors of our country and the institutions of the international community in BiH, but also of its people whose policies during that period have divided and destroyed people's dignity. Nevertheless, these same people remain focused on one another. They have different religious and other beliefs, but they are neighbors essentially friends. Politics have mostly been used in the last periods of diversity by three peoples for their lack of understanding, but one of BiH's most unique treasures is seen in the fact that despite the three constituent and other nations, a rare case in the world, and this wealth enables us to provide these peoples with a better life and standard than other homes in our region can provide. I will personally promote the values of our wealth contained in our differences, and I expect the same from other members of this house, because I believe that this way we will ensure what good people of this country expect, and that is a better life and standard worthy of this time. Therefore, I sincerely wish myself and your esteemed colleagues the successful removal of all the obstacles that will cost us our goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u64	Thank you, colleagues, Jerki. Ibro Spahić wants to say something for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow delegates, distinguished members of the Kolegijum, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction with the establishment of the House of Peoples and to say at the outset that there are three fundamental obligations of this House of People to the citizens of BiH and its peoples and minorities. The first is that, before this home as before the House of Representatives in BiH, a document taken by the Council of Ministers as an obligation together with both homes is a clear economic and social programme that both homes have not yet arrived. We have had impediment and it is mandatory for the Council of Ministers in this regard to react pronoun to both homes of the people, that was the decision of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the previous session. 16 The second document, which is important and which has been accepted in both homes and in the programme from earlier periods, is the Declaration of Reconciliation and Trust in BiH. This text of the Declaration was given to all MPs and all delegates in both homes and since it is an integral part of the Work Programme of both homes and it would be good for them to start meeting this House with the citizens of BiH, taking into account everything that is happening today and how they would like to change things in the future, and the Third Document, which was adopted in both homes in the Work Programme, is the Law on the Protection of Minorities in BiH. The House, which is composed of representatives of Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, has first and foremost the obligation to pass a law on the protection of minorities in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, has the obligation to demonstrate that it wants a civil, democratic, open country, ready for integration in Europe and therefore I would like to stress at the end of this session these three key tasks of BiH, in which I would say that all people and all citizens, regardless of culture, nation, religion and social position, can build their future. So, I invite you to prepare at the next session of the College a proposal for a work programme for this home, agree it with the House of Representatives and make sure that you agree with the Council of Ministers, for which it is indeed high time to appear with the programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u66	I would like to thank Mr Spahić for his helpful proposal and finally go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u67	I would like, above all, to express the club's satisfaction in front of the Serbian people with today's session of the House of Peoples, that is, with its completion and during, to congratulate all the chosen ones and I will pay more attention to this one of the aspects of the work, which is the protection of the interests of the people, respecting these aspects that have already been said and I hope that all of us here will, as much as we want to protect our people's interests as we do to other peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u68	Thank you very much. These are all important words and now Mr Tokić and Mr Špirić have come forward and we will end this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u69	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed members of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to thank you for your expressed confidence in the election in the College of this High House and, at the same time, to point out that the only protection of the national interests of all three Bosnian-Herzegoval constituent nations can guarantee full protection and our own people to whom we belong, and to point out that the experience of the immediate past and far-reaching experience has shown that it is never possible to articulate the successful national policy of a single nation alone, not taking into account the interests of other peoples in BiH. I appreciate that at this point in BiH, in particular from the aspect of the difficult economic situation, BiH's kind of isolation from European integration, we are primarily 17 tasks in three directions, which is transition, reform of the economic system, in a way that is, indeed, true, prular state, the state in which, among other things, foreign capital will have the interest to be placed here, consistent implementation of the peace agreement, not stopping any initiative to build, within this House and within the Parliamentary Assembly, the constitutional and legal system of BiH, but in this building, not outside this building, and, of course, in this consistent implementation of the peace agreement, primarily the return of refugees and exiles, and what my predecessors have already pointed out, and this is that, in the context of our efforts in our term, as home of the Parliamentary assembly, we are not a block of the adoption of the law, but that we are even being initiators of the adoption of new laws into a new European partnership in BiH. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u70	I thank my colleague Tokić. Here you go, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed delegates, of course I want to thank you for your trust, and I won't say much and what I'm convinced of is that the Dayton BiH works. I hope that this House of Peoples meeting will ensure that BiH's entry into economic reforms will achieve a much higher income per-capital, that its citizens will also be satisfied and that the forces that advocate the revision of the Dayton Agreement, which have, unfortunately, blocked economic reforms, will not stand a chance in this House either. In that sense, I welcome you and I am ready to work in accordance with the Dayton Agreement and the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-20-0.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Avoiding big words, we'll finish this session because we have big jobs to do, of course, this tall home has both high and heavy tasks for this country, but here's what our colleagues said, it's enough to sign, I'm sure we will and keep working. Thank you very much, this session is over. The seat is closed at 14.40.
