ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-24-0.u1601	Gentlemen, honored delegates, guests, Excellency, I am opening the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, pursuant to Article 42. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, in accordance with its powers, called and agreed that the only item of today's 13th session's agenda would be: Giving consent to the ratification of the "Third Project" development loan agreement in the electricity sector between BiH and the International Development Association – the BiH Presidency as a proposing. Before joining this item of the agenda, I would inform you that the College proposed that, since the text of the Law on Industrial Property in the House of Representatives was adopted in a different text than in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Commission for Consensus with the House of Representatives for the Text of this Law should be chaired by the clubs of delegates – the envoys of delegations of individual peoples, i.e. Mr Momčilo Novaković, Mr Ivo Divković and Mr Munib Jusufović. Can we possibly accept this proposal? Who's up for this proposal? I find it unanimous that the Commission's proposal for reconciliation is unanimously accepted. Is there any proposal to amend and supplement today's agenda? I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. For perfectly understandable reasons, we haven't had a point, since we've been working on the third day of the envoy's questions. I'm finishing my dispersion. Who's for the proposed agenda? Unanimity. So all 14 envoys. The session is attended by 5 envoys from the Bosniak people, 4 representatives from the Croatian people and 5 envoys, i.e. delegates from the order of the Serb people. I'm opening the agenda. 2 Ad.1. Giving consent to the ratification of the development loan agreement "Third project between BiH and the International Development Association BiH Presidency Proposer Does there need further explanations? According to the envoys' reactions, I see no need for esteemed delegates. Thank you. I'm opening a squabble over this part of the agenda? Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you. Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-24-0.u1602	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Treasury and representatives of the Council of Ministers, I would just like to say one sentence about the ratification of this document, that's how it is. When the BiH Presidency, in time, delivers a document that goes to the Council of Ministers, which is being prepared for the House of Peoples or the House of Representatives of BiH, it is necessary to ensure that the time is respected and that it does not take several months for such a document to come to ratification in the House of Peoples and, in future, I would like to introduce a procedure for the movement of paper between the Council – the Presidency and Parliament, because this really was not necessary to hold an extraordinary session since a long time ago document was offered by the BiH Presidency. Otherwise, I support this, given the importance and importance of this document.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-12-24-0.u1603	I'm thanking you. I think this is a very useful suggestion, with this text coming to the parliamentary procedure on 21.12. and in the parliamentary procedure, the College is running a policy of procedure in which no paper is really late and we do not have any documents that are business late in relation to the proposal made by the Council of Ministers or by the Presidency. Certainly, this suggestion is very important so that we don't get into a situation like this, I'll conclude the debate. If no one is answering for the word anymore, conditions have been obtained to access ratification, i.e. to give consent to ratifying an agreement on a development loan between BiH and an international development association related to the Third Project in the set of electricity. Who's in? All 14 envoys – the delegates agreed to ratify this important agreement. This brings us to the end of our session. As the chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, together with my colleagues, I would like to congratulate all katolik on the coming holidays – Christmas holidays – holidays and to all the delegates – to the delegates of the House of Peoples to congratulate the New Year, to point out that, regardless of the polemic and quite harsh tones, this was the most successful according to the number of laws adopted, the work of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly in the history of its existence, we have adopted 39 legislative projects – 41 laws. So over 40 laws and I think it's really a success for all of us. I believe that this home will be affirmed in the coming period, as a home in which it is responsible for deciding what is BiH's perspective. Once again congratulations on work and all the happiness and success of next year. Thank you. The session is closed at 14:20 p.m.
