ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u73	Dear envoys, delegates, distinguished Excellencys, dear guests, thank you for coming to 2. I am sitting at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I am opening 2. Meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me inform you that the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the 2nd session of this house is attended by 15 envoys – delegates, therefore, five from all clubs, from the Club of Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin. Since this is the case, the conditions for us to hold this session, to move on to the agenda and end an extremely important session today, but before that, I would also ask that you allow me to do a solemn act with pleasure, since the envoy Dr Halid Genjac was not at the 1st constitutive session, I will invite him to take the oath – the oath.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u74	I pledge to be conscious of my duties.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u75	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u76	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u77	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u78	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u79	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u80	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u81	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u82	I congratulate you. This is your home. We're going to the agenda of today's session. Let me suggest the agenda, because this session is, perfectly the Rules of Procedure on the work of this house, called by a rush, by an urgent procedure, and the materials are delegates – the envoys get when entering the building or at a club meeting. Therefore, for today's agenda, I propose as the first point of adoption of the minutes from the constitutional session of the House of Peoples. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 1st constitutional session of the House of Peoples; 2. Confirmation and appointment of members of the BiH presidency; 3. Proposal for a budget – Budget of BiH and international obligations of BiH for 2001; 4. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget – Budget of BiH and international obligations of BiH for 2001; and 5. Envoying issues and initiatives, if there are six. Do you agree with the agenda? Or the previous question, does anyone want to discuss the agenda, propose new points, or question existing ones? If not, would you like to make a statement on the proposed agenda? They're all in. I find that the agenda has been adopted and we can move on to the first point. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 1st constitutive session You have also received the same procedure as this session and called and as it is held, so please choose to contact if anyone wants to discuss the minutes. No Niko's answering. So, we can make a statement about the adoption of the agenda, the penitentiary, the pardon, here's a colleague so on the right, as the first deputy and he'll do the corrections, of course, the fellow on the left, is also obliged and invited. I thank you very much, with an apology, of course, if only this were a mistake, there will be more of them, but we must not make a mistake at the next item of the agenda, it is of course an important point for the whole country, for this home of course special, and the point is to confirm the appointment of members of the BiH presidency. 3 You know and the entire public knows that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, appointed two members of the BiH Presidency in its 6th session, from the order of the Bosniak people Mr Beriz Belkić and from the order of the Croatian people Mr Juz Križanović. In accordance with Article 6. The law on filling the vacant seats of the BiH presidency, following proceedings at the House of Representatives, is required by the Constitution and by the Law, which I have called upon, to confirm or act differently adopted by the House of Peoples. Before that, before we approach the plea, I offer and invite Mr Belkić and Križanović to take this order as I have spoken to this house. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, of course I do, because it is the least we are obliged to do to this House, so that, before we make a statement, we should sort of turn around and try as soon as possible to explain, or to get to know you what we intend to do. First of all, we intend to leave immediately with a p... this institution that's been for a long time, inadmissible, given the situation we're in, it doesn't work. So, first and dreamers are our task to revive the work of the Bureau's institution. That's what we're gonna do, so to speak, right now. It is next that the institution, i.e. the functions of the Presidency, are imported and synchronised with all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to get a structure that will be able to carry out constitutional powers and all of those tasks that belong to a normal state, and all of this in order to create conditions in the state or environment, as usual, to say today in which economic initiative can be developed and to implement reforms in the areas of the economy, the judiciary, to establish the directions and methods of action against corruption, to create future and realistic conditions to realise that plan which we have talked a great deal about the return of displaced persons and refugees, to remove obstacles to one correct and in accordance with the Constitution of implementation of the decision, i.e. in accordance with one content of the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court of the People's Constitution. Of course, we will be awake to monitor and adapt to the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to act together, to inform each other and to carry part of the responsibility towards this high house for our work, of course as representatives of citizens whose name we are, however, in some way chosen here, regardless of what this whole procedure is, in some way, unusual, or what is not to say about the full vacancy of members of the Presidency, but it does not amnest us, nor does it deprive us of the importance that we do the job in the best possible way. When it comes to the programme from which we are starting on this job, I believe that most of you are familiar, which I don't say, to remind you about the programme, to say briefly to the alliances or groups of parties between which I belong to the Party for BiH, and we will seek from that part what is under the Constitution of BiH to authorise the Presidency and to implement to make our contribution to the overall implementation of the programme, which we think will bring about changes towards the better movement. And, uh, a few more sentences to say. The whole situation in our country, as I understand it, began from this morning's blocking of the city of Sarajevo by workers of 4 Milkos to events in parts of the Federation, caused by decisions and moves of a small number of people, I dare say who managed to manipulate part of the defence structures, part of the state administration and part of the public for which I do not say and lead to obstruction of the functioning of bodies in the Federation and in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We intend to, I believe, that Mr. Križanović also agrees, based on the real information we have asked for, of course, if we are elected, we will discuss them that as the Presidency as the largest state body, we are considering the situation and we do what we are obliged to do to bring the situation in BiH back to normal and to address life problems as soon as possible. So once again, I declare that honestly and consciously with all my abilities I will do the job, if you confirm it to me here today, or trust me to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u84	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u85	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, MPs, I would like to say immediately that I am pleased to have the opportunity to address this high house and to take some of my views on the current situation and what I think awaits us if we are confirmed by this House as the Presidency to do. First of all, I want to point out that I am aware of the overall economic, social and political crisis in BiH at the moment. However, I accepted the candidacy for this high post, with the belief that in BiH, most BiH citizens have matured awareness of the need for change, and that awareness of BiH citizens seems to have been translated into the political will of the Alliance for Change. In this I see finally after a long time the possibility that in this BiH country we will create a normal state in which citizens, all BiH citizens, will be able to feel as a country as their preferred country. It is clear that these changes require large constitutional and economic reforms which, above all, will guarantee, which will create preconditions, in fact, for the creation of such a state that will be able to guarantee human rights and freedoms for every individual and every one of its people, respecting all the specialities of these peoples, including all these historical, cultural and religious personalities of its people, thus and Croatian peoples to whom I belong. I think we are expected to have a major improvement in this BiH country, which will finally make it a good neighbour and a desirable partner for co-operation in the world. We are expected by this one courtesy of BiH, which will allow us to finally meet with Euro-Atlantic integrations, where natural, historical, geographical, cultural BiH belongs. Of course, for this great goal and a big project, we need support from BiH citizens and understanding BiH citizens. Let me, in this place, because of the specificity of the political situation, express my deep conviction and desire for the Croatian people to accept their moral and patriotic commitment to building such a country, such as this country, and to invite their representatives to whom he has given confidence to return to legal distitulations of the system, because 5 of them probably have gained their trust to represent them, to represent their interests in adolescence and not in some illegal bodies. Of course, I point out again that it's a difficult project, but what encourages me is knowing that we finally know what we want and where we're going. Not to mention, respected MPs and MPs, I would like to say from an opportunity what Mr Belkić has promised here, which is that I will do everything in full understanding and cooperation with Mr Belkić and Radic, to make the BiH presidency fully cooperate with the international community with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers and all other relevant bodies and organisations in BiH, all in order to initiate and harmonise all these activities, all those necessary activities that will contribute to the recent implementation of this project. I thank you again for listening to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanović. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the College and guests, particularly candidates for the BiH presidency members Mr Belkić and Mr Križanović, today have given us a public statement, concerning, following our consideration of the taking over of the most significant state obligations in BiH, I would say in the most complicated period for the fate of BiH and for the development of democracy in BiH. On their own behalf, I would like to say that the BiH Parliament and the People's House and the BiH People's House of Representatives have in truth today and the previous House of Representatives, also, the responsibility for the exercise of their Constitution of mandates and that from this moment on BiH should, complete the BiH Presidency, take the key role of each institution doing its job in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the obligations now publicly assumed by candidates, Mr Belkić and Mr Križanović, in the constitutional procedure and legal as foreseen by the two members of the Presidency, from my point of view, implies first of all three key changes in relations between political institutions and BiH. First, that the BiH presidency, in accordance with its powers, after filling its composition, immediately assume responsibility, to address the nation, so BiH, with a common policy, on the internal and external agenda and attitudes, given that the country's dramatic situation and that democracy in BiH has been threatened, above all through the lack of action of the system's institutions. I think it was important for this to be at an extraordinary session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, where all three members of the presidency would come out with a very clear policy, which means that BiH and its institutions, first and foremost, face their own responsibility for meeting the obligations resulting from the November 2000 elections results. This would be the first chance to overcome the situation we are in today's moment, in which one part of the political parties, on the one hand, leaves or has left already or frozen 6 of their activities in Parliament, on the other hand, announces that they will leave the legislative organisation or parliaments in BiH, if there is not adequate implementation and thirdly, the forces that have politically taken responsibility for the country's leadership, act more through a statement outside the institutions, but through the institutions themselves. It is time for the practice to be interrupted both first and second and third, and for the BiH presidency to announce to its parliament the policy it will have in the coming period. I think that this is a key moment, when it should also tell the domestic and international public that it is past the time of extra-institutional and that it is sources of institutional democratic action with full capacity and full responsibility and another thing I want to say is related to our political blindness, which concerns economic and social policy in BiH, and I find it absolutely impossible to delay the responsibility of the BiH predsjendištvo and Council of Ministers to come out with a programme of work concerning the BiH Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, also, in line with the constitution and competences. The Alliance's programme is sufficiently promoted, and the responsibility of institutions is insufficiently affirmed through institutions, and I therefore think that the Presidency, which is harmonising its work programme with the Council of Ministers and with parlament should have in mind both this second moment and finally, because this is the home of the people, I want a third moment to say which I care terribly about. I am very pleased to hear today a very precise statement by Mr Belkić and Mr Krsanovic, which refers to a very clear, precise, dignified representation of the people they represent both Bosniak and Croatian peoples. Of course, it is understood that we have a member of the presidency representing the Serbian people in BiH at the moment, but I want to repeat my position, which is why I have even accepted to be in the House of Peoples of Candidates, which was offered to me within the Alliance. The stance refers to the position of BiH citizens. I, I would like two members of the predsjendištvo and a member of the Presidency who is in office, and I hope that today we will have a full presidency, make sure that BiH and the country of citizens live in BiH, too, national minorities, and that in BiH we need, if we want a different policy to lead, that we simply have respect for each other as citizens towards citizens. I would like this inauguration of two members of the presidency and their confirmation to mean responsibility for a completely different and different picture of BiH that they will build in the coming period. Thank you very much, and I wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u88	I thank Mr Spahić. Anyone else want to take part in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Dragutin Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u89	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests. This country of Bosnia is unusual for many things, so here is the unusual and the way we complete a very important institution. I am pleased to see in the biographies that we have a real businessman, a technocrat, that we have a successful economist and prime minister of an organisational or one state unit and we have an experienced politician. I hope these three men are going to spend all their energy, not on what we did in BiH, so we broke this power to 7 or 8 levels, so the citizen here is completely lost, and we are all here, for God's sake, because of the interest of 7 of these citizens. We have received the Alijansa for Change, which I sincerely want to succeed in these changes, but the changes will only be if the citizens of BiH, no matter what people they belong to, and this home here is here to protect their rights, that they are in no way deprived, and I hope that the citizens will feel equal only if they have anything to do and what to live on. I wanted to tell the fellow candidates for members of the Presidency, for which I hope you will get our support today, that you will do everything to make it possible for the Council of Ministers to give the BiH Parliament, that parliaments and governments of entities, cantons, municipalities work exclusively to make citizens live better, and that they will only live better if there is work and if you are all other important issues, from constitutionalities, equality and everything else, to ensure that our economies and what we have to take advantage of that people can work and live. In that, citizens, I hope, in the next elections, will appreciate who made the contribution, and I believe it is hard to believe that this assembly of both Parliament and the House of Representatives and our home will adopt a final permanent electoral law and that we too will be placed in normal countries in which citizens, by their laws and authority they choose to rule in this country and that our friends from abroad, will only have the role of advisers and not those who judge most often. I want a new one, I really want the Radišić to show that they are more successful than their predecessors, along with our distinguished member of the presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u90	I thank Mr. Ilić and the debate is still open. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u91	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my special pleasure today to contribute to the constitution at this extraordinary session, I would say, the top BiH authorities as a whole, by completing the BiH Presidency. This is the moment, as my esteemed counterpart Spahić said, this is the moment when both the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly, both its homes, the Council of Ministers and all political life entities in BiH are to be reminded that we are in one very serious political moment when BiH is concerned. In particular, given the situation, relating to the abandonment of the Parliamentary Assembly from certain political parties, and to our necessary need for change, both in terms of the economic political system, so as to take account of the deadlines set for us, which have been given to us, and in connection with the objective of putting us into European integration processes. I hope that today, when we finish the process of establishing all these bodies, we are in some way starting the most serious in this process and that both this home and the Presidency and all the authorities will make a full contribution to finishing jobs, around entering, above all, into the Euerpic Integration Roces, which would in some way make BiH a desirable country for both foreign investors and countries with a reputation and respect in the world. I have no doubt that this goal will be contributed by both the new Presidency and the new two members of the Presidency that we will confirm today. Thank you very much. Ilija Šimić thank Mr. Divković. He answered, as far as I can tell, Mr. Novaković. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably not the usual way to address candidates for members of the country's presidency this way, but given the way they are elected, then I will take the right to address myself in this way, and frankly I expected that one or both of the members here will at least several times mention the Dayton Agreement and its realization and their commitment to its realization. Since I haven't heard that, I sincerely hope that they will advocate the further implementation of the Dayton Agreement, in its original form, and that on this side we will not be in a position here to discuss some of these decisions, their decisions and their proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u93	Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u94	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, of course, this should be a solemn moment for BiH, regardless of the difficult and economic and political situation in BiH. I am taking this opportunity for the new members of the predsjendištvo, here I congratulate, what I would like to say, in addition to that, that BiH will need a lot of compromises and not to push for obedience, because pushing for obedience will not regulate relations in BiH, I am convinced and I want the Alijansa to change its success, and I also want to draw attention to that the stability of any government in BiH will not only depend on the parliamentary majority, but on the economic and social environment that we create in BiH, and therefore there is no need to wonder what, unfortunately, the hungry mouth in BiH will seek its right outside the institutions and the system if they feel they do not have any protection. What would be good is that it is built in the interests of the BiH citizens, not that the Presidency is planning its work based on the Alliance's progress towards change, because it opens up the constraint, whether the other citizens in the representatives or in the Presidency have their own z... and I believe that in particular in the candidates they have, therefore, once again I am using the opportunity to congratulate them and this really is a solemn moment in a very complex and difficult situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u95	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, without wanting to open up some controversy, because it is simply not an occasion, I would just like to take a few consecutive words that went into account for the Alliance's change programme, remind everyone present here and the whole Bosnian Herzegovina public that it is based on full respect and affirmation of the Dayton Peace Agreement and in this context there is no need, therefore, that similar to many so far, it has repeatedly been repeated in practice and not implemented, that the Alliance's programme for the change of the programme, which represents a consensus of interest, requires everything we have so far as an imperative need of the citizens and people of BiH, which unfortunately has not been implemented. Which unfortunately has not been implemented, so that this programme involves full, demonstration, i.e. ensuring the full needs and interests of all citizens and of all peoples in BiH and national minorities, and certainly not members of certain peoples, or certain political groups, as you will, please allow, my 9 personal opinion in principle, whether or not even what we have heard, different remarks about the withdrawal. They're not parallel systems, systems that are now formed. They're disappearing now, you know. Only those parallel arrangements have so far been embedded in the functioning of certain state institutions, and those with these programme definitions and requirements are something that disappears, and what we have on the ground is actually a resistance to this disappearance in the interest of a particular political group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u97	I thank Mr. Tokić. The question is very important and obviously inspiring and for discussion. Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u98	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow delegates and MPs, I had no intention of saying anything about this act today, because it seems to me to be either a lot of things to say to me, or to leave people in these difficult complex times, who are ahead of them and ahead of us to do a job that, hopefully, today will be entrusted and in advance, counting on it to be, I want to congratulate them and wish them a lot of success, happiness, courage, a lot of courage, a lot of things in future work, because they will need it all. This is the finale of something, practically the beginning of a process of establishing newbies in BiH, practically, it is the last link to establishing or establishing a collective head of state, the highest level of government, which is a very significant move, practically, we now have a single concept and a system of government that has been launched in the last months. But it seems to me, here I am going to get myself that luxury, one little thing today, at least for this act she missed. That's what I'm trying to say right now. I want to, too, give and acknowledge the contribution Mr. Genjac has made in his current function, especially on the rational moves he has made in these last, so to speak, for months, when this power was established. You remember that in a certain way, he tried or his rational way of thinking about breaking down certain blockades, for these reasons, and I want to give him credit as a man in this act which helped him to just get this kind of act and establish, that is to say, a practical rounding of the concept of power proposed by the Alliance and here accept some parliamentary parties. Good luck to you gentlemen in the presidency one more time, and I hope we'll help as much as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u99	I thank Mr. Munib. As far as I can see, no one's answering. So we can approach the most important and solemn act of today's session of this high house. I call on the envoys of the Bosniak people to choose to declare the appointment of Mr Beriz Belkić as a member of the BiH presidency. Who's in? I agree that 5 representatives of the Bosniak Envoys Club for Mr Belkić voted and thus confirmed Mr Belkić's appointment as a member of the BiH presidency. 10 I, of course, congratulate, and I call on the envoys of the Croatian people of this high house to declare themselves to confirm the appointment of Mr Joza Križanović as a member of the presidency. [[Applause]] With pleasure, the same 5 envoys from the Croatian people voted in favour of the appointment of Mr Joza Križanović as a member of the BiH presidency. I thank all the distinguished members of the BiH presidency. [[Applause]] Let me give you, on behalf of this high house, on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and in my personal name, my best wishes to act in accordance with what you have personally said here and in accordance with what my colleagues here have said and wish you good health and progress in our country, another congratulations to everyone. Now we're gonna take a 15-minute break, inviting you all to a nice cocktail. Thank you very much. Just thank us, Mr. Špirić. [[PAUZA]] I suggest we get back to work. Let us inform you that we have another 25 minutes to work, according to my assessment, we will then or in half an hour at the latest, if we don't finish the job, break up because of religious prayer, because of the obligation of musliman to believe, and I ask you that we have it in mind, and I am not rushing into a debate or an end to the session, but I have the impression, even so that we can end it in that time. Let's move to the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. The draft budget of the Budget of BiH and the international commitments of BiH for 2001 This important issue was also discussed at the 6th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Budget Proposal was adopted and delivered to this House. You, of course, got it. I invite you to debate, but before I inform you that you have received the positions of the Constitutional Commission and the Administrative Financial Commission, short and clear on the benches here. I assume you've managed to consult them, read them, if you haven't, it takes a minute or two. I think we're clear. If it's not clear, representatives of these commissions can explain it here. There is also a representative of the Council of Ministers if there is a need for permanent explanations. You know that we are, of course, not by our own will or anyone's will, I will not engage in that, in what way, but brought into the situation that we are now in complete need of time to adopt the budget by the end of this month, so that BiH can participate in further IMF affairs. It doesn't take a lot of reasons why we're doing this. It seems to me that, with the written opinions of our committees and the possible debate, we can successfully bring this point to an end. Here you go. If a representative of the Council of Ministers or representatives of the committees wants to do so, that is understood. I invited them, if they think it's all clear and if the envoys and delegates think it's all clear, go ahead. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u100	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the promoter regarding this item of the agenda, and before that we thank you for accepting our initiative to put these very important issues, which define future overall financial flows in our country, on an urgent and urgent basis. The documentation you have in front of you is enough, let me say, explicit and clear. We are in a situation where we must make a quick decision on the draft budget submitted by the Presidency. I remind you, the predstavnički of Representatives has defined its views through the amendments and the amendments have, on condition, been accepted by the motionors and I must say that the amendments and have sought one more significant elaborate and discussion, unless we are determined to immediately open the budget rebalancing procedure, according to our estimates, it should be by May at the latest. In that sense, I think, for this day and for this situation in which we are, it doesn't take any broader lobbying, because you have a lot of attitudes in materials, but I just want a little suggestion. In the views of the committees that we have received, the Commission for Administrative Affairs and Finance and the Constitutional Commission, just one small intervention, I propose that the House of Peoples be in charge of the Council of Ministers as his responsible partner and not his competent ministry, thus strengthening the responsibility and responsibility of the Council of Ministers in this important business. I thank you once again, and I hope that in May we will discuss the argument and the qualified and that in May we will bring the appropriate, perhaps better solutions than we currently have, which are in a certain way a compromise between what we want and what the international community accepts. Thank you very much and cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u101	Thank you and I share your hopes. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u102	My fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I think the words of Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ilija Šimić, who says we are in a teatunt here and if we are to discuss the most important document of every country. That says enough what weather we're in. I wish the strongest discussions and the most serious discussions were to be conducted on such documents within the Representative Council and the House of the Peoples of BiH. But we are in a situation where we are and probably as the chairman said, there are many things we cannot change, but at least we can warn those who prepare the documents to hold much to the position and functions of MPs and delegates. It is unserious that ladies and gentlemen of whoever it comes from, whether the Council of Ministers, the OHR of the Representative Council, should delegates, who should declare themselves five minutes before the beginning of the session, receive the material of the Budget and be adopted in unchanged or the same form. It is also unserious for representatives of the international community to understand how much we are even getting into the essence of the BiH state problem. So, I don't want to talk about what kind of ambience we are anymore. I do not dispute the need to bring, but I think the Council of Ministers who tells us or the Ministry, and here today you are adopting Budget, and here we are going to rebalancing right now. He's talking about the environment we're in. He's talking about how he works. I assure you that this same paper, here's a colleague from the Treasury Department will say it was prepared a month and a half ago. This is the 12 material that was made within the World of the Minsitors from the last convocation and we were then aware that we couldn't break through the frames for the IMF and this Ministry was quite well-worked. The Alliance has offered to change. What are they hiding in when it comes to Budget? Are we going to do more in BiH, whether the citizens are going to live richer, or are the changes only hiding in that, which instead of Nikola, Miloš will come instead of Ivo Šime, instead of Alija coming to Sejfudin, etc. I want you to see it both in the budget and in what we're going to do. What I want to say more when it comes to the budget and what is very interested in the citizens, I think that the revenue side is unreally measured, is a tragic state in which taxes participate on a percentage basis, as much as they participate in the structure of this budget, given that it is not a classic Budget, I assure you that 27 million marks will not be taken by BiH on the principle of administrative taxis. This was possible in the previous period because passports were introduced. We now have the introduction of a new passport, but should not expect the exhausted citizens of BiH to pay so much in the budget on the basis of taxis. Taxes take part in all modern states between 2% and 3%, and that's when my position was when it came to taxes. But what's there is, but I beg you, for the sake of the future, there is no need today, and if we were to make any suggestions, we would have to go back to the Council of Representatives procedure to adopt the same text and another illogicality that has been drawn since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in all budgets and in this. They are often heard from different representatives of the international community that institutions do not act in BiH but individuals. I couldn't agree more. The three-member presidency has so far spent more than both the BiH Assembly's houses and the Representative Council and the Parliamentary Assembly. We as parliamentarians must fight. I'm not saying that the presidency is a lot, but some relations and parallels must be made and parliamentary life must be brought to life, and it will live in a way that we can fight, to make more money to each other to be more serious work commissions, because what the commissions wrote was in the same situation as we did, because they didn't have time, knowing the situation was supported by Budget. But if we had at least a month to discuss it, believe that both the proportions and the structure of the budget would be quite different. So we have to figure out that we don't have any other options for tea, except to support this, and please don't open up the rebalancing story in advance, because we're going to turn out to be completely unserious. Let the question of rebalancing be opened when we at least adopt the Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u103	Let me say two sentences from here, you can't qualify this as a discussion, so I won't go out there. Of course, all this stuff that my colleague Špirić said is more or less standing. We know the situation in which our country is located both politically and socially and economically, and we could list whatever you want. We cannot change the situation significantly at this session or in the next two sessions, but this high home can change something and it will be a safe change. In the name of the College, I can say this, because I know the opinion of my colleagues, we will not accept in future that the important documents of this country and the important and strategic issues of this country are being spoken of, God Bog, in an urgent, or urgent procedure, not without enough time and opportunity for everyone in this home to get to know each other in a sufficient way, professional, social, and whatever you want. That's how much we from the College can promise. I'm referring to what I said at the beginning. We now have a budget – a budget with opinions from two of our respective committees, with the opinion of the Council of 13 ministers, and here again, a colleague from the Council of Ministers is ready to tell us something else. Here you go, if none of our delegates are answering, but they can contact Džaferović later.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on my part, I have no objections to the draft budget or to the Budget Law proposal, these are two separate points, but the logical debate goes together on both of these documents. So the BiH state should have a budget by a certain deadline. The deadline comes into force, and I propose that this House adopt the text of the Budget and the Law on Budget Implementation, as the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly did, so that, after today's vote, we have this document adopted. I also came out here because I heard one remark about the BiH budget's revenue side. I am pleased to hear that kind of debate, too, is expressed by the dissatisfaction with the weak revenue side of the Budget of BiH and I support the proposal that we discuss this matter seriously in the coming period, because I am quite confident that the Budget of BiH must be much larger in the revenue side than it is shown in this document, but let us vote, adopt this document, as the House of Representatives has done, and we will certainly open this debate at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u105	In fact, in the shortest sense, it would not be possible to bring from this home a message that the promoter is the only one responsible for this condition. I must say, the promoter did not have an address to which he would refer documents concerning this, until seven days ago. We've had the House of Peoples established. I'm asking you to respect that. We didn't have a United Nations Budget Committee in place, and I'm asking that we have that in mind. Secondly, as far as the revenue side is concerned, to the extent that we are all fighting together for the BiH state to become a real state, to this extent, the country's revenues will be given a different structure than what is now proposed, so to the extent that we all want it to be, we will create new sources that will be the direct sources of this state and BiH institutions. Thank you, and I think that all the other dilemmas that we are in and remarks to record and try to do as the House of Peoples asks and how all BiH citizens ask us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u106	Thank you, colleague Imamović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u107	In view of what has already been said, we at the Serbian People's Club have failed to study this material until the end, and therefore we propose as a club that after the debate, one break is still being held, means that we are not in a hurry to do this, that one half-hour break is given, I think that this would fit into the ear as he said in the chair of this ceremony, which is the chairman just now and that after that we come back and vote again. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u108	Of course you have the right to rest under the Rules of Procedure, but here I am calling you, perhaps unusual, but at a debate here, whether or not we're taking a break, to evaluate at this short time what we can actually achieve, whether it's half an hour, half a day or so, because we have so much at our disposal. Should we adopt this budget that we are not satisfied with any aspect of or bring the country into a very difficult position? I think we're here both as clubs and as individuals very responsible. I would pray that this home works essentially, of course I have to take a break and that I don't have to give it away, but I beg you, we've made an oath here that implies we work constructively. Let's not, I don't want to do this one word or half of anybody's replica to produce, but let's not go to, here's I can't find the right word, but I don't miss words usually, let's not go to things in the second row to jeopardize things in the first row. A colleague of Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u109	Mr. Chairman and esteemed colleagues, I would indeed fully respect all the discussions that were, they are real and I would say reflect the state and moment we are in. However, the moment is also such that today is 30.3. and that, at the request of the IMF, it is the last day today or tomorrow until this budget has to be adopted. Therefore, aware of this and aware of this situation that we will have a practical budget rebalance from the Council of Ministers in May where we will have opportunities, I hope for a more serious, wider and more contentious debate. Now, I call upon everyone together to really overcome this situation and vote this time on both the Budget and the Budget Act and May is not far away, so we're going to have a debate on the Rebalan.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u110	Thank you, Mr. Divković, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u111	I have one request, of course, regarding the Serbian People's Club of Representatives not to take a break, because there is no possibility, therefore, given everything we've been saying. I simply ask that we be aware of the situation in which this must be adopted today. So, to take a break for half an hour or an hour to get people to know each other, because I read this well, there's no possibility, in fact there's a possibility, we as MPs can refuse, go back to reading, but the conventions are much harder than to adopt it in this form than it is. That's why I'm asking you not to take a break. If there are fundamental discussions to be discussed and to simply give the possibility in a possible rebalancing to conduct a more quality debate, but what I want to warn you is that, when it comes to such documents, you should work strictly on the Rules of Procedure. It is not good at the beginning if we do not adhere to the documents adopted by us or the previous assembly of the BiH House of Peoples. Thank you very much. So, I'm asking you, Mr. Novaković as club president if you can just for a while not take a break. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u112	Here is Mr. Novaković and a member of the presidency, Mr. Belkic.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u113	Fellow delegates, I did not think that we would challenge the Budget when I asked for a break, because I am fully aware that it must be done and that it is as it is, but I thought it was perfectly normal for the delegates to get acquainted with the content, because for the reasons presented, the delegates have failed to read the text for which to vote, but here's the good news, respecting both these suggestions and the chairman and vice-president, we accept, or we withdraw the proposal for a break, but please in the future, so this is not the kind of thing our club will respect, and in the future we will insist on doing this quite differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u114	Dear counterpart Novaković, this agrees with what I have already said about the issue. Member of the presidency, Mr Belkic.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u115	I'm sorry, I'm really sorry to answer, but under the circumstances, I've been involved in the entire procedure that had the result of this document that we have. I am very pleased and grateful to the gentlemen of the Serbian People's Club, who accepts that in this way we support this project, which is one of the conditions, of course the completion of all our activities, related to the establishment and institutions and, of course, those instruments that are necessary to the institutions. I want to inform you that the Commission, I will advocate, of course, that there is a cross-section to do so. The Finance Commission and the Budget of the Assembly's House of Representatives have reached certain conclusions, and these homes will soon have a report on the implementation of the 2000 budget, information on external debt with a service level, with location of debtors etc. I just want to give you a few bits of information that we're going to get into this area in a completely different way at all, and I thank you for sort of giving you support, or rounding up this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Anyone else want to talk? If not, I call on you to make a statement according to the BiH Budget Proposal and the international obligations of BiH for 2001. Let me add the proposal, therefore, to the Commission's report and, of course, the conclusion of the House of Peoples, we adopt in the same text as the House of Representatives did. Who's in? I agree that all delegates – the envoys voted for the Budget and that we can conclude that the Budžet-Proračun for 2001 was adopted in the same text as in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I thank you for that, and we're moving on to the fourth item of the agenda. 16 Ad.4. The proposed law on the implementation of the BiH Budget and international obligations for 2001 The story is the same as it was about Budget. The same commissions have considered our home. The same procedure was conducted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Does anyone want to discuss this issue? If he doesn't want to, I invite you to vote, so who is it to adopt the Budget and Obligation Act, with amendments, of course. Thank you very much. We're unanimous again. Says fellow Špirić, that's not good. I think it is good and I am pleased to conclude that we have done this important job completely accepting all the shortcomings that you have all said and determination to avoid these shortcomings in future business. Here's the part of the big deal we did. We have two more questions left – less technical issues, which we have put under various conditions, I think we will arrive. Mr. Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u117	Mr. Chairman, I think they're delegating and sending questions now. I want to ask a question. First, I want to express my regret that in the last constitutional union of this house, there was none of the members of the Presidency and as far as I can remember, not even from the Council of Minors. I don't think it's a good practice to start working at this house and to start with, I'd say, work we all believe in, which is mutual coordination and agreements. Today the situation is different. I hope that's the way it's gonna be in the future. My question is referred to the Council of Ministers and it reads. Will the Council of Ministers also do what to sign the necessary agreement with the Republic of Austria, which would create conditions for the continuation of the free education of our students in Austria and Austrian students in BiH? The reason is that so far, many BiH students have studied at renowned universities in Austria for free, based on an interstate agreement that allowed it. The agreement is, as far as I know, that practice would continue, a new agreement should be signed. So the question is addressed to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u118	We are on a point that has been appointed a Member, i.e., etc. questions and initiatives, for the sake of a stenogram, let it be known. I have been warned to my colleague Divković, your question has been recorded, of course, I have been warned that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is also an obligation to attach it in writing, so please do so. Anyone else want an initiative or a question? Mr. Džaferović and Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are here first of all to pass important laws for the BiH state and I would like to propose to you, in this context, that you prepare a short programme for this home in this year, that the sooner the important laws come before this home, be discussed and adopted here in this house. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u120	Thank you very much. I can answer this right now. We have, the College has already had a debate with the Council of Ministers and the College is already in this business and of course it is our duty. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Presidency, it is my pleasure to see, in the adoption of the Budget, for the first time in two years, the members of the Bureau remain at work which they have begun, both under the Constitution and standing there, together with the Council of Ministers. For the two years I've been in this term for the first time in one and two years. The second moment I would especially like to point out refers to the next. As a delegate, I want to raise two questions that aren't in that big block of paper we got. We have received a proposal for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, conditional upon only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the issues of the Treasury and some other competencies that the representatives of the Council of Ministers have launched. However, it is not at all the programme that we are here on, and if you please, I would just like to request officially, therefore, that the Council of BiH, in line with the programme, which calls for this council of minsitarians, which we have jointly formulated, which we have assumed responsibility, either through the alliance, whether through partnership, with a number of parties in BiH for change, I propose, following an accelerated process of reconstruction of the Council of Minsitarians, in accordance with the policy we have publicly declared. The reconstruction implies the consent of the BiH presidency and its full involvement in changing the structure of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers' Law. This reconstruction involves, a transparent process of changing the structure of the government, or the Council of BiH's ministers in both homes in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, naturally implies a statement by the motionor. We'll get into the next position. If the Council of Ministers does not assume this responsibility, therefore, in full and does not raise the issue of the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers and its functions, in accordance with the programme, it will either do so individually to delegates in both Houses of Parliament or will do some member of the Bureau or will do one of the ministers, since this is one of the delicate things that we have publicly committed to. In my deep conviction, this is how the Council of Ministers can't continue to work, it can't follow the programme it's committed to, when it's given its term of office. So I would like this initiative not to pass as a first-session record to write that we also participated in a process of discussion that does not apply to what we said. I am precisely asking, therefore, for the Council of Ministers to consider an initiative to pass a new law, amended, complemented, concerning the functions of the Council of Ministers in BiH. It is understood that it follows the logic of the Constitution and the logic of the changes that occurred in BiH, and secondly, I will conclude with one sentence. The BiH presidency today is in full capacity to hold a meeting of the Military Committee after an accelerated procedure. I hope that the Permanent Military Committee will respond to the situation in BiH, and I underline, as I spoke on the occasion of the election of appointments and after the appointment of members of the Presidency, I demand that members of the 18 Permanent Military Committee before the BiH Parliament show very clearly what the situation is when it comes to the armed forces of BiH and I would like to draw attention to the following for this debate. We have all taken together here a very delicate commitment to constitutional changes at entity level regarding the consistency of the people and the citizens of BiH and their positions. I ask that Parliament, the House of the People of BiH, which therefore makes sense of existence, receive information to ask the College of both homes and both committees of the Constitutional Court for the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court to be actively involved in the constitutional construction process at BiH level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-30-0.u122	Thank you very much. I ask colleagues Spahić and Džaferović to deliver in writing for a day or two, when their questions arrive, it is a business obligation. Dear colleagues, Mr. Divković has already given it. This isn't club bias. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, this is the end of the 2nd session. It's not broken, it's over. Two questions that are of a technical nature will be included in the new session. Thank you very much. Session ended at 12.55
