ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3437	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 4th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to members of the meeting, the members of the BiH presidency, chaired by the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, Mrs Sonja Mozer, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe, the representative of the EU's Observation Mission to BiH, representatives of the embassy: the United States, Great Britain, Sweden and others, representatives and other international organisations in BiH. Representatives of public information funds have also been invited to monitor the work of this home. All present truly, warmly welcome and thank you for participating in the work of the House of Representatives. We also have a special honour to point out that our session is attended by a group of parliamentarians from the European countries staying in BiH to support the BiH Parliament. It is my honor to welcome the leader of this group, Mrs. Haneke Geldelbrum, and her associates. Thank you for being with us today and for hanging out with us next year, in terms of helping the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I agree that the session is attended by 41 MPs and that the session has a quorum for full work and decision-making. The absence of the session was announced by MP Amor Mašović, as he is absent from the country due to his official trip. Also, the absence was justified by Mr. Martin Raguž, the current chairman of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Parliament, in the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. As you've seen, it's only one point, which is intended for consideration at today's session as a mandatory point. Constitutionalisation of the BiH Council of Ministers, with two sub-points, (a) approval of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; and (b) approval of the appointment of ministers and of the minister's deputy. I am obliged to point out that a session with such a agenda has been convened with the consent of two members of the College. The third member of the College Mr. Mariofil 2 Ljubić justified the absence from the session of the College. You are gentlemen, too, of the BiH Presidency's decision to appoint Mr Božidar Matić as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, as well as the legal opinion of the Office of the High Representative on the nomination process of the Council of Ministers. Also, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today, also with other materials, a letter from the HDZ Parliament Club about their participation in the activities of this home is also received on the bench. We also received the position of former clubs – delegates at the Croatian delegates' Club of the Federation of BiH Parliament, who discussed the Decision of one member of the Presidency on the declaration of the Presidency on the destructive interest of the entity from which it comes, signed Mr Niko Lozančić, former chairman of the House of People of the Federation and, in that sense, I would also inform you that we have received this letter, believing that this letter was legally justified, that there was no need to be a specific copy of the results of the elections, the general elections in November 2000, after which the mandate was expired to all MPs, or delegates, and in this context we felt that this letter was not legally justified, and that it should not be specifically copied or delivered to the MPs, if it prevails to be delivered, we will copy it during the sessions and deliver it, it is not a problem. We have a ready, no problem during the session you will also get this memo and the attitude of the Croatian delegates' Club. So much for the note. Before we move to a debate on the agenda proposal. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Mr. lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3438	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers and deputy ministers, representatives of the international community, media representatives. At the very beginning of this agenda point, I would like to say that here it is, in preparation for this item of the agenda on the rough violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was accepted by this high house and I would like first of all by you, Mr. Chairman, to draw attention, that, if you continue at such a pace, you will soon be able to enter the book of the record, as a person who, most often and in the harshest way, has violated the Rules of Procedure and if he has an obligation to protect him, defends him from the other MPs and even interprets. Namely, what it's about. In your invitation, which you sent to all MPs, you called first on Article 25.1.b. The Rules of Procedure on the work of this High House, and this article says that you have the right as chairman to participate in preparations and convene sessions, but I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure because Article 25.1. speaks exactly about this, but Article 25.2. limits you to this, because you must consult the other two members of the College. Article 47.3. to which you call, says that you, too, may have the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to call upon this session in urgent cases, of course I do not wish to interpret, but I do not believe that there have been conditions for you to be able to refer to Article 117. 3 Article to which you are also calling it, Article 115. That article, unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, says that the College convenes a union, so I don't think you were able to call this session, not without the College, not without consultation, you said that there was no consultation with a member of the College. So let me move on, if you'll allow me, all in order for me to justifiably state that they're not qualified to call or hold this session today. You have already stated that a member of the BiH presidency has delivered a statement to the Croatian People's Club in the Federation of BiH Parliament, for it believes that the vital national interests of the entity from which it comes have been injured, as well as the vital national interests of the Croatian people in BiH. If we want to respect the Constitution, which means that the decision of the President, one of the members of the Presidency, must pass the procedure provided for in the Constitution, Article 5.2d. and I'm saying this for the reason that I have here and I can show it, a statement that he made, also, a member of the Presidency on December 30, '99. Mr. Alija Izetbegović also, referring to Article 5.2.d. The Federation of BiH constitution, because it was not at that time disputed, and if, according to that interpretation we received from the OHR and that statement could be controversial and, of course, in accordance with the current BiH Constitution, it was read by the Bosnian People's Club in the Federation of BiH Parliament in the House of Peoples. Also, if you had tried to break no longer the Rules of Procedure but also the Constitution of BiH, the call for a session that you sent on 19.02.2001, therefore, you did not wait for the constitutional deadline, regardless of what you are interpreting here, the former council, the former president of the home, we are missing another home, if you do not respect, you do not think that home exists, you could have waited for the new home of the people of the Federation of BiH and that this request, in accordance with the Constitution and went to a statement to those who should be declared. The predsjendištvo's decision, also on the appointment, was written and was delivered to all MPs, effective on the day of publication. You are the act as legally valid, and it is in fact invalid, until the Bureau's decision is made public in the Official Journal, you delivered the day before to the MPs, which is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure as you have violated several other acts. I would like to warn you or to point out to other colleagues that in the BiH presidency, the resolution, which also wanted to put into question in a non-business way here as a legally valid act, is therefore another proof that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. The Legal Opinion of the Office of the High Representative, who also believes that the House of the People of the Federation of BiH cannot discuss the protection of vital national interests, the actions of the country from which a member of the Presidency has come complaining about the protection of vital national interests, but among other things, I want to list here several contradictions, which are obvious in this document. First, the letter says that the home needs to be discussed in haste on the BiH Presidency's decision to appoint a member of the assembly, the prime minister for the BiH Council of Ministers, and if it is in that decision, as I have already mentioned in Article 3 of the statement that the decision takes effect on the day of publication. I there in this act 4 interpreting, improvisedly interprets the Legal Department of the High Representative that it should not even be published in the Official Journal, that it enters into force as such. However, what I particularly want to point out, and it is related to this Presidency Decision, in the last part of that memo, I do not know whether the other fellow MPs have received this letter, according to Article 5.4. The Bureau shall propose a candidate for the chair rather than appointing. So, what do we have today? Whether we have a decision to appoint or we have what the Office of the High Representative interprets as rules that must be valid in order to respect the Federation of BiH constitution. So I'm asking myself the same question as you. If he decides today and accepts this proposed agenda, what will we decide today? We have a decision by the Bureau on the appointment, which the Office of the High Representative does not consider a decision to appoint, but considers it to be an act which neither obliges nor Parliament, because the Presidency violated the Constitution, appointed one whom it considered necessary to appoint, of course, past the Constitution, after the interpretation of the Office of the High Representative, so the Office for Legal Affairs. After all, the Bureau is proposing candidates to this high house and has no authority to appoint a mandate of the Council of Ministers. The approval of the appointment was carried out today, clearly, from a letter we have, if we respect it, and we cannot respect it in that part that suits someone, we do not respect it in that part that does not correspond, we will knowingly violate the Constitution, as the High Representative did in the interpretation of the two-member BiH Presidency. Otherwise, this memo, like I said, is full of contradictions. The questions are whether it is a decision to appoint or, but whether it can be put into parliamentary procedure today or not. The Presidency, that is, this College should also be manifested today on these issues that I have raised in the opening section, because the College has the power to interpret the Rules of Procedure, which is harshly violated, in the opinion of the HDZ Representatives Club, and I would like to state the position of the Club at the end, that the HDZ Representatives Club cannot accept this draft agenda from all of this, and I call on other colleagues to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3439	I would like to thank my representative, lužanski. I will be free of just a few questions, fundamental questions to answer to lužanski, and this is about the following. The sitting shall be convened by Article 47(3). The chair may, in urgent cases, call a session. Is the session urgent, I am giving a foothold and I am finding a foothold in Article 115 that says: “After the adoption of the Presidency's Decision on the appointment of the Council of Ministers Chairman that the College is immediately obliged to convene a session”. Since the College was unable to meet on two occasions, the chairman allowed himself freedom and using this business opportunity to convene a session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Likewise. The Bureau's decision is not questionable for the House of Representatives. We can't question her. The Bureau's decision may be questionable in the place where it was taken, so in the Bureau and some of the procedures, if any, etc. It goes its course. We accept the predsjendištvo's odluka as legal and legitimate. We can't question her five. The OHR is the sole interpreter of the BiH Constitution, in this context, simply gave its legal opinion, which means that the absolute odluka of the predsjendištvo is the basic document that we have received, which we have acted on and in this context we do not want to add any less in terms of the legal opinion of the Office of the High Representative. In the end, I should also say that, the stubborn fact that on 27 November the term of office of MPs in the previous assembly and in this context should not in particular be elaborated, and at the end of the resolution that entered into the parliamentary procedure, was signed by 22 MPs, or MPs, I was obliged to inform the Presidency about it no less or less “inform” and not simply by any letter to put or associate or initiate the debate under that resolution, but I informed the Presidency that how not to make a decision with 22 signatures of MPs in the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. In this context, I ask you, House of Representatives, once again I should not and should not allow myself simply the freedom to put the Presidency's decision under question or to question it. We're the ones who just do it. Let this be done by the Presidency, or the legal authorities of this country. So, we get the Presidency's decision and we respect it, and the procedure goes its course. There is a Constitutional Court, through which you can be defiled, etc. So this was part of the answer to counsel lužanski. Ambassador Banjac. We have three minutes to define the agenda, I'm asking you to stick to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3440	Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I would like to welcome you all first. Mr. Chairman, please lower the frequency, so this doesn't turn out to be a game transfer. I'm truly asking you to be able to work better. I came out here, not to talk about the agenda, but to respond, in accordance with what I have received as a task in this House, to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I will tell you here that, as an MP, I do not want to participate in what you consider your obligation, in terms of convening or not calling, that's your job, I'm not getting into it, I'm just telling you, sir, you've harshly violated the Rules of Procedure and you're misreading Article 115. Because you, are you finished, Mr. Lagumdžija? I mean Ivo. So, article 115 says to call the session immediately, and article 47 says it's done in the Rules of Procedure, and you said nicely, I agree that you took your freedom. Yes, sir, you took your freedom and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, and as far as these matters are concerned, I am not going into what Mr. lužanski was saying, go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3441	We also had a college yesterday. Mr. Ljubić had nothing special against today's session or agenda, in that sense we felt that we had reached agreement. Mr. lužanski again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3442	Mr. President, that my claims are correct, that you're violating the Rules of Procedure, you once again violated it when you allowed me to speak for over three minutes and if 6 business days were said that I could speak on the agenda, no, no, he should have interrupted me, he didn't have to let me talk. I would like to warn you, here I was expecting you to interpret this document, or interpret the high office, as you interpret, that the home of the people does not exist and that the Presidency's decision is legal and legitimate, that we cannot discuss it, and that what is also defined in Article 5.2d. We can discuss and interpret as we please. Once again, I just want to say that the predsjendištvo does not propose a candidate for the chairman, so it does propose a candidate for the chair rather than appoint. The presidency appointed a candidate, so it broke the Constitution. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3443	Thank you. We're bringing the discussion to an end. We have an intervention, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3444	Dear Presidents, since I've been mentioned several times, I'm obliged to just say, I wasn't at that college when the session was scheduled, for one purely technical reason. I got a call for the union on Friday at 1632, when I wasn't at work. I had other obligations on Monday, and I didn't do it. I will certainly vote against the agenda, because I do not believe that constitutional powers, constitutional authority and the predsjendištvo and this home are met to discuss it, should have waited maybe ten days and had it all. This is not a procedural question for me, so I won't say it now, this is a fundamental constitutional issue and a question of equality in BiH. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3445	Thank you, Vice President of the House of Representatives, Mr. Ljubic. Is there anyone else who'd like to take your word for it? If we can move to an act of voting on the agenda, it is the last and only valid and legal decision of the House of Representatives. We're approaching the vote. Who's for the proposed agenda? Who's against the agenda, the way he's proposed? Who's restrained by the proposed agenda? Thank you. I think we need an entity vote. Who's in, from the Federation of BiH? Thank you. Who's in RS? We can announce the results of the vote. In the first round there were 41 – 29 MPs voted in favour – against 4 – abstentions 7. By entities. From the Federation of BiH, for it was 22 – from RS 7 – which means a business decree was respected that a simple provision that one third of the MPs from each entity's area must agree with the agenda and with the decision, in that sense I declare that the proposed agenda has been adopted. Thank you for that. We have an intervention. It says four against here. You can ask for an individual vote that's not a problem. The first round of voting is at stake. Five, We Correct — 5. Okay. 7 We can move to the realization of the agenda, I repeat once again that for the 4th session of the House of Representatives, the following agenda is adopted: 1. Constitutionalisation of the BiH Council of Ministers (a) approving the appointment of the BiH Council of Chairmans (b) approving the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers to point 1.a. agenda. Ad.1.a. The approval of the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers should first and foremost read the Presidency's decision. The Bureau's decision was delivered. Number: 0190/01 of 15 February 2001. In addition to the act, we are delivering a Decision of the BiH Presidency on the appointment of the BiH Presidency Council of Ministers, as well as a biography of the chairman Prof. Dr. Božidar Matić. On the basis of Article 5(4), The Constitution of BiH and Article 6. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministries (BiH Official Messenger, No. 11/01) at the 93rd session, held on 13 February 2001, reached a decision on the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. Article 1 Prof. Dr. Božidar Matić, is named BiH Council of Ministers Chairman. Article 2 The decision, to confirm, is delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Article 3 The decision will be published in the BiH Official Messenger and will take effect on the day of its publication. No. 014-02-186/01 Sarajevo, 14 February 2001, chairman of BiH Presidency Živko Radišić. I call on the proposed and appointed chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Dr Božidar Matić, to submit his programme and exposés to Dom. The exposé is not printed, it will be approved and delivered to all MPs after the presentation. I'm sorry, I think we're trained to simply be able to evaluate and simply discuss what's to be presented. The chairman of the Council of Ministers means candidate by decision of the Bureau of Prof. Dr. Božidar Matić, come in. I'm asking you to take the agenda. The word has Professor Dr. Božidar Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3446	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable representatives of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respected members of the Presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, your Excellency and media representatives, thank you for your voted confidence, to maintain the exposés, it is a great privilege. I have held numerous consultations with political parties, which are participating at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and which make up the parliamentary majority. Around the core elements of the programme, which I will present to you, unity and a high degree of political consensus have been achieved. Today's session proves a radical change in the political environment. A few general memories. The Council of Ministers will fully respect Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal structure, which is defined by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this mandate. The Council of Ministers will stimulate the strengthening of Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions, in terms of creating conditions for their effective, functional and responsible action. Priorities in his work will be co-operation with entities and the international community, with the aim of faster economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the efficiency of the fight against corruption, the integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European, legal, political and economic system, and the equality of all peoples and citizens living in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers will pay particular attention to the protection of human rights, both individual and collective and Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement, which I will consistently implement under my jurisdiction. Joining the Council of Europe is the essential interest of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With this, the Council of Ministers will act within its competence to adopt the regulations and documents, both at national and entity levels, which the Council of Europe has classified as a minimum condition for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. However, the focus of this exhibition will be on Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic situation and the measures we want to take. Very short, Bosnia and Herzegovina is highly dependent on exports. In the last business year, before the war, i.e. 1990. Bosnia and Herzegovina exchanged 80.1% of its gross social product or jidi-pia, as it is now said, with its environment and 57% with other republics earlier Yugoslavia and 22.7% with the real abroad, therefore, exports outside Yugoslavia. That year, a trade surplus was also reached in foreign exchange trade, worth half a billion US dollars or 4.8% of the then-drinks. The exchange of 80% of djidi-drinks with total conservation, and 57% with the republics of ex Yugoslavia, I say, is highly dependent on exports and is highly dependent on high percentages, which are unreachable in new conditions, because the former internal market of ex Yugoslavia has become the external market for BiH businesses, the openness of the markets in each of the former republics has been increased, in these markets competing companies from the surrounding countries not damaged in the war, the competitive capacity of companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina has been reduced, by the interruption of investing in modernising new capacities during and after the war, which averaged nearly $1.4 billion a year before the war. The existing capacities have been disabled by war destruction and the disintegration of businesses, more than 30% physically. 9 However, intellectual capital, production engineering and project firms and research and development centres have been destroyed over 90%. Companies lost markets outside the region because of their lack of presence during the war. In the suspended capacity, no amortisation has been invested, and those capacities that have not been physically damaged have also been impaired. The Balkan system has been destroyed. The instruments of our banking system are few who in the world want to receive. Reforms and the transition process towards market economy have been halted, while these processes continue in other transition countries, our future competitors in the region. BiH's high dependence on the exchange of jidi-pi with an environment of contributions and the structure of the industry that has been developed to be the primary export of raw materials and semi-products for the industry of other republics earlier Yugoslavia. The truth is that, after the war, with the help of the international community, reconstruction was achieved, which was also 35% a year in some years, however, it should be noted that this was achieved on an extremely low basis. Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to all statistics, remains the second poorest country in the region. Only Albania is poorer in the judi-pei per capit, and self-sustainability has not been achieved. The measure of how far Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy is from self-sustainability can be seen from the fact that export coverage, according to the Central Bank's latest data in the Federation of BiH, is 21.4% in RS for the first three quarters of 2000 years. In doing so, foreign direct investment, which I will continue to call the Evdi-aji, are minor, therefore the balance of payments and this fantastic conversion mark balance the donated funds in principle. In order to define the cause of such a high indicator of non-sustainability, an analysis of the situation should be carried out, by factors of achieving competitive capacity, which are: the openness of the country, state and state of state institutions, the state of finance, the state of infrastructure, the state of technology, the state of management, the state of working relations and the state of civil institutions. The situation is not equal by all factors. Relatively, they can be considered to be a success of the situation in two factors, infrastructure and openness. Infrastructure has been recovered almost to pre-war levels. However, as a negative one, it must be pointed out that the Railway and, if physically recovered, is less useful than its opportunities because of the lack of transport policy of earlier governments, and this was particularly used by the strong lobby of road transport operators. Openness. Free imports, it's positive, first I'll say positive, free imports, rare hidden barriers in imports, real exchange rate, expected stable exchange rate in the next two years, free amount of profits from the country, foreigners in investment have domicile status, moderate customs duties. But now negative. A very important aspect of openness. The export position, as a national priority objective, has not been established. Other priorities are in place. In other factors, problems are much bigger. State, negative one. The country's strong influence on unprivitised companies. High management spends a lot of time with state red tape. State budget 10 does not encourage research in companies' development. State economic policy is under the influence of stakeholders, even on a nationalist basis. It's complicated to start a new business. Six months ago, when this was written, 14 steps of registration procedure was needed and lasted for months, the new data is 18 steps of registration procedure. Civilian services are under political influence, especially the judiciary. The tax system doesn't help the competitiveness of businesses. Many budget items are not realised because of smuggling and the grey economy, and the legal economy is overloaded. Public consumption, which in the period '96-'98 for which data exists, averaged 62% of the jidi-pi, is unbearable. It's a high trading deficit, which I just said, a little earlier, is the unfavourable relationship of employees through pensioners 1.4 of everything. No additional value tax was introduced. Gruntonic transactions last for months. A positive result can be considered to be the full independence of the Central Bank and the government, resulting in the maintenance of the domestic currency bond with DM strictly 1-1, as well as low inflation. The financial situation – first negative. Financial market sophistication is very low. The institutions of the financial markets are only in the establishment. Credit availability is low. Domestic banks do not have a significant competition of foreign assets. The banks have limited their support and only give it to small businesses, as the larger ones are unable to support, even by issuing guarantees. It's hard to get even a small loan, just based on a business plan and no collateral. It's a high level of risk banking. The difference between interest on loans and interest on deposits is greater than international standards and can be much more than 10%. The stock bond market doesn't exist. There's no such thing as risk-capital. The financial regulation is, and if based on the top model in implementation is significantly below the world's top practice of special supervisory. In view of the low starting base of total domestic investment, only 31.19% of gidi-pi, as well as the trend in the growth of total domestic investment is weak. All 7.7 percent points. Total domestic savings are low, only 6.8% of the djidi-pi. Trend changes in total domestic savings are not enough 0.41% points. The participation of domestic loans in the private sector is low. All 56%. High risks are in the financial sector, which keeps interest rates high and significantly higher than 25%. And if it's a stable domestic currency, the country's credit rating is low and the country isn't even ranked. The total assets of the banking sector are low, only 51% djidi-pi, unlike, say, Luxembourg has 650% of its djidi-pi in the assets of the banking sector, and we have 0.50. The banking sector's own property is extremely low, only 18% djidi-pi. Because of the lack of confidence in domestic banks, BiH citizens have deposits abroad that are judged by serious fines. an institution larger than $5 billion. Positive estimates in this area can be given, relative to two fines. criteria: the establishment of new banks is easy and subject to sound regulation, and interest is the result of the market, without State interference. It's a state of technology. Research institutions were completely destroyed in the war and were not subject to investment in post-traumatic recovery. Public sources for funding research and development work have not been restored after the war and do not exist. The private sector does not invest in research and development work. The co-operation of industry and universities in research and development projects was not established after the war, due to the impotence of the unrecovered industry. Companies are very little investing in the absorption of new technologies, for the same reason. Foreign direct investment was only 2.5% djidi-pi in '98. For which I have the data and have not brought the technology transfer, which is the biggest sadness. 11 Before the war, significant licensing of foreign technologies was not renewed after the war. Intellectual property is not yet protected, because the state patent and stamp institution, and if it exists for several years, did not have legal status until December, until it was forced by a high representative. Outside of academic circles, e-mail is used a little bit. Internet usage for electronic commerce, customer service and relationship with suppliers is negligiblely small. The total cost of researching development, without military ones, which reached one and a half percent of the jidi-pei before the war, now do not even exist as an item of official state statistics. The computer's small. All 30 per thousand inhabitants. Even in cell phones, there is no better situation, 1.05 per 100 inhabitants. Internet users are few, only 5,700 per million inhabitants. The number of university students has reached pre-war levels, but only 15% is the appropriate population. For comparative purposes, Canada has 90% of university students of the appropriate population, so 19 to 24 years old we 15. Positive assessments can be given the quality of the engineering population, good representation of mathematics and natural sciences in school programmes. 60% of internet users are from businesses, it's considered positive. Management. Ever since you heard these three, let me tell you what these cutting sentences I'm saying mean. These are all, each of them is one of 184 criteria, with the World Economic Forum assessing the competitive capacity of a country. Management, the overall quality of management is not satisfactory. Most managers are educated in the former socialist system and have relatively good knowledge about the markets in goods and services, but not about financial markets and labour market and human resources management. Tiku, a total collective management concept is known to a very small number of managers. In state-owned enterprises, only spontaneously attracts and develops and motivates top quality associates. The training of employees is carried out, only for the middle management level of management and not enough, while high levels fully absorb, and low levels are not given an opportunity. The delegation of powers to lower levels, after the government of earlier social enterprises, has disappeared. The centralization of the authority has left devastating consequences, which are slowly being seen now. The quality of work is mediocrely related to pay. Production processes, which were before the war with better technologies, but in most transition countries, are not modernised and are now among the most lagging. The orientation, according to marketing, can be assessed as mediocre. There is no product of services and a technological process by which BiH would be recognizable in the world. And if there were before the war, export companies do not affect product development. Business technologies are not the result of the development of their own products. The design of the product is rarely developed locally. The internationally recognised brand only had several companies before the war, but it was not renewed, while private companies were newly created, mostly not exportable and had not developed internationally known brands. Global market aspirations had several major businesses before the war, but they were destroyed and they were not helped to recover, and if there is a moderate number of quality business schools, their participants are willing to pay for it themselves. Business support is an exception, not a rule. During the war and after many managers with foreign language knowledge and international experience have left the country and are now a deficit. Only a middle and lower level manager uses computers in his work. The assessment of the efficiency of management by the Management Boards is not crucial in state-owned enterprises. The Manjamnt depends on the will of 12 ruling parties. Relatively positive assessments can be given to the competence of financial directors in companies. The company's orientation towards the buyer is great. Bigger companies are making exports through their own trade organisations, raising the high importance of exports to neighbouring countries. Work. Work ethic is at the level of socialist states. Minimum wages have a high impact on the total labour price. Employees have no influence on the new admission of employees or have an effect on dismissal. Ensuring the unemployed is not the result of social protection balances and employee motivation. Social function has been left in state-owned enterprises and does not help their market flexibility. In private companies, strikes are rare and in non-privatised enterprises they last long and are often vain post-traumatics. Trade unions and employers are not cooperative. Collective negotiation did not become a general practice in implementation. The enrollment in primary schools and secondary schools, as an estimate of the grassy population, is at a low level, only 69.8% in primary and 41.8 in secondary jobs. But since there are no standards of quality education there are no exact no, but only approximate estimates, that quality is lower than before the war. Employees' salaries cost companies and up to 181% of the amount that employees carry home. Unemployment is estimated at 39% in the Federation and 41% in RS, which is data from the central bank's bulletin the other day. Labour legislation does not allow labour to be adapted to the conditions of demand on the market for goods and services. Positive assessments can be given, with regard to the duration of individual levels of education, 8 years primary 4 years secondary and 4-6 years and. And two years postgraduate. There's no record of an average number of years of reaching a doctorate. Unemployment was reduced from 95th to the end of 98th from an estimated 80% to these above figures. State of civil institutions. It is hard to believe that legal and political institutions will remain stable significantly unchanged over the next five years. Private companies owned by high-ranking party officials are favoured by governments and public enterprises, especially when it comes to public procurement, which were known to be awarded without bid. Corruption affairs under way demonstrate the existence of irregular payments in order to avoid taxes, customs, etc. to protect or obtain unsecured loans. The judiciary is under pressure from politics and the threat of criminal groups, and judges even hesitate to execute the mortgages. Trust in the verdict, judgments of courts and competent authorities is low. Judgments are often not carried out. Convictions against state authorities are rare. The damage to businesses due to illegal behaviour of the state is rarely obtained in court, if the verdict is won, even more rarely carried out. Business often cannot rely on police professionalism to protect itself. Organized crime significantly increases the costs of some types of business. Relations with some neighbouring countries make business activities difficult. The country's international relations are such that visas are needed for travel to all countries, except for a few exceptions. Trust in politicians' honesty is low. The breakdown of the monopoly is not carried out by the state, even where it is technically possible. Companies both private and state-owned are under pressure to donate to political parties, which are ruling in the territory where businesses are licensed. 13 Positive assessments can be given for the habit of private business that disputes are settled outside the court rather than in court, and if the moderate costs and legal fees are due, but with the note that avoidance of courts may be the result of ineffectiveness of slowness, so they do not address them. The state authorities generally recognise the obligations, which were created earlier than they took over power, so that's a positive one. Public sector bids, without interference, include foreign companies. There are objections to the international community that during the investment only in private newly formed small and medium-sized enterprises, it completely left aside the recovery of large state-owned enterprises, which were carriers of competitive capabilities before the war. However, these objections do not stand. The state is slow and inefficient to privatise these companies, and all international community bodies have firmly conditioned that the aid condition, previously implemented, has been privatised. By the end of '98, only 2.3% of the programme's funds were invested in the industry from the priority reconstruction and reconstruction programme. It can be concluded that this phenomenon of the Stability Pact, which has security and economic objectives, will benefit first from BiH's recovery, but has found BiH in a state of enormous lack of competitive capacity at all, but also from countries in the region that have not suffered a terrible war and destruction like BiH. International aid therefore needs to concentrate precisely on improving the competitive performance factor, so that BiH does not become a country of money within the region and the Stability Pact, in which other countries of the region see only an easy market for their exports. Therefore, in the next text, the questions will be based on the idea of increasing BiH's competitive ability to export and secondly, with regard to the attractiveness of foreign direct investment, because loans are not a solution for a country already over-indebted, about $3.65 billion of US dollars and where domestic investors do not know how to use capital effectively. I'd like to give you an explanation here. Two types of competitive abilities. Those related to the competitive capacity of goods and services, how they can fight on the foreign market, and another type of competitiveness that BiH is competitive in attracting foreign capital to other countries that also compete and want to attract foreign capital. I concentrate on this second one, therefore, on the country's attraction for foreign capital, on this competitive ability, and when it comes to foreign investors, it will certainly not produce anything here that will not be competitively able to sell. Strategic goals, the main objectives of economic policy for Bosnia and Herzegovina's re-issalisation. As seen, without a high exchange with abroad, the self-sustainability of BiH's economy is impossible, and a high exchange with abroad is impossible without significantly improving the country's competition and ability. For most factors that depend on competitive ability, investment is needed. It's just a small number of those that can be improved without investment, for example. a change in some policy. Only part of the investment can be resolved through further credit debt, already over-indebted countries, and mostly in infrastructure. Domestic capital, which is in the country, is insufficient, but even if part of BiH citizens' deposits from abroad return to domestic banks. As a logical conclusion, the need for intensive foreign direct investment is imposed, which will not be made, until those factors on which the business climate in BiH depends are improved. This applies both to investments in existing companies, which will not be without the privatisation and investment in new businesses. All this huge reform procedure has to be done with the minimisation of social unrest. That series of conditionality and sets strategic goals for the recovery of BiH's economy. Radical improvement of business, completion of the 14 privatisation process, reform of the banking sector, improvement of social protection levels. If successes are achieved in these areas, they will appear... and bring the desired effects, which is the growth of competitive ability, growth of performance, self-sustainability, then as a harvest, the final growth of employment and the growth of jidi-pi. Experience and standards in Europe show that exportable jobs are on average invested with around 200 thousand German marks per job. Our positive practice from the past shows, we also had jobs of $200,000. Here, for example. Smelter in Mostar, the aluminum smelter had about $200,000 per employee, and then, of course, such plants can create competitively capable goods, but a standard of 200,000 marks, if we consider that we have some remaining assets, no for half of that, so, 100,000 marks of new investments are required by the workplace of 100,000 marks. It's a rough bill, just to see various problems, 450,000 unemployed, times 100,000 marks of 45 billion investment, bringing BiH to a pre-war level of development. 45 billion marks, and when we assume that there's this data on the external savings of our citizens about $5 billion, so 10-12 billion, that's such a small amount, and if we were all attracted to this, I just want to draw out how many foreign direct investments are the only solution. We can't expect state money and state aid from the country to help create jobs here, because they don't do that to themselves either. The countries there are also used to being an infrastructure investor in the market economy, but jobs open exclusively private business activities, so private foreign direct investments are a solution for us. The most important factor in attracting foreign investment is the business climate in which they fall into the sub-chapter of an independent judiciary, fiscal and tax policy, fair, efficient, cheap state administration, good labour legislation and the offensive takeover of the European Union's registration in accordance with the White Paper, or as it is referred to as a kiscommunity. An independent judiciary is the unattainable goal of all post-Communist countries in transition. In addition to being the basis of civil society and the achievement of civil freedoms and every order in the country, it is necessary for any segment in which a dispute may occur. Without an independent and efficient judiciary, banks cannot achieve the security and realization of mortgages on the part of... the craters, entrepreneurs cannot protect themselves against non-commercial risks. Employees and employers deal with disputes, which loses the meaning of collective agreements. Elimination of corruption and organised crime is not possible, etc. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is our assessment that the courts are contaminated by the party's influence on power through the mechanism and the appointment and recall of the judge. So-called judges, political parties in power directly influence cases in which they have political interests. The best reception is the slow work of courts in the return of tenant rights, which are the condition of the annulment of ethnic cleansing during the war and after the war and on all three territories, where nationalist parties were in power, under the influence of executive officials in some parts of the Federation of BiH territory, cantonal courts do not recognise the Federation Supreme Court decisions. Judges are also under pressure from threats, organised crime, when they bring judgments, in which they threaten the economic interests of organised crime members, and in particular cases of convictions for the organisation of mortgages in bank disputes with debtors, which are from miles of organised crime. 15 Reaching independence of the judiciary is a goal in which international assistance is necessary. Status of fiscal and tax policy. The continued growth of the jidi-pi requires harmonisation of fiscal systems among entities, more transparency in state finances, through the establishment of a top law firm at BiH level, entity levels, as well as cantonal levels within the Federation. Strengthening institutional capacity for budget planning and programming as well as better budget execution and budgetary expenditure control, regulating the financing of joint BiH authorities, effective external debt management, with the aim of increasing the level of collection of state revenue and taxes and contributions, it is necessary to harmonise and coordinate state systems between entities and in the Federation between cantons to eliminate tax and contribution payments, lower the amounts, but to increase the rate of all taxes and wages, regulate customs collection and the establishment of border police to ensure full financial control and eliminate the avoidance of customs duties. Introduce additional value tax within 2-3 years. To change the existing customs collection regime on the principle that it is paid where the consumer lives, rather than where the customs duty is collected. This will require coordination between entities and increasing the capacity and efficiency of the customs administration. I've already made it up. You will get this paper, it treats what measures we will take for an honest and efficient and cheap state administration, for labour legislation, to take over the European Union's registration against the White Paper, then, what to do in privatisation, I will only read the titles. Finally finish small privatisation, start privatization of large enterprises, start privatising infrastructure, expect from entity commissions for valuable papers the realization of what they were founded for, etc. The introduction of the securities market, we will support investment funds, consider it to be one of the essential ways in privatisation, it is necessary to finally adopt a restitution law. We still can't tell if one who naturally returns or pays, but he must finally be brought in to know what he is, because foreigners won't invest in suspicious assets, etc. Furthermore, pressure from the international community to remove the privatisation resistance is necessary. Authorities have so far publicly declared supporting the privatisation process, but all seemed to slow down and delay the process. The reason is obvious. The ruling non-privatised enterprises, the appointment of directors and boards of directors, drew money from state firms, which maintained power. The obstacles that are created are different. Let us only give two examples. It can almost be said that the small capacities of the land library offices are deliberately maintained, preventing the production of privatisation programmes in companies is becoming difficult to prevent, etc. Furthermore, the generated process, which prevented the restructuring of large enterprises by prohibiting the registration of new daughters' enterprises, if the parent company or any previously formed subsidiary of the daughter, has any unsettled obligations, thus the suspended rule that the parent company is responsible for the daughter's company only to the level of funds invested, and restructuring is blocked. In the reform of the banking sector, we have plans to privatise all banks, which are not privatised. We will support the international community's views, which wants to integrate, which requires integration with capitalised banks. Standards and practices of bank supervisory practices should be increased in line with European standards, with intensive technical assistance from foreign actors in entity banking control agencies. This measure, among other things, will bring 16 increases in confidence in the domestic currency. Then, the established entity deposit insurance agencies should be activated, which should attract savings to domestic banks, which are members of the insurance of these institutions and if we consider that the maximum of 5,000 marks provided is small, but about that. Then there is a need for further reform of the payment system. What has been done so far is good, however, I must say that what the previous CAP has done, it has done four functions, it has worked clearing, radio vault function, radio money traffic and statistical financial affairs. I would have this fourth, so these three are in good trend, but the issue of statistical affairs and data processing is early Bosnia and Herzegovina's cancer. We won't be able to measure any of the ups and downs soon, unless BiH's statistical system is regulated. The situation is very bad, even in two entities there are two different standards, and then it is not possible to conclude a BiH statistical report. I think we're going to ask that the role of KAFAO be extended to, as well, not only customs, but also the tax system and that if... to support the development of statistical institutions or whatever they're called. It's about social security. Social protection essentially belongs to entities and the Council of Ministers will provide all support to address these problems. However, for what I look back at here, because foreign direct investment will not enter the country, where public roads are blocked every day, where the process of dissatisfaction goes, block public buildings, etc. That image, there's something that needs to be done. That is why we will give full support and the social assistance sectors and the pension sector and the issue of veterinary benefits and the social problems of displaced and refugee families will be resolved. The main conditions on which the achievement of these objectives depends. Galv conditions for static targets and all other objectives to be achieved can be structured as follows. Money, knowledge, and political will are needed, with often conditions intermittently combining two or even all three basic conditions. Looks like there's a fourth condition. The capacity of institutions needed for reform actions, which is dealt with by money and knowledge, if there is a political will to solve the problem, and will not be commented further. Money. Donor conferences organised by the Conscious Bank and the European Union, etc. They've secured a program for priority reconstructions of that $5.1 billion PRP, of which, by the end of this year, we've seen the data, that there's still about a billion in the process. So it's agreed and it's not realised, and if at the moment of writing this text I don't have official statistics for last year, it can be determined that our balance of payments will not be able to cover foreign direct investment. They're minor, and this priority reconstruction program is dying down, and now the question is how do we maintain the convergence of the brand? That's the thing that in our opinion will require that, if we require one donor conference, which would give at least one billion dollars, minus the foreign direct investment achieved. So, a billion, if there are 400 million foreign investments then 600 million donations, otherwise it comes to the question of shooting KM. Question, so the money's in that frame. It's a matter of knowledge. As part of the priority reconstruction programme, the international community has given a high place to all types of training and consulting. It is difficult to find an area of reforms that have not implemented training and consulting actions. Make it a... privatisation with courses for agency legislators, for privatisation, for companies that prepare privatisation plans, for banks, for investment funds, etc. Then, there was intensive training related to the judicial system for customs duties, anti-corruption activities, the registration of securities, media, standards, 17 for quality in production, minimumisation of energy losses, etc. Access to all types of training is easy, available to a large number of people blind. The general assessment is that lack of knowledge is not the main obstacle to the reform processes in BiH. Political will. The structure of the BiH government was a major obstacle to reforms. So far they have been in power of the nationalist political parties and the opposition has been party to civil orientations, which represent the ideology of civil society. The parties in power were with each other in the coalition, in terms of maintaining the government and there they helped each other with their heart and were at the same time insufferable opponents in the working sphere, accusing each other of uniting the state, destruction, etc. In the Federation of BiH, it's a permanent blockade and I'm not now stating what ridiculous things we've had, from passport color to what kind of
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3447	Thank you, Dr. President. Matić at this exhaustive and interesting and hopes for all inspired exposure to all the contradictions that are present today in BiH's development and future time. Dr. Crescent. Matić is a normal candidate for the chairman of the 18-minister council, in this sense I open the debate following the opening presentation, or the Council of Ministers' programme. Please, who's answering for the word? Does that mean we don't have a discussion after Dr. Matić's presentation? We're closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3448	Mr. Chairman, I don't think it's appropriate for us to discuss something we didn't get in writing. So I'm asking for a 15-minute break that the programme presented here in oral form is presented to the representatives, so we could discuss it better.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3449	Thank you, Agent lužanski. In accordance with the tradition, also to the Rules of Procedure, which does not oblige the mandater, i.e. the candidate for the Council of Ministers, to deliver in writing to MPs before its programme, i.e. the opening presentation. Absolutely, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3450	I feel obliged to tell you why you didn't get it. This is all written, but in three parts. Believe me for these seven days, I've given priority to the consultations, that the more people I hear and I haven't been able to close in a whole text tonight and I asked that the Office of the Assembly give the text that I'm going to authorise and share. I am this, watch out for the Parliamentary Assembly, all kinds of parliamentary in BiH, here are three months from the election, and I had time for all this from Thursday to Thursday. So I'm asking you to appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3451	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, respected representatives of the international community, esteemed journalists, I will begin with that one quote by Tin Ujević, which says, "Oh Bog, cut off my troubles, because you see that I have no talent for a great martyr." It seems to me that this House of ours doesn't have much talent for it either. I, earlier, warned of the past, not to repeat now, when it comes to former fellow MPs, said of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will only mention Article 4 under point 3e again) of the BiH Constitution, Article 5 under point 4.a. and c. where it is rough about breaking the Constitution, where we go and break and we have not established a legislative part of the government at all, which means the creation of the full Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But today we see what democracy is and apparently it is trained here and demonstrated. Gentlemen, we from HDZ know well what democracy is, which is the voice, or here the hand is no longer, and we are not mistaken that we do not know what it is doing, or what direction it is going in, but we are wondering on the other side, is that even moral, is that what BiH's prosperity gives, is that those who participate in something are those who can bring BiH out of this hell, or free it from the hell that was in the previous 19 years, when it bled. I don't think that's a good solution, and I think it was a good suggestion. First, both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure were violated, warned by the interpretation of the OHR and I now, today I no longer know who interprets the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, the OHR or we here or a certain group who wants to break things over their knees at any cost, where I consider the exclusion to be not good. Exclusiveness can, if it's stubborn, move on the head, because it's very dangerous and it's very responsible to go to such a combination. I listened to the presentation of my friend, or forgive Mr Matić, who announced, or at least his party announced a quick reconstruction plan for BiH, and I see that he is obviously fast. However, I don't know if it's a concept, but at least I have SDP indications or the concept of the future chairman of the Council of Ministers. I mainly heard the finding, what it was, what it was, what it was and how it was, but I did not see, or could not read the vision and future strategy of economic development and all other developments of BiH, that is, how to create and make a plan of the Council of Ministers, which must go through one normal procedure, the process of planning, programming, budgeting and what are the ways of purchasing funds for the development of BiH and for its self-sustainability. I have recorded here a little, as far as I was able to capture, says: "Four key elements that I have drawn for BiH, which the Council of Ministers will do in the future, says should be entrusted with new foreign capital." Well, we're in a lot of debt. Is this, meaning that BiH would recover, BiH should be refreshed by new foreign capital. So that's what we've already had, and that's what we young people pay today, is that it means that these still have to be in charge so that we can pay back. This would be a disaster for BiH. Secondly, finish the privatisation process, drag foreign investors through the privatisation process. Certainly the privatisation process, but the introduction of foreign investors, not in a way, Mr. Matić, to buy businesses that are citizens of BiH, have gained their jobs here, but to open new businesses and create new jobs, rather than what was done in the Federation against the legal privatisation agency, exempt companies that are in the portfolio of the Federation government and release them into the privatisation process, where foreign investors will buy these companies, where BiH Elektroprivreda, Post office and all major facilities will go into the hands of foreigners. I have nothing against entering foreign capital, but I have against it because they weren't involved in building it. Therefore, this concept, Mr Matić, is defeating BiH as you brought it out, that is, how I understood it. I'm willing to fight when it comes to this part, because I think I'm absolutely right and let him tell me the opposite of how he thinks differently, because I know this matter well. Importing value added tax, just work. We're going to introduce value added tax, we have people who have nothing to eat. We don't have production. What we're going to introduce, on what basis we're going to introduce, which is in that element to strengthen the state, we don't have production, we don't have anything, and we're introducing added value when it comes to this part, a little bit of what people can breathe, it needs to be choked completely so it can't just die. That's another one of the defeating. He says to demand, and the fourth element that would save all this requires a donor conference, and if I understood annually at least that someone felt sorry for us and gave us a billion marks, so that they could survive and come to the original state. I'm not up for that concept. I'm for the concept of opening new jobs. For 20 concepts where BiH is, they will have prosperity where they will not be in debt and where they will not kneel on their knees to give it. I think that BiH citizens are able to work, that they are certainly a quality workforce and that they can do much more than those who want to sell us their brains, because a lot of BiH citizens sell their brains in those other countries. So, I think the program as a program should have gone in another direction, and if I don't see it as a program, because I can't read it from it, I say, a vision that's the most important thing or the most important thing, or the strategy of doing it all, I believe Mr. Matić knows it, but it seems to me that this was a little more party manifestation, and the judiciary and the thieves, and the criminals, it certainly needs to be shut down both criminals and thieves and everything else and those who, before and after the war, stole. I stand for something like that. I go first of myself, let them open me and then on, so also those who in the former system stole the people and those who stole the people, that is to say, made a fortune on the blood of the people who suffered here in BiH. I totally agree with him, but I think this is a missed concept, based on which you want to do it. My proposal will be, however, with the respect of Mr Matić and if he is not a representative of the order of the Croatian people, probably hrvt is, I don't know, at least by name and I don't know at all, I think that Mr Matić should withdraw soy exposure and for moral reasons for BiH's well-being and for historical reasons give up the place, because I think that this concept and the events within BiH, and including this all I know is a violation of the Constitution of BiH, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the exclusion of someone who knows to resolve it, that we can't wait for the national interest of whether or not to protect him, whether it is necessary to form the House of Representative of the Federation or not to find someone and to be the one who may well be the representative of the representative or someone who is not concerned with the concept of the BiH, who should first go, and if it is necessary to have the House of the Federation of the Federation, at least, at least over 50% support of the Croatian people who are not the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one person who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one person who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one person who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the person who is the one who who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person, who is the person, who is the person, who is the person who is the person, who is the person who is the person, who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person who is the person, who is the person Lagumdžija is the person who is the person who is the person, who is the person who is the person, who is the person who is But I call on Mr Matić, he will probably understand me as a man, and I call on the SDP that this is not what we need, that we should not wait for a new one, when it comes to the constitution of the Federation's House of Representatives, to see what that home will say, to respect the procedure and not to break things over our knees, because once it is wrong, but depends on what, says miners once they are wrong, then they are done. I am afraid that we do not make one mistake that is not good, which will wipe out one people and thus question BiH's sovereignty and I believe, unless it is respected and respected by one of the three sovereign and constitutional people that BiH's sovereignty is asked that something that BiH does not want us to have and brings us back, which is obviously not our wish and as far as I'm concerned, believe me, you can vote me and 21 will also propose to your colleagues. I will not participate in this historic, shameful act if there is a vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3452	I'd like to thank Agent Grabovac. I beg you, let's go in order, Ambassador Banjac has come in for a word. There's no break from the Rules of Procedure for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3453	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests, MPs, I'd like to say a few words about what I've heard here. I don't understand this HDZ gentleman. At least they understood the language if nothing else, and I allow myself to, and even sometimes, not, when it comes to what I heard, I expected that there would be one order that was absolutely in the world and here accepted and that was that after an analysis of the situation, here and now followed by operationalized programming bases bar and direction of development in the areas. It's nothing, or I didn't understand. Well, let's just say I didn't understand, but then I understood to the gentlemen at the previous session, who were so harshly critical of Mr. Raguž's program, because they knew what was coming, and what was coming is really much better. This is really much better, much more operationalized, and now I understand what's on TV when it's said for what haste, for the prosperity of gentlemen. You didn't know, because of BiH's prosperity, which you are laughing at, I honestly tell you, I expect that what I don't understand will be BiH's prosperity, because it is promised. So that's why I understand this, too, that it's quite enough that knowledge is the basis of everything. I just don't understand how respected experts, with all due respect, this is what I say from the field of electrical sciences goes into the vault and in the 21st century, gentlemen, the most important thing is to have a higher level of expertise because then you can go into civil affairs and it's called the prosperity that we gentlemen expect and which we will have here. It's entirely my fault, which is why gentlemen here are mentioned by nationalist parties. I'd like the distinguished gentleman of the academy to operate on the term nationalist, so maybe we agree that they're nationalist, and maybe we don't agree. I'm asking for it to be said here in public because I'm afraid it's ugly and shameful. It may be the same for the tito, but, gentlemen, don't, take the Hrvat take Klajic's dictionary and I'll take Vujaklijin and one member of the mockery of gentlemen, precisely write operationalized this term and please, don't let the main culprit for your failure in the future power you can form because you have most of us from the national parties, because it looks like we're guilty of being alive. For everything you don't know or can't, you're going to blame us, and I expect and I expected the SDP to be respectable, professional, and for that and for respecting their president, I think it would be good to stick to the same principle they've stuck to, talking about the Raguž program. That the same principles are held here today and that equally critical, they can and know, they speak about this program, because you gentlemen are then, and I have prepared for this session and a stenogram with that, if you happen to go the other way, I will begin to read to you what you said, because it will not be possible, take the same archaic of the same standards. If you think gentlemen here just vote, you can vote that, too, maybe that's a good thing. Apparently, many have come here and they knew in advance how to vote and without knowing what 22 says, and I didn't know what it says, and now I'm confused, I have to admit, about what I've heard, if that's how you stop this torture, vote and go to prosperity, and it's enough for the people to tell them the peoples are waiting for you happiness. That's lucky, Bog. I would truly like it to be so, but gentlemen, there's something that doesn't give me the right to do it. I've written the terms spoken by the distinguished professor and I don't want to read them, but they're recognizable to me, as I recall somewhere I heard them, so I thought this was called listening here today and trust me without irony, and I wrote to myself that this is a brief comparative analysis of the global state of economy in the last six months in economic journals with a shorter view to the state of education. I couldn't have otherwise, because I tried to capture in one sentence what I heard and so I gave it to myself, but what I particularly minded, it bothers me that nowhere Mr. Professor is not said that you will at least be so precise and so clearly adhered to the Dayton and Constitutional categories in the areas of the economy here in BiH. That's why I'm asking those brothers from the RS, they're up there. How will you brothers in Banja Luka, if you don't answer this question that I asked? Because, gentlemen, we're tired of breaking the Constitution, the Dayton Agreement, because we want it to be carried out consistently. We want it to become the basis of life and co-existence in these areas. If it could have been different, then what had to be would have been accepted as the starting basis for a better tomorrow for all of us. Next, please, Mr. Grabovac, he pulled four factors somewhere. I'm close to one and I'm saying the most important factor is the business climate. So I'm saying to myself, if it has to do with the geographical climate, it's gonna be hot, because I think there's a lot of problems, that I haven't seen or heard or heard anything here, or felt, so I realized that the program isn't important, because it would be good if these two programs under the code, this one today and the one in the previous session were coded and directed to economic experts to evaluate it, and I'd like to see that grade just because I'm not an economic expert, and I'd like to read the review. I'd like to read that grade, because I'd only understand this part of what Mr. Lagumdžija said, and it's enough for me to understand that, because he says who understands education, the state of education is a reflection of the situation in Mr. Lagumdžija's society, that's what your ideologist Lenjin said, that's what I know when he was mine. Please, and in the end, I'm asking you to take this seriously. It's a serious moment. If you vote today, take responsibility, but don't call on us to be guilty just because we're here, please don't as a god, we'll remember and I told you in advance don't. And since last time it was said that we from the SDS were obstructed by not voting. So don't people, we won't obstruct you, we'll refrain from voting, so it'll be easier for you and for everyone to make us happy, with God's help, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3454	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. It is good that the geographical climate is not an idea, a leader in this House, please welcome Mr. Lužanski.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3455	You didn't even hear me, Mr. Chairman, when I asked for 15 minutes off, but well, it doesn't matter, and I'm going to write it down as a violation of the 23rd Rules of Procedure. Obviously, in a hurry that has been mentioned here on several occasions today, everything is allowed. It is permitted not to deliver in written form materials, it is permitted to violate the Rules of Procedure, it is permitted to violate the Constitution, it is allowed, therefore, to all. So it's the rush that's been happening today in this session. Mr. Matić, I believe that you are an extremely brave person when you dared to accept such a difficult job in such a complex state community as BiH, and if you pass through today, I congratulate you with my heart. But I just want to look back with one sentence on your statement on TV that I saw a few days ago on OBN, when you said what you would do if you didn't pass, you said, "I thought I was going to Dubrovnik." Unfortunately, Professor, most of us here have nowhere to go, nor do we have spare lands, nor do we have a spare house, nor do we have a spare bed, nor anything else spare. So if you don't pass, you'll leave us here to continue to deal with these problems that we're struggling with. I will continue with the thought mentioned by my colleague Titan, and if I say, he was expressing his position, not the Club's position, I will state the position of the Club, that democracy is the terror of the majority over the minority, which is shown thank Bog hands up, the voting machine is going, doing its job, and if I am in the opening part around the agenda point, he has warned also of breaking the Poslvonik Constitution, of course in that great hurry to move forward in brighter and better BiH's future, that everything is allowed. In the past session, gentlemen, you took a big step in introducing BiH into a civil, democratic state, of course, you did not take care that in this way you denied the will of one of the equal, sovereign and constitutive peoples in BiH, who in the net elections gave support to certain political parties that have the right and the power to represent it in this parliament. In such a complex state as BiH, ignore that when a nation is left without the Constitution guaranteed rights, that the other two nations will have no luck in such a country, let it be an honor to all those who have challenged Mr. Raguž's candidacy, as a man who certainly has shown in the past time to know, can and will do the job. I wonder where equality is, if two members of the BiH presidency and if this parliament, mostly Bosniak and most Serb votes, do not give confidence to one who is run by the Croatian people and who is entitled to it, will give support to someone who does not have 10% of the support of the Croatian electoral body. I wonder what the next steps the Bureau will take, which the next steps this high house will take, but I can tell one group of RS deputies that I will sincerely look forward to one of the next sessions when we discuss RS status. Mr. Matić, you said that the political will of the nationalists was like this and brought this country into this position as it is. I will here publicly in front of all of you and you, Mr Matić and the representatives and representatives of the international community and the media, and I will say that I am a nationalist, I am a nationalist, Mr Matić, in that I am protecting, defending the rights and interests of the Croatian people, whose Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the Constitution of BiH has been guaranteed and as such I cannot allow even a breach of the Constitution to be allowed, and above all, the elimination of those rights guaranteed by one of the three equal peoples in BiH. You may also be analytical, perhaps even national, that you are not national for sure that you would not be a candidate of the Croatian people today and 24 if, as I said, you did not have the support of one of the three constituent peoples in BiH. The Hrvat certainly won't disappear from BiH, but all those who think differently and who want the Hrvat to disappear as political peoples from BiH and thus give support to the project, I think they will be badly deceived, because there is enough power within the Croatian Corps to protect our rights, our ynerese and, of course, do not deny those other rights of the two constituent peoples in BiH, Bošnjak, Srbin and other citizens in BiH. Finally, as legally and legitimately elected representatives of the Croatian people, I speak, therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club as winners in the previous elections, we are leaving today's session for breaking the Rules of Procedure, for violating the Constitution, because of the very atmosphere that is ruling here, we wish you many successes in working, so we leave as winners and return as winners.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3456	I would like to thank my representative, lužanski. I ask you to be patient that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is doing its part of the work, there is no imposition of any usurpation of the business provisions, the break has been sought in order to obtain the possible printing of the programme presented by the candidate of the chairman at today's session, however, this is not provided for by the Rules of Procedure or by Article 115. In that sense, it is not necessarily necessary to pause on this matter, and the break can be obtained of course, I am asking you to intervene business Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3457	Honorable MPs, gentlemen, I will not leave today's session until I speak my views, until I warn all of you and look you in the eye and tell you what you can expect from me. I want to be clean to my voters, to the citizens, to those who chose me, who voted. The OSS did one good thing. He made election units, so I know almost every voter, every voter, and I can basically identify them and define them both by national and territorial membership. So I didn't answer for it now. I have now come forward for one other thing, to ask the honourable representative of Mr Ivo andrića-Lužanski-Lužanski or to renew all requests for a break or to withdraw his request for a break, and as a member of the College, I find it correct to say and read Article 62. Rules of Procedure. Any Club of Representatives, has the right to request a break for up to 30 minutes, for each relevant item of the agenda. Whether or not this is the right point. I'm telling him to take it back, because I don't need it. I'd be happier if we'd gotten a written text so I could look back on a few allegations, because I think this Council of Ministers isn't as nationalist as they say, but on that point, I'll do it in my discussion. So, Your Honor, either request a break or withdraw your request so that we may be manifested.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3458	The intervention, too, is represented by Lužanski. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3459	Mr. President, in truth, you have a great chance of entering the Ginis Book of Records after breaking the Rules of Procedure, and I am withdrawing my request for a break, and we are leaving this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3460	Thank you, Agent lužanski. Let's move on, Mr. Đedović asked for a word. I'm sorry, we're going in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3461	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, dear guests, gentlemen of the press, I'd like to protest the way we say it, because individuals have spoken twice and I haven't spoken once. I raised my hand first. Secondly, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that my signature is one of the signatures of the resolution, that you did not find it appropriate to talk, parallel to that, you found it appropriate to talk to those who do not have MPs in this House and for the constitution of the Council of Ministers, I do not think that this is correct or is in line with the charter you are propagating in front of the Alliance, I remind you of point 3. Anyway, I want to say that I'm glad that I first listened to words that are mostly based on work, on economy, on employment, on what I think we all need to go back to. If we go back to it, I believe we're going to have a lot less problems, these species that we have now. In particular, I would like to ask, you have systematically presented a number of concrete indicators, how many unemployed are, what is the percentage of primary education education, in secondary education, how many mobiles, computers, etc. I'm interested as a man, and I didn't hear those indicators, maybe I didn't understand, maybe I didn't hear about the crowd, what kind of indicators would they be at the end of your term? Based on these indicators, I mean, I support it or not. So, how many unemployed we're going to have, how many people are going to go to high school, based on colleges, how many people are going to get water, I remind you that we have a significant share of BiH residents that they don't have water and order. Based on these indicators, we'll be able to say in half a year or a year's time, this goes in the end or this doesn't go in the end. I believe that it exists in those papers that you have mentioned, I believe in your knowledge and reputation, reputation and expertise, and despite these remarks that I have made so far, I would like to say that as an MP, in front of the Democratic People's Community, regardless of the continued impropriety of the Alliance's leaders towards us, I will vote for change, I will vote for change to raise hope for the possibility of life in BiH, not for the Alijansa, I will vote for hope that my child can also live in a better, more reasonable and normal society, and I think that the dictionary offered leads in that direction. I'm thanking you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3462	I thank Ambassador Đedović. An MP named Stokić came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3463	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honored guests, I would like to make a statement. In fact, since it is a very important problem, I think it is unacceptable for MPs before this session, at least the day has not delivered Mr Matić's programme, so that we can read in peace and think about it and that we may have some comments stored here. I also think that these consultations that were carried out with political parties were not properly done, this is from this example by Mr. Đedović, who states that he supported the Alliance candidate by his signature, that no one found him properly nor to ask him, nor to consult him at all, even if the order is only working. In addition, I would like to express one reserve, namely, the Party of the Democratic Progress of the Republic of Slovenia, when I am an MP here, has reached several conclusions, which were insisted on being incorporated into Mr Matić's programme, which is a condition for the programme to be supported. Mr Matić, in the political part of his programme at the beginning of most of our demands or more in principle, has introduced, however, one of the important things that is, in my opinion, crucial and true. The Council of Ministers will not make proposals or accept initiatives to assume competence from entities beyond the envisaged constitutional procedure, i.e. without the consent of entities. In this respect, it will consistently respect the established division of competences between the entities and the institutions of BiH, that is, Article 3, points 1, 2, 3 and 4. The BiH Constitution. PDP MPs, as well as SNS, the SPRS, and I hope the DSP will insist that this political principle be incorporated into the political part of this programme, it is raw to vote for Mr Matić's programme. That's a condition. I mean, it's a very important thing, besides, I have a general grudge that no mention of the BiH Constitution is made anywhere in that political part of the programme. This should be emphasized, at least once, that there will be, at the beginning, but that it will consistently advocate respect for the BiH Constitution, and what I have stated this principle is only a member of the 3rd constitution. Therefore, I want Mr Matić to declare whether it will be entered into his programme and under these conditions the MPs of these parties I have listed will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3464	I thank Ambassador Stokić. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3465	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, distinguished Mr. Matić, I really have no objection when it comes to the economic categories spoken of by Mr. Matić, and there he is an expert and I accept those attitudes that speak about economic categories, which he has presented here, and I think it would be very good for BiH, that those categories and those relations that he has brought to life here in BiH. That's why I'd be all over it. However, I have some dilemmas and some questions, which I have no answers to, so I'm a little afraid of, and that's why I'm going to ask a number of questions. The answers to those questions will probably be some kind of sign to me, how I will raise my hand, when I vote whether to accept or not the prime minister. Namely, I cannot accept the assessment of the distinguished professor, when he says the nationalist parties in Bosnia ruled Bosnia until today. I think the esteemed rposor must know, he knows, what he won't say is another question and that he distinguishes the political nuances in Bosnia, which are so obvious and so obvious. The Party of Democratic Action, from which I come, has never been nationalist. She was a party, which was gathering all the patriots of BiH, so she gave a chance to all other people who were politically different from maybe the SDA, maybe to me, and Mr. SDP was also in the government of BiH, when she asked the SDA, who gave him confidence to be the vice president of the government, who set Turajlić as Turajlić minister, when he was a member of another party and we never thought in the U.S. that it was a political downfall for us to gather all BiH patriots. I doubt those people would accept working in the nationalist government, and I don't think Zlatko Lagumdžija would want to work in the nationalist government, and we never were. Because we were the force, which defended Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens and if it hadn't been for that political force, we wouldn't be sitting in the BiH Parliament today and not talking about the future of this country, because we probably wouldn't be there. Because of that, I think a respected academic, a respected professor of that relationship should know and say it publicly. Unfortunately, he said here very clearly that everyone in BiH and those who defended her are also those who destroyed her nationalist parties and that they are the same. They're not the same. That's the basic thing. The other thing, also important to me, is very important and very important when it comes to the program and the adoption of the prime minister and this government, for me, that Mr. Matić, or the Alliance, which, as we saw earlier, is a bit of a shoot, how does he think what he's bringing out here on the ground? I didn't hear how to do that. The SDA has been trying to ensure that all its peoples and all its citizens have the same rights in all of BiH's territory. Unfortunately, we didn't combine. That's why it's so much to me, maybe this is a dangerous thing to say, but I'm going to say, guilty and international community. If the international community wanted to provide the same rights to the citizens of BiH, it would not have happened yesterday to Višegrad, which no one here has talked about today, because we simply have to look the truth into the eyes. Political leaders are diametrically opposite and how Mr. Matić, as the Alliance thinks, God Bog and to do so, I would welcome it, but as he thinks, I'm not told here that he thinks he has this political will in Visegrad, or that he has in Gruds. I don't know, I didn't hear that. Here you have it in Sarajevo, you will have it in Tešnja, you will have it wherever you want, however you will, how you will establish it. I ask that question. When I get an answer to that, I'll decide how to raise my hand. I'm glad if you know, then tell me how you're gonna do it so I don't have a dilemma. That's another very important question for me, a matter of political will and a third thing that I want to say here, and I'm going to end up with, I'm a little afraid of style and a way of access to democratic conditions, if we're making a democratic environment, that still the prime minister didn't want to listen to the parties, he could say with a very clear attitude, we're not going to go to power with these people, but I want to talk to you. The layoff of the talks, the absence of dialogue with the parties, which so far took part in the 28 authorities, is my side, God Bog I'm wrong, that we're not going to some new tolitarianism, which I'm very afraid of and who I was afraid of and who I was against in that time of 50 years and that's why, and that's the question that keeps me raising my hand when it comes to the Alliance. I'm afraid of that. Bosnia is a country of compromise, it must be. Bosnia must be a country, where no politician must ever forget one fundamental value, must forget that it is a country of the people of birth and must not be released from the sight of national freedoms and national rights and civil rights, because if one or the other rules out, then it works directly against Bosnia, but, meaning national and civil rights and freedoms, it is necessary to know and wish to unite in this Bosnia. When you tell me how, then I'll decide how I vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3466	I thank Ambassador Osman Brk. Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3467	Mr. Chairman, deputies, distinguished coelge MPs, same fellow ministers and deputies, distinguished guests. At first, I must really say that I would not forget the words of the distinguished professor when he said the Nationalist Council or the Council of Ministers. I belong to the civil option, which is the Socialist Party of the Republic of Slovenia and cannot accept such a qualification, which is indeed common with the SDP and is not selectively applied to people and to the party. Of course, as a man, I also advocate the civil option, but the national issue, which should be resolved correctly and when I speak, I think that is what I am saying, that in the previous Yugoslavia, the national issue could not be solved either Tito or Kardelj, and I do not think that today in a strange society of the Alliance, the respected Mr Lagumdžija or, say, Haris Silajdžić. But I'd like something now about the program. The programme did not give a basic answer in how to solve problems, except for general political promises and it is quite clear, the findings of the partnership, nowhere is it said that we will, whether we will be responsible etc. When we were on the agenda, when I was also proposed by the Presidency for the Chairman, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, then Mr Lagumdžija, Sejfudin Tokić and others asked for the programme, of course, I delivered it in time to three versions, which Mr Banjac said he might not have understood, I delivered in three versions, then it was requested, today it is so easy to go through. I'm only talking about vocal standards, principles, people who advocate principles. They can't be principled yesterday and today they forget it, it's generally for each of us. It's a matter of responsibility, a matter of failure. For which we have not imported here, which is not the question of the responsibility of the international community, or whether you are now at the beginning, you accept responsibility for yourself as well as the previous government, which is the conclusion that local politicians are always responsible for it. Share the gentlemen's responsibility and it is most correct in this specific country called Bosnia and Herzegovina, which rests on a compromise and in which 29 international communities have a big and essential issue. When I am who I am, as an MP, I want to make a public statement and make a commitment, that we, in the legislative section, need to make laws. We should take fate into our own hands. We respect the assistance of the international community, but I'm not about to impose laws. We must take fate into our own hands and work for the benefit of the institutions and citizens of this country. I don't think a... a relationship and I haven't heard a partnership will take us far. You didn't give an answer, how do you mean to pass laws, how to respect the Constitution, the jurisdiction, the prescribed procedure, easily perhaps easily respond and say now, that is understood, but for what you are now a joint PDP club, it is already said, said Dr. Stokić or PDP at every conference says the Alijansa can't give Bjanko confidence. What did you create a climate of mistrust for change, according to the Alijansa? Where did this project come from? Because what we heard in the program is both the political promise and the objectives of practically SDP. In this way, you did not give a precise answer and doubts are fully justified, what you want to do tomorrow in the new Council of Ministers. Will there be a consensus? Will there be a rerouting of jurisdiction from the Ministry's mine ministry? What will be the changes and additions to the Council of Ministers? How will all this come about, then, from the subsequent application of the law? You haven't even given the simplest answer, how do you plan to work, how to coordinate, how to go generals, cantons, entities in BiH? In addition to seeing clearly something else, which is your goal, that from Sarajevo, in a bureaucratic centralised way, we've seen it a long time ago, and I'm glad to find out that Honorable Professor Matić when he says centralization is one of the evils we've had, and whether that evil can come again and whether it's evil when it's carried out by the Alliance, then it's a democratic principle. We can't have double standards here either, because otherwise you're going to cause institutional chaos, and that kind of responsibility is first difficult to take on, as much as you are at this point being brought to the satisfaction of the government. The Alliance is a very strange society. He must have made that perfectly clear to his citizens. There are monarchists, there are fundamentalists, there are civil parties, etc. There's a society where individuals are proposed, where there are criminal charges, and you've talked so much about the independence of the judicial authorities. You're giving them gentlemen from the Alliance of Immunity today. For the same people you're going to propose today in the Council of Ministers. Where's the morale, where's the honesty? Where are the principles we all stand for together? What kind of political relations are in one country, is that, gentlemen, the right of a country is also known. How to secure political will? How to ensure this coherence and harmony in BiH? Do you make enemies? It's me. If someone in this country has said that parties that have met certain conditions can go to an election campaign with their own staff and if these parties have gained confidence, who is now in a position to deny and say that they are not, except that somewhere on a level simply someone wants to cross. If those are the grades I've heard of nationalists, as you say to the parties. Then, together with the international community, you should have had the strength, if that's what you say, then it should have been banned, and not today when it's all gone, we're in a new situation, where we deny the will of the voters. I don't support the Nazi parties, I mean right now. But as a lawyer and as a Democrats and as a man who has studied a hundred political constitutional systems, I must say that, not because of the daily policy, which makes me say that to whom it suits. You, Professor Matić, have made it clear to the public that you will not accept the mandate unless the international community provides you with financial resources. You were in your program today talking about the desire, the hopes of a billion dollars, then four million like this, and the sixth on the other side. 30 I'm also talking about principles. If you're a principled man, then you should have given an explanation today, which no one in the international community has promised you that help, and I am responsiblely telling you that the donations of the international community will be nothing. This country can only get loans and nothing else and that's the reality we have to tell our citizens. That's why it would be good, if we're already saying that we speak clearly and precisely, what the programme is about to produce and what it will bring and what you will tell the citizens clearly after two years, this is ours, we are successful or we are unsuccessful politicians. This is what I was saying, of course, well-intentioned, because in this polarisation of the relations we have in BiH, we have now seen the behaviour of the HDZ that has left. We must secure, take fate in our rejuvenations all together and do not play the winner or the defeated. If you do that, then you can't make a civil society that I as a man and my party stand for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3468	I thank Ambassador Gligorić. Who's still answering for the word? Sir, Ambassador Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3469	Dear members of the Presidency, chairing, Members of Parliament, dear guests, Club of Members of the SDA listened carefully to Mr Matić's programme today. We're sorry we didn't have half an hour to further consult, so we can say something more about this program, but here's how it is. The SDA MPs' club appreciates that the government of Mr Božidar Matić cannot succeed. We in the U.S.A. are clear. We want to say it here loud and clear, that the people also know how to make these countries. I will state at least two reasons for this claim. Mr Božidar Matić has close support in this House. So, in public and in the public. The government of Božidar Matić is not democratic. It has not a democratic character, because SDA representative Mr Matić has not shown a minimum political will, but he is talking to the strongest political party in parliament, at least by the number of votes. The only way to prove this claim is to prove it. that the government of Božidar Matić cannot succeed is still to give her a chance. The SDA MPs' club will give the opportunity to refrain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3470	I thank Ambassador Borić, Ambassador Tokiš.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3471	The defiled Presidency, defiled to Parliament, Mr. Matić, I am amazed by those of some of my colleagues who tell you to be respected, because you as an academic by the title of Prof. Dr. You have honored a complete one nation, honored the SDS, six of us here MPs, valued 50% of our voters, and I can say two-thirds of the voters from the Serb people, because those who joined you in the Alliance, they have firmly promised their voters that they will never have one such artificial creation and those who have claimed that they only want BiH without 31 entities, today they do not know what reason they joined you, but here and how you think as the future chairman of the Council of Ministers or chairing to stabilise this BiH. How come no one from your party is reacting today, to me one key moment at least to ask representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, gentlemen, is there anything else we can do that we are still not making a precedent, but it is clear to us, because you learned from this precedent long ago that the first and for you at this point absolutely, it is not important that the SDS makes up most of the Parliament of the RS, that if you want prosperity in BiH, you have to cooperate with both entities, with both governments and didn't have so much academic, that at least the six of us that you never met, we don't eat people, at least I think that you sit with us and ask what you think, you six MPs, if you didn't want our distinguished presidents, president of the Republic, vice president of Republika Srpska, that at least you're some factor in this BiH, which if you didn't want anything under the skirt with my boss, you't ever tell us. You're still a professor, he's a student, you must know one level there. How do you expect us, as parliamentarians today, to ever give you support when you haven't found anything to match or ask us to say hello, or show at least a little will to respect those behind you, I repeat 50% of the Serbian electoral body and 40% of the RS's total electoral body. In that sense, I think you're doomed before the start. How do you think better co-workers in the Council of Ministers will be those who have not received trust in the RS than those who, after five elections, raise absolute support for voters in RS. You're, like your party chief, a professor who knows very well that two plus times two six, but many of those first-generation computers throw out that it's number eight. Put these two plus, times two, it's going to be eight, and now you're making that right there, that's where you're making a mistake. Whether two and two in the Federation times two or not, and how do you count that through this mathematical formula, you kind of draw these naive ones and show everyone that you know math better, and there's only one and it's applied in BiH that two plus two times two six, or that three equal nations must be respected, and my gentlemen, you can't say from the Alliance and two equal entities. So I don't think it's too late for us to try to compromise, we all talk about it here today, and there must be compromise in this House. That Bogdo was also in '91. and '92. It would be much better for all of us in our peoples that we represent and all the citizens of BiH. Again, we stick our heads in the sand and still my esteemed colleague from the U.S.A., there's no need to replicate, but the question in Visegrad, we'll probably light up from all angles, wait for everyone to say their own, maybe if there was a rule of law, that these guys would be detained and they should be held back, but we've made a compromise again, because many of them have been held in one ord of mockery so I don't tell the prisons but the tapes on our side, but these are questions, let's leave it to the judiciary to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3472	I thank Ambassador Tošić. Parliamentarian Malkić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3473	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidency, the honored guests, I will say a few words about the mandater's program, or I will present a few facts, because they are not clear to me. I didn't get 32 answers to those questions, which seems to me to be rather determined by BiH. I did not get an answer in the programme to the essence of BiH's political environment in this area. How the Council of Ministers' mandate means to conjecture Bosnia, respecting the environment most closely, I mean Croatia and Yugoslavia. Then, in what contexts it is seen in the area of the region's ropes and within Europe. I did not, either, or perhaps there was an answer in the progama, or a question of legislation, which gives character, i.e. the traits of a legally regulated BiH state. The fact that we still lack a lot. I did not get an answer as to how he meant to regulate the functioning of the authorities, institutions of the BiH state, not some common body. There was absolutely no answer to the question of return. The BiH state must be a leader in realisation, which is a priority of return, not some co-ordinator, but I have not heard the answer that it is, that it will appear as a co-ordinator in the direction of realising its return. I didn't even get an answer to the question of respecting international agreements and conventions, which the signator, on the right hand side, accepted by BiH and, above all, the arrests, extradition of war criminals. How she thinks at the state level to regulate it. We've passed some kind of law if it's not absolutely operational. That's what nobody respects. How to establish coordination with entities, which, co-ordination that will be operationalised, will yield results. I can understand, i.e. I would like it to be so, if it is a conscious transition in BiH's interest, i.e. to deceive those who vote for the programme, which will be in the direction of improvement in BiH, but I am afraid that if it is not the result of previous agreements, within the alliance and those who will support BiH that we will accept something, and the question of how we will implement it later, or whether we will work on it. I must say once again, here's another one, and my club president didn't do it either, or my club president, you haven't consulted, you're not with us either, probably because we're leper or infected, so you can't get into our environment. I'm saying that conversations are necessary. We consider ourselves, also normal people. I work in an environment in Srebrenica, where I talk to everything, no matter what happens and how it happens in the immediate past. I'd like you to, if there's any possibility of giving answers to these questions and we know what we're going to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3474	I thank Ambassador Malkić. I think the discussion is exhausted. Is anyone else answering for a word? Can we also close this debate on the presentation and the opening remarks, namely the programme of the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, the candidate who came to us by the predsjendištvo as a decision, we give the possibility that Dr. Matić delivers his opinions and answers to the questions and objections raised from his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3475	Thank you very much. It's hard for me to answer what's in my mouth and I didn't say. It'd be easy for me to answer to the one where there's some arguments. Mr. Grabovac first spoke. He says this program owes the country. Apparently, he didn't move in his economic vision after 1980. Once upon a time, this country developed through loans. And I'm talking about foreign direct investment, that 33 is not borrowing. A stranger comes here buys land, buys bricks, builds a hall, buys machines and owns his own factory, and hires our world, and nothing in the country owes him. So it's not borrowing. Looks like the gentleman needs to take the lexcon to see what it is... and that's why I don't have anything to say to him. He's not here either. Secondly, Mr. Banjac didn't understand my language. I totally understand that. The language I spoke is neither Serbian nor Bosnian but is the language of the new economy, which puts the competitive ability first, because only as a competitive ability can survive. That language was developed in the world's economic forum, and the rest of me talking about the language is not going to, if anyone doesn't like my language, get a translator. Next, Mr. lužanski commended me for being brave, and I hope I won't get hurt for my courage, and regarding that grudge for Dubrovnik, I apologize to everyone, at OBN, they asked me, what if the Alliance doesn't manage to collect most of it, so this doesn't happen. I forgot that the whole of BiH is looking at it, I thought the Sarajlije were looking at it, because in Sarajevo there's a very well known an anecdote, which, I thought everyone knew, was wrong there, obviously Mr lužanski can't know because he's not Sarajlija. Namely, the anecdote reads like this. The husband and wife of the elderly, hand in hand go to tit and talk to each other, and then the husband says to the woman, "You know when one of us dies, I'll move to Dubrovnik," I mean a very black joke, when one of us is going to Dubrovnik, and I'm going to go to Dubrovnik and when he asks me, what if the Alliance fails, I say I go to Dubrovnik. There was, therefore, no question, the precedence did not know, and I apologize to Mr. lužanski for creating conditions for him to take me wrong. Furthermore, several parties resented not having talked to them. I have to tell you that, my personal taste would be to talk to everyone, but the Alliance was already formed when she asked me to do this for them and the Alliance told me, these are the ones that make up power, talk to them and arrange for ministers and deputies, these will be participating in power and I really couldn't talk to everyone from Thursday to Thursday. Otherwise, I don't consider anyone infected or worthy of conversation. I think every person here is worth a lot more than they generally think. For me, party membership is not a veto to talk to someone, but I've had this assignment from the Alliance, I apologize, if anyone thought it was my own not being raised. Furthermore, the question is often asked, what will be the indicators at the end of the mandate, from all the great stories that have been. Once again, only one indicator returns, if BiH, today 59, is in a position of competitive ability globally, if we move two places up, we've done something. This will mean more investment in BiH, which does not owe BiH. The other day I was informed that an American state, which has been on those ranking lists for years, had jumped for, say, two places from 39 to 37, that the President of the Republic has set a two-day national holiday. So, just one indicator, it's BiH's competitive ability to attract foreign direct investment because there's no other money. Credits can't be taken, because we're over-indebted, that's what I said, and nobody's gonna give us that kind of money that opens jobs, and since the central problem of this country is 450,000 unemployed, maybe it's a little smaller, 34 maybe for 50 grand because something's working on black, etc., but it's such huge money, and nothing without money can be solved. So, this government will measure, if it had $200 million of foreign direct investment, and it went away with 300 she succeeded. And I'd like it to be billions. You know, Malaysia has two billion dollars a month, not a section, 32 a year, it's a bad split, it's almost 3 - 2.8 a month. Next, Mr. Stokić resents me for not mentioning Dejton. The right to tell you, I'm sick of it, not because of it, but because of the use of that Dayton, there's a bar called Dejton. But, please, an integral sentence is that the Council of Ministers will, in its term of office, even an expression of advice and not a council, the Council of Ministers will fully respect the internal structure of BiH, which is defined by the Constitution of BiH. By speaking to the Dayton Constitution, by a constitution brought to Dayton, signed in Paris, etc. Exactly, Mr. Stokić stands, and what you're asking us not to make proposals or to accept initiatives, to take jurisdiction from entities beyond the constitutional procedure, or without the consent of the entity, it's a surplus, because I said we would work in accordance with the Constitution, which I will repeat, but if you didn't understand what you're saying, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, then that's what you're saying. Furthermore, the question of national, nationalist, I have one look at it. When a party in front of all the goals and even in front of the people sets it national, I call it nationalistic. You saw how many months it was, so they had to put the plates on us. How many months have passed – what color is the passport and what it will say, etc. I think we have the most expensive passport in the world, when it would count what it cost to print, what it cost to pay for the journals when they discussed it, and that's why I used that term. The moment it becomes the existential problems of the people, problem number one to a party, then it can be national, because it's colored, so let's say the national parties that can pass that criterion, and please know right away I don't put an equal sign in front of all parties. There is a significant difference between those who call themselves national parties. Next, Mr. Gligorić, I didn't say the Nationalist Council of the Minsitors, I said, I was talking about the parties, you can see when you get a stenogram, so I won't hold on to it. On the international community's responsibility, it is directly, please listen, this is the last sentence, with the international community we will cooperate sincerely in the spirit of the powers and responsibilities given to them. So, the powers and responsibilities of the merger and we will be against irresponsible behavior, which we witnessed very recently and which led to almost a constitutional crisis here. Furthermore, the question that I think in a centralised way is to lead, gentlemen, I have said cooperation with entities and with all levels of government. It means both with municipalities and with cantons, etc. Because I've advocated the comprehensiveness of the programme, because I can't get separate programs at individual levels of government and my personal position, and now I'm repeating decentralisation is a civilizational trend and it's only supposed to be centered on what's rational and what really needs to be the issue of the donor conference. We've been promised a donor conference. Unfortunately, due to this strained process of taking over this power after the elections, how the day goes by will be getting smaller and smaller. They have signs of May, but if it had been held in April, the amount would have been higher. Every day we lose, we lose the results of that donor conference. 35 The truth is, what Mr. Borić says will be tight support, it is a matter of the Alliance, which she has organized. I'm in the function of fulfilling the Alliance's tasks. I didn't even participate in the election. I'm too much in public life and I thought I'd back down. But the SDP comrades do this and I will do it honestly with all the strength I have, but with good intentions. I have no intention of dropping the tajprincip to add to the good intentions with every intention. As for the fact that I did not refer to relations with the Croatian Yugoslavia etc., I must tell you that I am primarily interested in these relations as an environment. How much we'll sell and how much we'll do. We can do what is said in the colloquial speech “watch out and pet someone”, but if he does not buy, his beautiful house. It's not an authorisation, but I say more as an illustration. A country that does not import from BiH would not have an embassy of BiH, I tell you, that would be my principle. Next, I think I've answered the lead. Let me be excused by those where I didn't catch them, etc. I'll work in good faith for BiH, that's the last thing I'll say.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3476	We thank the candidate for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who has answered the necessary questions and simply the opposite versions resulting from the presentation of the chairman. I ask you, I would like to highlight a few notes, which is, we have been working all this time to respect the democratic procedure and respect the Rules of Procedure of this highest House of the Legislative Authorities in BiH. In that sense, I am certainly sorry personally that HDZ has left today's session. I believe it will be just for today and will return to the institutions of the system and achieve the political will, simply the citizens who have chosen, that we are aware of one fact that this is a House of Representatives and that it is objectively chosen in a direct secret vote, through open lists and that it is a House of Representatives. This is not the House of Peoples, and it certainly needs to be respected, and that fact is necessary and necessary. I would also like to say that in this country, national and civil, they are not opposed, nor are they civilally opposed. In this sense, it is necessary to resolve these dilemmas and remove these doubts that they are suddenly able to come out and in discussions or uniformly political autonomy, economic globalisation, there is no other way than economic globalisation, in that sense I am certain, once again, that I believe that the College, in full of such a political attitude. We will defend the rise of this house and we will do everything possible to ensure that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a democratic pendant of decisions of the international community, be assured of that. So only on the principles of mutual agreement, respect for the dignity of this home, simply as partners and as judges in the realisation of the Dayton Agreement can we realise the most important tasks and tasks arising from such a single agreement and be assured that the College will protect and I believe you who are sitting in parliamentary benches. In that sense, I'm sure this program was presented by Dr. Matić is not optimistic without cover, it makes sense to believe that it can be achieved in BiH and that it will still be on the well-being of both BiH citizens and peoples. I invite you, after these presentations, after these answers by Mr. Matič, to make a statement on the approval of the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. 36 Who is to approve the appointment? There are 35 MPs in the O.R. Who's against it? - One, two, three. - Three against. Who's the abstention? Thank you. We're going to an entity vote. Who's in, from the RS area? Thank you. Who's in favour of the Federation of BiH? A total of 35 MPs are present. The vote was 22 – 10 MPs were abstentioned against it. By entities. There were 6 MPs from the RS and 16 MPs from the Federation of BiH, and in this sense we can point out that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as the Presidency decided, was approved by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I congratulate him on that. Thank you. I think we can have so much patience to realize point 1.b and invite Mr. Matić to introduce us to the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] Ad.1.b)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3477	Thank you very much for your confidence, which you showed in the confirmation. Mr. President has been prepared, a collection of candidates' résumés. Is that divided? If you do, you'll get the program.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3478	We can, the biographies are ready, if we can, if there's no need to move on. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3479	I'll read in order how my list was made. Trezor, Minister Božidar Matić – SDP zamjenik, Muharem Imamović – SDP and Gordana Ković DSP from RS European Integration – Dragan Mikerević PDP – Rasim Kadić LDS, Zora Marijanović SDP Refugees and Human Rights Minister – Krešimir Zubak NHI – Deputys Kadri, Mrs Haračić-Šabić-Sabiæ from BPS and Vladičić from SNSD Foreign Trade Azra Hadžiahmetović – SbiH Jadranko Prlić – NHI Nikola Kragulj SNSD 37 civolan Affairs and Communications – Svetozar Mihajlović – SNS Jusuf Halilagić – SBiH Milan Lovrić – SDP Foreign Affairs – Zlatko Lagumdžija – SDP Ivica Mišić – HSS Milovan Blagojević – PDP All the rubrics are filled and the monuments of all the countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3480	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Is there any discussion on this proposal? Here you go, Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3481	Dear gentlemen, don't be nervous, you'll end it, so I don't know what the comments are about, then the president of the club from your party, have patience, I guess we can ask. You're too nervous. You must want to do this. Please, I want to know what the professions of ministers are, prepared by the ministers and told us what in your proposal, Mr Matić has those ministers who are in the former RS government about the characterised and suspected of criminal activities, that's what I'm asking the PDP. PDP MPs, because you've been saying something, something your PDP president often comes out and says he's inherited chaos and has indications of criminal activities and now I see there are ministers here, who are in this, in this council of ministers and will obviously be supported by the PDP. Furthermore, you PDP gentlemen, from the RS of the SNS, and I don't know which other party has probably a small one until I forget. So you're voting for the Council of Ministers who quite precisely invalidates constitutionally-rightly with special links and with the Republic of Croatia and the SRJ, which is precisely said behind this pay phone. You gentlemen from the RS, too, are depriving yourselves, because here, today, you are saying here and now that you will not give support to those who will not precisely be determined according to the read content of the Constitution, Mr Stokić, and you are setting yourself up without it, Mr Stokić, and I know now that the elected chairman of the Council of Ministers, because the man who took the wrong paper out of his pocket in that first presentation, because he first thanked himself for the election. Maybe that paper was supposed to come out of his pocket right now. And to say, I am now fully aware that I spoke well when I said that I would like it to be a man who has a more future than he has. I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. I suggest we take a half-hour break to share these biographies and just get ready to continue the session. Thank you. PAUSE 38 We have begun the realization of point 1.b). You've received a copy of the biography with this table. Under four mistakes were made, Krešimir Zubak refers to the refugee and human rights ministry and not to the candidate for foreign minister, it is relaxed in the table, the table presented Mr Matić's proposal in the right way, in that sense to remove that dilemma if it can simply be called on. I'm begging you, we've opened the debate. We're continuing the discussion. If these dilemmas were removed from the aspect of the biography you received and asked if Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers had any intervention. There isn't. Can we close the debate on point 1.b?? We can. Thank you. We can approach the statement on the election of the Council of Ministers. We vote in favour of the team proposed by the Council of Ministers, ministers and with two deputies each. You have a number of conditions 34 and in that contact to just approach. So, who is to adopt the proposal tabled by the chairman of the Council of Ministers by the House of Representatives and thus simply give consent. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There is no one against it. Who is the abstention? Transition entity vote. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS area, who's in? Meanwhile, one came in – 35. The results of the vote are the following In the first round of votes there are 35 – 22 MPs voted in favour. There was one MP against it and 12 MPs were abstentioned. By entities, of which one third at least from each area of each entity must be for. From the Federation of BiH, it was for 16 – from the RS area, both conditions were met for 6, and in this sense I declare that the composition of the Council of Ministers, which was proposed by six ministers and the other 12 deputies, was chosen and I simply congratulate them on behalf of the House of Representatives on the choice with a desire for fruitful work. All congratulations, traditions, it is common that the newly elected composition of the Council of Ministers, simply take an oath and I would ask you for a new composition, together with the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3483	I declare that I will knowingly perform my duties, which I am entrusted with. Respect the BiH Constitution. Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. I congratulate you once again. Good luck. 39 Does anyone in front of the new Council of Ministers want to take a word? Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3484	Just say thank you. We'll try not to make this oath a simple set of words, but to really be respected, so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3485	I, too, have a duty and obligation on behalf of the House of Representatives to thank the Council of Ministers for their work and for their efforts, especially in this time when it is simple and partly legal vacuum that they have functioned as a technical government, that they have done their part of the work for the benefit of BiH above all. Thank you again. Mr. Kurtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3486	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear new members of the Council of Ministers, in the absence of the current Council of Ministers chairman, who is officially busy, on behalf of his and on behalf of his fellow members from the old Council of Ministers, I congratulate you, I wish you a lot of success and believe that in some new time when he is re-appointed and confirms the extension of your mandate, we will then, with much more optimism and much better results, start than today. Anyway, I wish you a lot of success and good working atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-02-22-0.u3487	This 4th session of the House of Representatives is over. Thank you very much. The session is closed at 3 p.m.
