ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I warmly welcome you all, first of all, the envoys of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the warm greetings from the members of the Presidency, Križanović and Belkić, representatives of the international community, the funds of public information, the Council of Ministers, so thank you all for coming and I am opening the 3rd session of the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. From today's session, there are legitimately absent gentlemen: Sejfudin Tokić and Mr Niko Sušac. Today's session is attended by 13 envoys. Of which 4 of the Bosniak people 4 of the order of the Croatian people and 5 of the Serbian people. We, of course, have a quorum, we have a very likable number of 13 that means that we will get lucky and we will work well and I agree that we have the quorum to decide and that we can move on to the working part of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Now ladies and gentlemen, let me read you the proposed agenda, even if you all have it, it'll be a little tiring, but I'm obliged to read you that agenda and then get to the point. 1. Journal of the 2nd Session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 2. Proposal for a Law on the flag of BiH 3. Proposal for a Law on the coat of arms of BiH 4. Proposal for a Law on the BiH National Anthem 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH 6. Proposal for a Law on the Court of Justice of BiH 7. Proposal for a Law on the State Genetic Service of BiH 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act 9. Proposal for a law on administrative fees and tariffs for administrative fees 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Administrative Tax Act 11. Proposal for a Standardisation Act for BiH 12. Proposal for a BiH Measurement Law 2 13. Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Standards, Measurement, Intellectual Property of BiH 14. Proposal for a Law on Measurement Units of BiH 15. Proposal for a law on accreditation of BiH 16. Proposal for a Law establishing the BiH Accreditation Institute 17. Proposal for a Law on Property of the BiH Employment Institute 18. Development credit agreement, water supply and sewerage project for Mostar between BiH and the International Development Association 19. Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the granting of financial assistance from the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of Ministers of BiH 20. Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Finland 21. Agreement on promotion and protection of investments between BiH and Sweden 22. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on international road transport of persons and things 23. Framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH for the Tuzla Water Supply Project 24. BiH-European Investment Bank financing agreement No. 20515 Road project in BiH 25. Building Law Convention against Corruption 26. Criminal Convention Against Corruption 27. International Labour Organisation Convention No. 182 on the Worst Forms of Children's Work 28. In addition to the Convention on the Prohibition and Restriction of the Use of certain types of classical weapons which may be considered to be the cause of excessive traumatic effects or have a non-selective effect of 29. Resolution on Economic and Social Policy in BiH – Proposed by Envoy Mr Ibrahim Spahić 30. Resolution on Trust and Reconciliation in BiH – Proposer Ibrahim Spahić 31. Conclusion on the criteria for the employment of representatives of the People's House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly 32. Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 33. I suggest you leave out 34. Answers to the envoys' questions, envoys' questions and initiatives before moving to a statement on the agenda, I am obliged to inform you that points 2 to 17, therefore, of the laws declared by the High Representative. So those laws are, you know in function. To us, the Council of Ministers delivered them to us under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, this member regulates the urgency of the procedure, and here I think that the whole agenda is a business order and he is now offered to you gentlemen as an act that we will adopt and continue to do this 3rd session. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Novaković, President Kljub the order of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u124	I do not know if there are examples in parliamentary practice that the laws are passed 3 without the right to amendments, or that the motion does not allow Parliament to adopt its opinion on the laws to be adopted. There are probably no such examples and this is the only such example in the parliamentary practice of all democratic countries, and it is certainly the only one in BiH's parliamentary practice so far. For this reason, I consider the Club of delegates of the Serbian people, too, that the points of the regular number three, with a regular number of 17., cannot be put on the agenda for several reasons. First, because Article 100 said the chairman of which they are placed on the agenda does not allow for the agenda. In fact, it is clear to Article 100, when it presents a proposal for a high-level emergency law or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can only be adopted or rejected completely, the Proposer may ask the House to consider it in writing in a single reading. The request referred to in Article 100(1) shall be submitted directly to the House at its next session. The House shall decide on the request after the hearing. What are the reasons for the urgency of gentlemen, if these laws are in force and have been applied for a long time. Does that mean that they can't apply from now on, if they don't adopt, and I don't think that means, I don't, but it certainly doesn't. If that doesn't mean anything, then why are they urgent? When adopted by us or not adopted in the text in which it is proposed, I therefore do not see any reason for these laws to be in an emergency procedure. Secondly, another option or variant when an emergency procedure can be initiated is if they are formulated in a simple way that can be considered in a single reading. Gentlemen, there I have seen laws that are not only simple, or simple to consider in one reading, but are very complex and are assumed here simply that all of us, regardless of the level of expertise and education, can understand and adopt this law, or consider a reading proposal, that we do not need professional people, professional teams, professional advisors, etc. More than half, far more than half of those laws could not be passed without a firm opinion. Not to mention the Stateization Act, which is an extremely professional and very important law, and it does not, again I repeat there is no need to adopt it urgently, given that they are in use. I note, too, that the agenda was not adopted by consensus on the College, and that practice should not be present. The agenda should be adopted by consensus on the College. I suggest that the points of regular number 18 are discussed today, respectively, points 1 and 2 and 18 and beyond. If this is not accepted, I demand that we vote on the request of the Council of Ministers, that these laws be discussed by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u125	I thank Mr. Novaković, I just have to tell you, and I will not allow myself to comment on opinions, nor do I have the right to settle down, except when I discuss it, when I ask my colleagues for a word for discussion. As for consent or not consent to the College, I have to explain it. Dear fellow Špirić had similar reservations at the College, but this is such material, that I, as chairman, was obliged to propose him to today's session for the agenda, regretting what, and otherwise we at the College have full consent and I am also telling you respected colleagues and the public that 4 we will continue to work with agreement wherever possible. Here you go. Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u126	Madam Chairman, Mr Križanović and Mr Belkić, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, means of public information, I would like to draw attention to two facts. My view, of course, is that these laws should be on the agenda of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and I am based on two fundamental arguments. First, as you know about the discussion of the passovers I spoke about, formally-lawfully, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, when the chairman of the Council of Ministers comes out with a proposal to one of the two homes of the Paramentary Assembly of BiH, then there is no debate on the agenda, but puts it on the agenda. So it cannot be removed from the agenda and there is no power of the House of Nations or the House of Representatives to decide whether or not it will be on the agenda. That's the first thing. If you look at these Rules of Procedures, I remind you that, the debate I led on the occasion of the passport has ended so that a half-hour break has been made, consultations with OHR and high representatives of the international community have been carried out, and it is concluded that what the Council of Ministers is proposing must be entered into the agenda, if you remember that debate. That debate was months ago. The second reason, since this is a very specific procedure, which Mr. Matič presented in accordance with Article 100, fully coincides with the interpretation of the High Representative, Mr. Ambassador Ralf Džonson. As regards the remarks made today during the debate on the agenda, it is said that it is unknown that without amendments responds to certain legislative proposals. In Article 100(3), the following is said: I draw a sentence. When this request is discussed, therefore, when the debate is under way, it shall be put to the vote. So we're going to the agenda, we're going to the debate, and it's undeniable that we can do the raps, put it to the vote. If the House is adopted, it will continue its debate and vote on the bill. Now I'd like to read the last sentence of that... 3. Amendments to the law are not subject to, and in this case amendments to the law are not subject to. Okay, now I'd like to say something about a second part of the argument we just heard. So, this is about the first part. As for the second part about the character of the law, to be simple enough, in a simple way to be able to relax, to throw away in whole. I'd like to say this. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina have so far had the largest reader audience of these laws, simply because of the argument that this is the first reading and that it is complicated not to stand, because laws like my colleague said are in force and read them, not only by state officials but also by citizens, institutions, to which these laws apply and which implement them. These are, these ten-fifteen laws, these are the only laws that are thoroughly read and that are very well known to citizens. Secondly, these are visible results of the application of these laws, from coat of arms, flags, anthem, which we are now involved in. It's something about the indisputability of the remark you made. It is completely controversial, because these are the only laws that, because of the nature and manner and character of bringing 5, are well read, applied and there are no grounds for returning to the beginning in the dmah in the procedure, from the point of view of the thesis or position that this is complicated to read. This shall apply. And finally, let me conclude within these three minutes that are at our disposal on the agenda, the argument for this is the following. Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country that is looking for solutions for the future and at this point should be a priority that it has a chance to react to its legislative acts by amendments and amendments and to the Constitution as well, because it is the only democratic parliamentary principle that is why we are actually elected, and we are in this highest house, the upper house of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, when we adopt the procedure, something called the law and when we formally accept it, a normal legitimate procedure is opened for amendments and action against the forces of the political ones, then, in terms of the force of the political one, each of us needs to advance legal solutions in the interests of the citizens and the solution in the Constitution of BiH. It's a function of this home. Therefore, in order to create the preconditions of the democratic that my colleague was talking about, we should enable this House and the Parliamentary Assembly as a whole by adopting these laws, if there are any objections, that something is not in line with the interests of the citizens, the people, that something is jeopardising the positions of a man or of a whole community or parts of BiH or some different services of interest, finally unblocking the process and we begin to do so. So, only when we break these laws in normal business procedures and according to the normal system of relationships that are in force at this point is I underline again until 2002, and until then we can't block all things. I hope we don't do it. We should accept Mr. Božidar Matić's anas, regardless of whether the House of Representatives found a business foothold. I greatly appreciate the debate that sought a legitimate foothold in the Rules of Procedure as well as in the Constitution. This time, the House of Peoples has a double responsibility, as part of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. First of all, no injured Rules of Procedure, so it's in sync with our rules of procedure and our responsibilities. Secondly, we are in the position that the Council of Ministers to which we have given confidence, we are able to unblock one question that is not a... it is a matter of dignity and how today in modern European political theory and practice speak good leadership, the coat... we must create conditions, that we have a government that can do well. It can manage well if the laws that Parliament has passed, the law which requires it to deal with the issue of enforcement and monitoring of the implementation of the law, but the law passed by its parliament and the issue of the dignity of a country, in this case is fully justified. In this spirit, I call upon my colleagues from the clubs, who represent here three people, that, if possible, on the basis of an argument, which is completely reasonable and does not concern what will later be in the discussion of the amendments that will follow after adoption, we make an effort to get out of this chain car as the House of Peoples in which we have disturbed ourselves and I want to show respect for all the arguments we have heard, while asking you to consider the argument that I have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Spahić. Mr. Špirić answered. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u128	Mr. Chairman, the esteemed members of the BiH Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen, if all were so uniform, Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have any problems if those elected by the people had achieved what the Constitution and the law of this country belonged to. Unfortunately, we have come to a situation five years after Dejton, that we have politicians who know better what should happen in Southeastern Europe than in the country where they belong and where they were elected, and I am convinced that it is not good for the state or for the citizens or for the entities. I want to make my contribution to the torment of being created on the authority and representatives of the international community and the domestic authorities protect themselves. I don't think the way and the way we're going will contribute or protect the torment created by that authority of the international community and the Office of the High Representative or the institutions of the authorities elected by the people. Don't be angry, this looks like animal training to me and who successfully runs around gets a sugar cube. I fear that many will eat so much sugar to threaten the sugar disease of individuals, who, of course, understand everything and have before them documents that they have adopted and contributed to their adoption. I'll read you a letter from the Council of Minsitarians that we received on 23.4. So it's written on 23.4. I warn you, today it's 25. And before that letter, we got two letters again that didn't apply to the House of Peoples but to the Representative Council, and someone probably advised them from the Legal Service and said, so let the people turn to the authority that will discuss your proposal and here's what it says. The BiH Council of Ministers, at its 2nd session of 15.3.2001, discussed and established 16 drafts of the law, discussed and established, which was declared by the High Representative for BiH and which, on the agenda, they know, on the agenda of the House of People's Sessions, it turns out that we set the agenda before we were addressed on 25.4.2001, and concluded that the laws in question are being considered by an emergency procedure, in accordance with the provisions of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of BiH, and I am warning you now. Each reads from Rule 100 what suits him and deliberately does not read what cannot confirm these facts. It would be good for the Council of Ministers to explain to us what is the reason for the emergency procedure, and we will apply Rule 100 of Procedure. So, I expected the Council of Ministers to convince us by its argument that this is about matters that need to be discussed by emergency procedure. Now look at attitude four, which Iboro won't read. If the House does not accept the request, yes, and there is a business option, the bill is considered in accordance with the general rules. I must warn you, that the delegates in the order of the Serbian people have nothing against it, that and, without complexes to discuss every legislative project, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH. Nothing outside, and nothing ahead of that. I have to say that I'm like a man who's probably politically considering ambience and mood if this is possible right now. I have warned my colleagues, members of the College, that there is no mood for this to go by emergency procedure and one who wants good BiH, since these are living laws, therefore nothing depends today or tomorrow will put it aside and we can deal with what we can do to keep the people away from the stories, the legal projects, the authorities, etc. It is the best contribution to preserve the authority of the High Representative and my proposal has been, I think, that the college of both homes sits with the OHR Office and with the High Representative and we try to find a legal way out of this situation. People, it's very funny that 16 legal projects, the level of urgency, are explained in two sentences. Looks like no one's taken this seriously, but the OHR and the Office of the High Representative, and I'm really giving them a confession on that. But this way, I say, is the pascivation of both MPs and delegates. So, I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure. Serbian delegates do not escape to discuss these legal projects in regular procedure, but I warn you that we will enter a barren debate, which will not feed BiH citizens and workers. Let's create a mood to adopt these legal projects, that's my suggestion. But, creating a mood doesn't mean that we come to the sessions of each other's homes and create a event and that in front of the eyes of the OHR, the hour we're looking for the general culprits, the hour in Srbin, the hour is Hrvat, the hour is Bošnjak, it's not a good atmosphere. The moment Mr. Ilija or Sejfudin Tokić tells me that there is no mood, and I guess most of them chose them in the College, I will not be obliged to be a part of the agenda, because it is the creation of the event. Of course, delegates have the right to put new agenda points and I have to say that we didn't have a consensus, but that I respect the right of the chairman, to take advantage of the business decision and to define the agenda and that what else I have, the proposal, seems to me to be Mr. Ilija at point 33. He asked me not to discuss it and I don't think it was at the College. I'd like to hear a hint, which is why this point is coming down. I think it refers not to commissions, but to joint delegations both at home. I'd just like to hear the explanation. So, I ask you to, today, simply respect the Constitution and our own documents and find mechanisms to discuss this or to let practice live without solving other burning problems. Thank you. I thank my fellow Špirić. Of course, I make two or three mistakes at every session, but I'm sure I'll never make a material mistake. I made a mistake here at 33rd, and I was going to return it when we adopted the agenda. The proposal is to keep this item on the agenda and we don't put any other committees on the agenda today and I'm reading the implication that it's international commissions, so there's no confusion. These are the two committees of the House and when I finally, when we finally adopt the agenda, point 33 will be, I apologize for the laps, here's the explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u129	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I am obliged on behalf of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, the College of the House of Peoples and the College of the Representatives of the Council to make strong objections as to what is stalled by the constitution of all the bodies of Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, means both at home, in particular, there have been criticisms, which have not been established delegations, and therefore I propose that today, in the agenda, a point must be found on the establishment of all delegations, all four delegations belonging to this House, because of the report discussed by the Parliamentary Assembly Committee on this parliamentary activity which is coming in the coming period and which was already in March and April, which was very intense, did not take part in the delegations of BiH. And it is very important issues, meeting BiH's conditions for accession to the world of Europe. That is why, on behalf of the Commission, I demand that this agenda item, the establishment of delegations, enter the agenda. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ilić. A netačan quote, Mr. Genjac, after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u131	I just want to say that I didn't say that we should take it off the agenda, which means it's not exactly Mr Spahić's quote that I asked him to get off the agenda. I simply asked not to discuss this, which means, that is, there is the possibility of not discussing it without us taking off the agenda. So there's a possibility that the proposer might withdraw. In that case, we don't discuss it, and we didn't take it off the agenda. In that, therefore, that inaccuracy. So it's not true, and only when I'm already here to say that this shows that it's not quite common. In the end, it is not common for another delegate to make clarifications to the delegate on the agenda, or his remarks. I expected gentlemen from the Council of Ministers to explain the reasons for urgency, not Mr Spahić. Of course, I'm not taking that opportunity to, that there's no possibility that Mr. Spahić would say that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u132	Thank you, sir. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u133	First of all, it's a reaction to an incorrect quote, and I didn't say it at all, and I don't remember saying what I just heard, but I totally agree with a colleague from the club of the people's house that it's good that if there's anything to add a representative of the Council of Ministers to what Mr. Matić added, I agree, if, after our intervention. So we have one view of one delegate that it should not be on the agenda and another view of the other delegate that it should be on the agenda. We have one argument and another argument. It's logical to address us now and I expect it the same way you do, but no intervention in that sense as you understand, I didn't tell you from my speech, so I'm asking that a stenogram of my presentation be made available to you. On the occasion of Mr Ilić's stance not to get up again, I am fully agreed that the election of delegations is on the agenda, even though today we did not establish names or structures, because it is a shame that the six-member delegation, according to the members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation itself, was in Cuba, that she did not do the job properly, as they said, I read, and that at the moment while the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH did not have a delegation, she did not send a regular session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to her delegation. Of course, there is a choice between Havana and Strasbourg, but it is normal for us to be present in Strasbourg at the Council of Europe and it is today an absurdity in which BiH lives. I remember a long time ago when I went to Cuba, but, uh, some sentiments stayed with my colleagues very strong, tied up.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u134	It's already a second question from fellow Spahić. Mr. Halid Genjac. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u135	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will have a business question and two proposals for the agenda. Today, we have received a draft agenda for this session of the House of Peoples. Psolnik knows the draft agenda. He knows, too, the mandatory points, which are included in the agenda and knows the debate on the agenda. The debate on the agenda is conducted in a way that delegates propose the agenda as proposed, supplementing the agenda or removing points from the agenda. If there is no discussion, no proposals, the proposed agenda shall be considered adopted. budui we have received a draft agenda, each MP has first to propose to remove the item from the agenda and this is done in the manner provided for in the voting procedure. It can also be proposed to supplement the agenda and it is done as planned. To be direct, this is a matter of political will, a question of preparedness to address a question that has long been present in the interest of all the citizens and peoples of BiH and both entities, and I absolutely agree that we are not wasting unnecessary time on long debates about this, but to approach a statement on the proposals of individual MPs to take down certain points or add to the agenda. I fully support that these issues, and even these laws are being considered today at the House of Peoples's session, that is, as far as the agenda is concerned in general, in particular. As we sit in today's session of the House of Peoples, the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is held in Strasbourg. This is a year which, according to many, is crucial for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. We don't have delegations to the Council of Europe. A few months after the establishment of the House of Representatives and more than a month after the constitution of the House of Peoples. Last time, at the MPs' club, I asked the guilty, or the college of both homes, for which the issue was not resolved. I later found out it wasn't the College's fault, so I'll explain it later. I asked also to urgently resolve the issue of delegations. The House of Representatives, the introduction of the approach, chose a temporary and incomplete delegation. What does that mean for BiH's reputation? I'll read from the letter, assistant foreign minister, current. I would like to inform you that in the history of the Council of Europe, there was no temporary parliamentary delegation, nor such a category exists for the Council of Europe, nor has any mission at the Council of Europe ever reported an incomplete delegation. It stems from the fact that it would be a very bad move for BiH's representation at the Council of Europe to make an official declaration of "incomplete temporary delegation", as long as the official detention of information on their appointment did not arrive at the BiH Council of Europe until 20.4. We believe that at this moment, when Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to report its commitments to the Council of Europe better not to apply an incomplete temporary delegation until a full five-member delegation is formed. Since we all see how important this is, how much damage has BiH's reputation been done with this, there is a reason to ask the question, where is the problem? There are both 10 homes, there are rules of procedure, there is a constitution, there is a fixed relationship between the five-member delegations, there are proposals of the parties, there is a Rules of Procedure that requires that this delegation reflects Parliament's structure, which means that this is a technical question that between parties that have MPs, that the parties from the RS have proposed delegates, that the members of the College have done their job, and indeed where the problem is. The problem is, gentlemen, that the SDP to whom the number of MPs belongs is not in a position to negotiate who will be in the delegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u136	I'd like to ask you, dear fellow Genjac, that we've come out of the context of the subject. We're on the agenda. All you're saying is your attitude, which I greatly respect. I have to say, the others didn't respect it either, and I don't respect it, three minutes of business. I'll let you speak as much as it takes, but within the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u137	Thank you, I know the Rules of Procedure that it's three minutes around the agenda, and since I've seen that discussion over three minutes is allowed, I'm explaining one proposal a little longer. If it had been respected for three minutes, I would have set up this discussion in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u138	I thank the members of the Bureau, and I apologize to you, because they have to go on untouchable duty.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u139	Within one party that has MPs, no agreement can be made on who will be a member of the party. More specifically, Mr Tokić, who insists on being a member of the delegation and at the cost of blocking the election of a delegation to the Council of Europe and not representing BiH in the Council of Europe. I'm going to have to ask you, Mr. Genjac, to stay on the agenda. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Divković called.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I say anything on behalf of the Croatian Club, as chairman of the Club, I can only say something as an envoy, which is for you who are holding the session. It is quite understandable that there are both people and political options that are mutually opposed. There are amongst us, which says political omponents that are more or less likable to us, but that shouldn't be a reason and you shouldn't allow when discussing the agenda that these animosities are used by a pay phone to place these animities in public. When it comes to our position on the agenda. We got the agenda and we appreciated it was something to discuss here today. We, above all, appreciate as the Club, that the BiH Parliament, as a whole, means both its homes and predstavnički and the House of Peoples must and should take responsibility for the adoption of legal projects in this country. So, we need to take that responsibility, not by adopting our law, by bringing a high representative to pass these laws, in order to then criticise the high representative for the legal projects he has adopted, possibly us for not passing those laws. So we must assume responsibility for the adoption of the law and I think it is time for those laws adopted by the High Representative to be on the agenda of both houses of the BiH Parliament, in order to accept and become the laws of this Parliament to make the necessary assumptions that we are going to change them, if we are unhappy with these laws. Clearly, we appreciate that, first of all, we should try to reach a consensus in this house on the agenda and on legal projects and therefore we, the Croatian Envoys Club, are ready to propose that possibly this home works in two parts, yielded in two extensions. In the first paragraph, that is, to accept what we agree on today’s session and that what we do not agree on at the moment, we leave for a while, and in the light of this session, it is a mandatory part of the agenda and we make it clear about it. We appreciate this as an opportunity for the laws imposed by the High Representative to be on the agenda and this House to be accepted by Parliament as a whole, but in this session, we say, we are not having too broad debates and we are not stressing whether it will be accepted or not at today's session. It's like this, one of, I'd say, our proposals, which we appreciate that we could possibly move these points of view. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u144	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates of the House of Peoples, I want to be specific and stick only to the points of the agenda of the establishment, that is, the agenda of 12 today's session of the House of Peoples. I want to point out that I am deeply convinced that this assembly of the House of Peoples has both the will and the desire to do quality work, of course by respecting the BiH Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which is a basic act that we as delegates must respect in this House. That is why I would like to say, when proposing such a agenda, we cannot, separately and separately, observe Article 100 of the 99th or part of the Rules of Procedure, which, in full, refers to the urgency of the procedure when setting the agenda. I just want to remind you that Article 99 of point 1 states that when a bill is submitted, the proposer may request that the draft law be considered by an urgent procedure. He is obliged to explain in particular the reasons of urgency that justify such a procedure, and in Article 100, when it comes to a high degree of urgency, we do not have any explanation today, which is such a high degree of urgency, and especially what I want to say is that, when we look at all this, I want all the legal projects adopted in this House of Nations to go through that democratic procedure, especially since we are committed, at least we from the Club of Serbian Delegates in this House, to do quality work on these legal projects and in no case do we obstruct. For this reason, I would ask you not to make certain precedents in today's session when it comes to birds, but to respect a certain procedure and I don't think it's about these laws and the quality of the law, but rather about the procedure for their adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Turjačanin, then Mr. Jusufović, was in the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u146	Dear gentlemen of the Presidency, the respected delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, my remarks in the first place would have been on the College, whether the draft agenda had been agreed, did not agree or how it was put before delegates at today's session, but I believe it is too large, especially if it was too large, given the specific weight, i.e. the high-specific weight of the laws proposed today in front of the delegates of the People's House of BiH. I think that on the threshold of the third millennium, in which BiH is located, especially in the year when we expect BiH to join the Evrpa People's Society, when the flow of information has allowed the world to become a global village, it is unreasonable to expect BiH to perform this way in preparing such important meetings contrary to the information itself. Mr. Špirić now said that he had just received the following text from Mr. Ralf Džonson, I see that he is in signature, I got it now 15 minutes ago, it was addressed to 16th April, which is explained, but still does not explain why he insists here on some urgency of passing these laws, which, as far as I know, is also in the executive section. I therefore propose, i.e. I support the proposal by the head of the semi-sanitary club, that points 2 to 17 be taken off the agenda at today's session of the House of Peoples, precisely because of the specificity of these laws. What am I talking about? It is a wonder to me when I say in this rotok of information, that in such important drafts of the law, which give BiH first a specific weight, it is given the symbolism of its sovereignty here today, unfortunately not present, or leaving this meeting. Members of the BiH Presidency, representatives of the 13 Council of Ministers of BiH, we have no information from the session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, etc. I believe that their procedure for this session and this bill gives us that particular weight they shouldn't have in today's session. We none of us, from the Serbian people's club, dispute the quality of the proposed laws, dispute the procedure of these laws and dispute the relationship of other BiH institutions in the first place towards BiH and secondly towards the international community, which expects us to be serious in our work. As far as point 33 is concerned, it is a little unclear to me, and again, a vague explanation of the presidency of the people's House of Commons is what it means, and it is coming back to some committees, and I suggest that this point as such be removed from the agenda and that, on the basis of the conclusion reached on the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, the selection of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the order of delegates at home: a) In the organisation on European Security and Cooperation b) the Central European Initiative c) the Interparliamentary Union and d) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u147	Ibro Spahić, for the second time incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u148	In a section that Mr. Goran, as a delegate in the House of the Peoples of BiH, addresses the requirement to maintain point 33 around the delegation, I agree. In the section relating to the representatives of our second home, which is evenly balanced, is not an older home, it is called the lower and upper home usual in the parliamentary procedure, it would be our turn to have information it is absolutely right Mr. Goran, in the section relating to the Council of Ministers, I expect that, since we have called on the representative or Mr. Matić or someone to address us but it is probably a call from Mr. Šimić to have someone address us to finish our debate. So I understood their absence, and in the end, concerning the false precept. The society of the people fell somewhere around World War II, it's about BiH entering the World of Europe, and the psolith is, it's probably a lapus and if it's a lapus then it's okay, I agree and I think it's good because of the manetogram, because people can think that we want something 50 years ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u149	I thank Mr Spahić. It's a replica of a Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u150	The replica to Mr Spahić. It's obviously a matter of language, not to say, and maybe it's a lapus of that character, so we shouldn't be discussing such important suggestions that we trip in some little language stuff. I think you understand the meaning of what I'm saying. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u151	I thank the gentleman. Mr. Jusufović will be long, and then Mr. Džafeorović will.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that if I've noticed for an hour that we've spent in something that we haven't yet discovered the first definition and the legal intention and better said that we're starting to translate some things, since this is just stalking into the work of this house, the first session was the constitution, etc. This reminds me of a time in RS and will recognize my colleagues, especially since there are colleagues here who have been with me for two mandates, I remember very well that there when you mention the word at the beginning, the word BiH each received was measles and simply it could not be used almost, that later, the word BiH would be too used, even where it should not be used. I note here another practice, that some MPs, even the chairman who explained Mr Špirić, are in a very skilled way trying to make everything that makes BiH attributes and statehood and that in one normal procedure to adopt every normal state, and BiH as we started, and given what was happening, it is not normal, but in this way it will not be normal. We first force the High Representative to pass some laws because we can't adopt them. Now after God knows how long, all those laws that make up exactly statehood, statehood, the school attributes of one state, is anthem, flag, coat of arms, etc. We're simply trying to explain whether it's urgent or not, and we were just standing there when, when we heard an anthem imposed by the High Representative and now needs someone from the Council of Ministers, except formally, first of all, explain what an emergency is and what is not an emergency. I mean, we're really starting to be, you know, a little bit of looking for ways that we're not going to do something, but eventually, if we don't get called up, here's what we want to do and we don't really do it. It would be fairer if we told these laws as much as they wanted to live, because they were imposed by a high representative and now they answer to someone not simply to be brought into the regular procedure. I suggest we follow the Rules of Procedure and go to the vote as indicated. In this way, if nothing else, we will clearly throw someone out in some situations that clearly, will say the name and last name, so I say, in fact, my real purpose, and I also think that there are very justified remarks like Mr. Ilić's and someone else, it seems to me Mr. Genjac, the question of forming a delegation and I am asking you chairing and there is co-chairing, one missing, that yet you inform us of some things. Some things are inadmissible that happen, so they don't get in the coolants, you better tell us clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u153	Address, don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u154	Here's a question of delegations, you just need to explain to us what's not on the agenda. You should say it. Furthermore, the issue of coordination between the House of Representatives and the Home of the People, please, you will have to inform us what is going on or we simply need to find some other mechanism, so as not to play deaf phones, etc. I propose that the Rules of Procedure apply.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u155	Thank you. I dared you to step out of the agenda, but you don't mind, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a replica, it's an incorrect quote. In Nikola Špirić as a delegate, you have an honest talker on the Constitution and on the Rules of Procedure, not a skilled manipulator. I appreciate the role and importance of the Office of the High Representative, and I respect that, she doesn't appear here. We have here a proposal from the Council of Ministers. From the moment the Council of Ministers took it upon itself to introduce this into a legal procedure, so it is only legal procedure, it must be before MPs and delegates as if to defend it. He must say what is the reason for the emergency procedure, he must, if the need for a regular procedure is not adopted or accepted, explain only that. Don't let anyone hide. It's ugly for a country where we're behind anyone's back. So, I appreciate our position, I appreciate the role and importance of the high representative, that's what I say publicly, but I've never called on the High Representative to pull anyone's ear because he's powerless to jump two and twenty. There are those who can't jump or work, and I just said it's a drill for every successful run-around per sugar cube. Come on, guys, you're gonna want to get your diabetes is close. Let's take as much fate as we can. Release OHR's office and High Representative on the side. Let us be grateful that these legal projects have established that life functions normally. Do we have the power in a legal way or do we not? We know or we don't know. Are we ready or not? When we called the Council of Ministers, all those who had the right to vote left the session. Have they considered at all or have they understood the urgency that Nikola Špirić, I am giving for law, cannot understand. But I have the right as a delegate to vote yes or no, and everything is perfectly normal, everything is quite common. In the parliaments you are calling on, delegates -- MPs have the right to argue. We're not allowed to do that either, because some of them will be respected for war and some of them for peace, they must have stopped the war. I want Parliament to work, that's my request. I want us to take the part ourselves so that we don't address the international community that has made us too inert here. Let's make it clear who's for what. Thank you. It's not about manipulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, there was almost no need after all these discussions to go out for a pay phone and say something, but from the beginning, I actually need to point out that there is no procedural obstacle for these laws that you chaired today to be included in the agenda not to fit. There are no obstacles to that. There are all business assumptions that the laws declared by the High Representative are now being discussed and adopted at the House of Peoples session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. My justification for this position, I find, among other things, in the provisions of Articles 42 to 46. The rules of procedure of this House in the provisions of Article 16 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House and, ultimately, in the special interpretation which we have received from the Office of the High Representative, concerning the procedures relating to the discussion and adoption of these laws. All the reasons that are presented behind this pay phone today, which concerns urgency, and I think that we should be further explained by ourselves if we want to be correct and fair, by the MPs here who are sitting here, and then we should say that these are laws, the Law on the flag, the Law on the coat of arms, the Law on the State Anthem, the amendments to the Law on travel documents on the Court of Justice of BiH, etc., the laws that have been discussed here in Parliament for three or four years now. Therefore, to call on the urgency now and ask for some further reasons despite the existing, formally existing explanation, I don't think it's correct. It is about laws that are well-known to the Bosnian Herzegovina public and all of us here present MPs, and it is only a matter of political will, whether we or not approach the adoption of these laws today. I would like to make it clear that the MPs of the Party of Democratic Action of BiH at the Bosniaks' Club in the House of Peoples of the PS BiH will also support the agenda that you have proposed and support the adoption of these laws in the text as declared by the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u158	Thank you very much. I don't think there are any more applications for discussion. I will now try, with the help of all of you, and on my responsibility and with the help of the secretary, to formulate the proposals, how do we get to the agenda. I'll start over from easy to harder, and I've already invited everyone to warn me if that's not the case. Point 33 was the proposal to remove it from the agenda. I don't think I'm hurting the Rules of Procedure if we join the vote to take that item off the agenda. It was two suggestions. I don't name who they are. They were legitimate suggestions here. Look, they had suggestions to change the agenda. It was the first thing to take off, it was the addition. I'm going first around this stripping point on the agenda of the 33rd election commission. Who's to get this point off the agenda? - Nine's for it. Who's against it, please? – 2 abstentions – 1 One voice is missing. There's nothing wrong with the vote. There's no 13. I voted. I kindly ask you to repeat the vote. When is it to be point 33. Takes off the agenda of today's session? - 10 Who's against it? - 2 and 1 abstention and thanks. This has been removed from the agenda. I'm not obliged to explain, but I'm glad to give it, the strongest argument, no Mr. Tokić, he did resign in writing, but he was asked to explain it, and I think it's democratic to wait for him to come and explain it. The next was the proposal to add a point on the selection of commissions - a delegation for international organisations. I'm asking you to, and I assure you, there are no 17 options in the name of the College to put it on the agenda. There were also observations, completely legitimate, the second is whether they were founded on co-ordination and co-operation of two homes, etc. Two homes cooperate through the cooperation of the College and this cooperation is going well. Of course, we'll have meetings together and we'll be able to discuss it then. We've adopted principles on two colleges, and that's our business obligation. How much home and which structure, party, sex, etc. And it was adopted on two colleges. This home, I am very responsible and it is very important to me publicly say it has not dealt with any temporary and incomplete working bodies and I do not want to say anything. Since two colleges have not taken a second step, and our college has been prepared to do so, he has even finished running names, but two colleges have not completed the second part, I beg you not yet prepared. We'll have a new session soon. I share the concern of all those who talked about why we didn't finish it, but here's how we do things slowly. Therefore, my suggestion is that this is on behalf of the College, I think Mr. Špirić agrees with me that point cannot be included in the agenda. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u159	Since I was one of the promoters of this agenda, I think I need to clarify. It is absolutely not about any animosities, party interests, but neither party nor any individual should bring the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to be his hostage, that is one thing. The other thing is, I totally understand we can't name delegations. However, inform MPs of what is happening and what we have come to this position and we can reach conclusions and that is my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u160	I was thinking, and please, if I may ask you to withdraw your application. I don't have any further reasons. I think I've been clear enough and I'm asking you to understand that so we wouldn't burden our future work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u161	Mr Šimić, I truly understand and respect you, however, because of the situation in which the Parliamentary Assembly is located, I cannot withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u162	We'll vote of course. I'm putting forward a proposal, asking for Mr. Špirić's word and then Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, maybe this isn't that important, but I think it is. I think that some of the arrangements that exist inside both homes, which are hidden from the eyes of the public and hinting at a change in the best, give the opposite evidence. As far as I know, we as a College have agreed on the representations of one and the other at home in parliamentary delegations. Even in our 18th home, we went to the point where we named people and told them, someone said they didn't. So, as far as we're concerned, there's no obstacle in determining the job. For what the Council of Representatives has changed, people would have to explain. There is a possibility today that we should finish the job and enter into one perhaps unnecessary political conflict with the other House of Parliament of BiH and that is why I think it is not h... but simply to give time for this situation to be clarified. There's no other reason, so in that sense it's mine, if I may say help in this to get out of this. We can today appoint representatives of the House of Peoples delegates in committees and enter a collapsing or conflicting with the Representative Council which is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u164	Mr. Ivo Divković. He's giving up. Here you go. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u165	Let's try to get out of this nasty dead end.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u166	It's not awkward. Radan's still working.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u167	I agree with your and Mr Špirić's explanation, but allow us as a Dom to express our view of the conclusion that the other home and other bodies that are supposed to help finish this job must be on the agenda. We don't have to formulate it as a choice, because then that means me, but we have to put on the agenda a question of election of delegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u168	Thank you very much. I don't think so, I'll give you Mr. Spahić's word, but it seems to me we could end this. Ibro, if you want to talk, go ahead, but here I'd like to get out of this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u169	Mr Ilić has found one solution that is correct and in line with your intervention, that we trust that you will finish the job as one of the equal representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, with Mr Avdić and the presidents, I suggest that we immediately intervene on the agenda, that we do not even have to lead the debate, just to say that we adopt a conclusion, which we oblige the College of the People's House of BiH to keep an agreement with the College of the Representatives' House on this number of those present in international delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and to inform these three of our clubs. I think that's enough to satisfy all of us, we wouldn't be complicated any further, because otherwise it's not correctly mentioned Mr. Tokić and he's not there, and in this context, it's not right to have a discussion about a colleague who among us, between 15 of us, would be really a bit degutant and therefore I suggest we accept Mr. Ilić's initiative to go to the conclusion of this species. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u170	Of course, I really meant to suggest this same conclusion to this house, but of course we can just put it as a point of the agenda at the end of the day to put it in order that we'll come to a conclusion and then formulate it how the fellow Members did it. Do you agree with that? That's how we solved that part of the agenda, and now I'm going to invite you to let us know about the full agenda. We left that out. The first is the proposal, the older is the proposal of the proposed agenda. All the suggestions are good. I invite you to vote for the full agenda now. The result of the vote will depend on what the procedure is. Which is why the secretary warns me not to. Here's to the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u171	If the proposed amendments to the agenda are not considered adopted, the agenda shall be considered adopted. In the event that the proposed amendments to the agenda and after the delegates express their views on the proposal, the House will vote on any proposed amendment. The vote shall be held in accordance with the order in which the delegates have set up the changes. Since this is the case, it must be voted first on Mr Novaković's proposal whether to leave out points 2 to 17 of the agenda, and if there are no changes to the agenda is automatically considered adopted. First things first.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u172	Wait a minute, you'll go to the pay phone. This is a respected gentleman's specific situation. We've got work to do, and I've been invited to the 100th time I put this on the agenda. We're dealing with a very specific procedure and I'm going to put at the cost of the mistake on the agenda as proposed, and then we're going to get out of it. Please, nice. I take that part of responsibility on myself. He has a proposal from Mr. Divković and he has a proposal from Mr. Ilić. Is someone officially asking for a break? The president of the Serbian People's Club is asking for a break. 15 minutes off. We took a break bigger than we did. [[PAUZA]] They're always in our questions, I'd say we seem large and those that aren't. I don't define myself with this. Today's questions are very big that we're discussing. Meanwhile, I held two talks with the Council of Ministers with his chairman, Dr Božidar Matić, to discuss and discuss with all three clubs, to the soul with the Serbian club via my fellow Špirić in these two clubs myself. The situation is neither dramatic nor difficult. It's a little complicated in itself, a little unusual, and now we're gonna get out of it, of course we are. Since most of the issues and disputes were raised by the Serbian Representatives' Club at the address of the urgency of these laws, no one can dispute these laws as lively as they were, but for what is now in the emergency procedure. We have to say that the promoter has called for article 100. Our businessman and that it was done properly, but it was missed to explain our urgency. I asked Mr. Matić to give us a written explanation of the urgency. He, of course, agreed with it because it can't be 20 different, but it will come to us during this session, whether during today's day or tomorrow's or when we agree. Obviously, we won't be able to finish this in a day's time, so I suggest we go do points that aren't from 2 to 17, because they will be referred to by an explanation of the urgency and I hereby conclude, only before that will I call you to reach a conclusion on the need for the constitution and work of the committees, it will be at the position of the point 33rd instead of the point already taken down by the vote. I call upon you to declare it. Who is it to conclude in the end the need to form committees so that they can do their job – a delegation. Here you go. - Eight, would you mind? Someone versus – 1 against the abstention – 3 abstentions Ok, thank you. We've voted and we'll come to that conclusion. Given that we are now moving on to the agenda, since we have a agenda we have well consulted on it and about it now, in this sense, we do not need to vote and we are moving on to the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Peoples. There's no vote. Mr. Munib has no vote on the record – we move to the 1st point of this agenda, it is the adoption of Ad.1. A minutes from the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Please, would anyone like to discuss the minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I have only a comment on page 2 under the quotes "The Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes by the end of May 2001 to make amendments and additions to the BiH Budget and international commitments for 2001 and to refer them to the procedure". This is essentially an illogical formulation, because it is a rebalan which is obliged to work for the Council of Ministers and not to give me illogical orders to the Council of Ministers, simply to make amends, because this was the same debate as I remember, it was about the rebalancing of the Budget, because this is the only option at the disposal of the Council of Ministers, so to be exact. So, he can't make changes and additions to Budgdet, but it has to be about the rebalancing of the Budget, which also has its own procedure, and I have only a suggestion here, so don't stay, so let's make a illogical finding that's not a valid product of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u174	Thank you. We remember that. Anyone else want to discuss the record? If not, can we vote on the minutes, including this intervention by Mr Špirić, which seems logical and acceptable to me. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you. We're now moving to point 18. It's now a series of agreements. 21 Ad. 18. Development Credit Agreement – Water supply project for Mostar between BiH and the International Development Association Mr. Munib. The debate is on point 18.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u175	I'd like to make a point on behalf of the Bosniak delegates' club. Since the promoter has called for a 100th member who implies a high level of urgency, it is clearly indicated that there are no amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u176	Comrade Munibe, I don't understand. I suggested a debate on point 18.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u177	You have suggested but on the agenda you do not glare, in general on the agenda you do not vote on the Rules of Procedure, which we thought was right, but we do not think it is right to go straight to point 18 because I do not understand how you immediately reached point 18. Therefore, the position of the Bosniak delegates club is to act on the agenda, which means by the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u178	And, so, I realized that I got full consent from clubs, you're looking for a vote, whether we're going to start now from point 18. I'm bound to go back to that formal part, but I thought there must be a lot of trust between us. All three clubs, the Croatian and Serbian clubs gave me direct support for this, the Bosniak club did hesitate and since nobody asked for a word here while I was speaking, I thought we had come to the conclusion that 17 laws were delayed until that moment, means within the third session until the moment we received a written explanation from the Council of Ministers. Since the Bosniak club insists on voting, I call for a vote. Can we briefly do what I say, should I say again, within the agenda of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, wait for an explanation of the urgency for 17 points and therefore move on to the 18th point now. Who's so we can do that? - 9 Who's against it? - 4 against the past, therefore, we move to point 18. We have most of the entity and most of the House. So we're going back to the dispersal point 18. I'll repeat it, I thank you for the vote, of course, to everyone, no matter how they vote. Ad.18. A development loan agreement Water supply and sewerage project for Mostar between BiH and the International Development Association Reports for discussion by Dr Genjac. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u179	Just one intervention, for accuracy. Mr. Šimić made a proposal. He's got support. I think the proposal should be clarified that as soon as the Council of Ministers' argument of urgency arrives, the meeting of the House of Peoples continues. That's what I understood.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u180	You've got it all figured out. I made myself very clear and I just said so. Thank you very much. Whether anyone wants to discuss the Development Credit Agreement, etc. If he doesn't want to. He wants Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to draw attention to, perhaps the future activity of the promoters of these agreements. I think of these agreements, in future, along with the texts of the agreement, must provide an explanation with basic remarks concerning the objectives of the Agreement, the deadlines for implementation, the financial or other duties of BiH, in order to allow both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly to see BiH or individual entities in charge. So it would be good to cultivate practice for delegates and MPs to get arguments under agreements, which would see, possibly, the policy of those who offer agreements and would naturally fit into the concept of BiH and entity development. So, I don't dispute these agreements, I appreciate the reason and their urgency and usefulness for BiH, but here's just one note for the future when it comes to these types of agreements, and later I'll say what I think. So that's where I think about the 18-24 agenda deal and I think the same thing for everyone. So, I support it, but for future reasons to be stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u182	First I want to express my disagreement that there is no one here from the Council of Ministers, and they are obliged to attend the sessions of the House of Peoples and to say that it should be practiced in the future. Secondly, today, that is, every time we discuss the position of the commission, the committee in charge of what they are, what is agreed on the committee on that, what is the Commission's proposal. We don't have it today, and we had this on the commission. As the first vice president, I say, we had a commission and we didn't discuss exactly why there were no proposings. We don't have a proposing today, which of course doesn't mean we won't discuss it. So, I support that we are doing this without any suggestions, but I ask that the proposaler be here in the future for some clarifications. I have no objection as to this section, except for Section 205, there's some misunderstanding. Namely, I'll read, the borrower will pay the service cost association at a rate of three-quarters of one percent, and then the bracket says three-quarters of 2%. I'm interested. Something's a print error. What's a print error? So it writes three quarters of one percent in brackets... 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u183	Špirić knows that, says he's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u184	Three-quarters percent. [[You don't hear enough from the scene.]] So if it's three quarters per cent... maybe it's not a skilled formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u185	Then it's an unsuspecting formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u186	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk about this deal? If not, I call you to vote, who is to adopt the Development Loan Agreement, etc. Thank you very much – unanimously. I offer to discuss the agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers of BiH on granting financial assistance to the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of Ministers of BiH. Ad.19. The agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers of BiH on granting financial assistance to the BiH Council of Ministers to the Government of Belgium. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Ilić. All these agreements are less of the same reasoning and the same meaning, the same promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u187	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, here I have decided to make one general remark at this point. I would support what counterpart Novaković said. I don't think it's really good for us to talk about important agreements, especially where BiH's borrowing is concerned, without having an explanation valid by the promoter or that we can ask for some additional information. So, here we are talking about the help of the Government of Belgium on the Council of Ministers, but when it is read it is at first credit and not help, and that assistance is conditioned there, and I don't think that we can, in the future of these agreements when it comes to BiH's borrowing to decide, at least I couldn't give my vote, that tomorrow we owe our grandchildren and not just our children, because at this point we're less able to handle things, especially because these loans don't go in terms of stimulating production but are mainly in infrastructure or for some other purposes, and here we condition this assistance exclusively by buying goods and services from a country that provides this alleged aid, and for that reason, until we know how much of the total debt and duty of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards abroad and under what conditions, I think that the conclusion or acceptance of new agreements and taking new credit would not be right, at least as a human being able to support such a policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u188	Thank you very much. It is necessary here to say that the College of this House has asked the Council of Ministers to have these at our sessions, we will do it after this session of 24 and something in a stricter form and you are absolutely right. Of course, we have all read this material and we can qualify to work and decide but in principle and in fact your remark stands. Anyone else want to discuss this agreement? If not, who is it to adopt an agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers? Ilić didn't vote. You're being held back. Now we're gonna figure it out. - Eleven for it. Who's against it? 1 versus and 1 abstention. Thank you very much. Ad. 20. Agreement on promotion and protection of investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Finland Does anyone want to speak? If not, I invite you by the same procedure for voting, as I pointed out, the same proposaler and very similar documents. Who's in? Thank you, Lyapa, we adopted this unanimously. Ad.21. An agreement to promote and protect investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sweden is the same thing. Nobody wants to talk. Who's in? I think it's unanimous. Thank you very much. Ad.22. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on international road transport of persons and things Does anyone want to talk about this issue? The commission gave support, here's a colleague of mine... if he doesn't want to, who's in? Who's in? I thank you unanimously. Ad.23. The framework loan agreement between the Bank for Development and the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Tuzla Water Management Project – Water supply is not far from even the water industry. Anybody want to discuss it? If he doesn't want to, please, who is he to support, and he wants to apologize Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u189	I'd have a practical question, but I don't know who to refer it to, or who to. Namely, this is what he says. In the case, it means ratification of the Framework Agreement on the loan signed between the Bank for Development and the Council of Europe and BiH, where it says in the third indent. Message from Mr Igor Gaon's ambassador, etc. The Council of Europe has exceptionally extended the right of their decision to grant credit, and there is a possibility that the credit mentioned will fail, if no later than 21.1.2002, the realisation of its first tranche. Since it didn't happen or did it, I guess it didn't, because we didn't ratify, did it fail or didn't it fail? 25
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u190	Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, I think this agreement has been ratified in the Representative's Council and not only this agreement, there are other agreements, let's say water supply for the Prnjavor municipality and I'm surprised that it didn't come to the agenda, but it will come, I don't think it should be the cause of the dispute, because it's true that Tuzla and the other towns of BiH have problems regarding water supply and happiness, so we need to do everything in order not to fail the agreement, because the problem is urgent. So, the Council of Representatives passed, and it was believed that Ambassador Gaon's warning was to hurry with the procedure, because the threat threatened. But if one home passed, I assume that the Bank that credits this agreement and this project has taken note that there is a mood in BiH to give valid guarantees to enter this project. That would be my explanation. So we're just ratifying something that the Representative Council has already done.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u192	Is there an acceptable explanation for you? Thank you very much. Who's so we can ratify? Unanimously, thank you. Ad.24. BiH-European Investment Bank Funding Treaty No 20515 of the Road Project in BiH Does anyone want to speak? If he doesn't want us to approach the vote, please. Who's that? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.25. There is no civil-legal convention against corruption, and there are no questions. Who is it to adopt the Civil First Convention against Corruption? Unanimity. Thank you very much. Ad.26. International Labour Organisation Convention No. 182 on the Worst Forms, excuse me, all that is my fault. Excuse me. Ad.26. Criminal-first anti-corruption convention for. Unanimity. We're at 27 now. Ad.27. International Labour Organization Convention number 182 on the worst forms of child labor exploitation Anybody want to discuss or ask? Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you, 26 Ad. 28. In addition to the Convention prohibiting or restricting the use of certain types of classical weapons which may be considered as cause of excessive traumatic effects or have a non-selective fact Any questions or discussions? There is. Would you like a pay phone, please? Registered and we're only left to question that word, and I don't think there's any reason to approach the vote. Who's to accept this supplemental protocol? Unanimity. Thank you. Ad.29. Resolution on Economic and Social Policy in BiH – Proposer Ibrahim Spahić
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of our home, I propose to the House today that we consider a resolution on economic and social policy in BiH. I express first and foremost the belief that today's debate, we will finally approach the fundamental task of the legislative authorities in BiH, that on the fundamental issues of economic development, economic reforms and reform laws that the Council of Ministers needs to prepare, we will take a necessary step towards the regeneration of the economy in BiH, then the key and fundamental factor of any assessment of the success of a council, one government at any level that will allow for a real reduction of what is called the economic and social gap in BiH in relation to countries in the immediate region and the country, above all in Southeast Europe, not to make a comparison, given that we know where we belong. Another key factor is whether we have stopped what is happening to us in the economy and what is equating the number of unemployed with the employee and whether we have provided new domestic and foreign investment for employment growth in BiH. Finally, as a third factor, did we ensure that our external trade deficits are decreasing. What is the problem in BiH today is that for two years and as an MP and now as a delegate, I am trying to reach a response to our interpretation addressed to the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the powers of BiH institutions, finally having a debate on the economic and social development strategy of BiH and on this point, and that we will see the light of the day and, of course, all together, when a single working paper entitled "The Enterprise Society of BiH, a global strategy of economic development", which ended somewhere in the autumn and which is now at different levels of the NGO sector, entity and expert in the discussion by the Council of Ministers. I expect that this document, which we have patiently worked on, along with the Council of Ministers' ministries, will be able to have as a basis our work and our action. What is essential today is whether we have a constitutional and legal framework for domestic and global investment, the introduction of new technologies and development programs that guarantee new jobs. Are we really a society ready to face the problem of unemployment? Are we, apart from receiving for the 16th time, this White Paper on our tables, about joining the European Union, finally able to speak operationally from within, in a way that we can approach the adoption of the law on the external-27 trade chamber of BiH and ensure the fact that we will be partners with the world and that will enable us to really go to the free market both in the country and in the world, in a way that meets the standards of the European Community and our ambitions, to really face the problems of people who are on the edge of poverty today or at the border of total misery, whether it is the village or whether it is the city. The reason for this resolution, of course, is given in the text that I have shown you, but it can be drastically depicted over a number of data. If the data is reported today that the average personal income in parts of the country, in RS somewhere around 305 KM and just over 425 marks in the Federation, we have hundreds of thousands of unemployed in BiH, we have several hundred average personal incomes, in a country where there are not always in fact so that people live from their own work. Therefore, we as the House of Nations have a commitment, as well as a House of Representatives to ask the Council of Ministers for a clear economic and social programme, clear economic reform, regarding the fact of our council of ministers, agreed, of course, with all levels of government in BiH and on this basis, it would be time for BiH to have a serious partnership between the Council of Ministers, trade union organisations and employers, which I have spoken of several times, because I believe that without such a social dialogue, without such an economic clear determination to change in BiH, it would be difficult for us to step out of this link car that BiH is in. Since I would not like to take away the opportunity for you to talk about the Resolution and to give your suggestions and suggestions, which should be included in this text, I would just like to highlight a few key factors that I can decide that this House and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are truly fulfilling one of its earlier demands. First, this is the initial step, to make one clear political position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to remain on the demand that both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly face economic and social problems from the BiH institutions' jurisdiction at an extraordinary meeting. I'm undermining. Secondly, this is a clear view that it is important to present the public of BiH, not only to Parliament, a set of laws that will mean economic reforms in BiH. The third and basic position, it is a clear view that in BiH, the BiH Parliament wants to address entrepreneurship, education and direct international and of course domestic investments, which should change BiH's economic and social picture. This applies equally to the BiH population, as well as to those who are refugees and those who expect to return to the country, as well as to the diaspora, in which there are also strong potentials to support change in BiH. Since there are two types of problems. One is, if we do not have an internally synchronised and serious action by all economic operators and all responsible executive authorities, as well as all chamber organisations and trade unions, it is not possible, of course, to show a clear and transparent way to the BiH population the conditions under which we will change what is today called the economic and social crisis in BiH. On the internal plan, we need social – social, economic cohesion and responsibility of all factors in accordance with their competence. 28 The external plan requires the reorganisation of the structure of the diplomatic and consular representations of BiH and that instead of representative representatives, we get operational representatives who are able to represent the economic and other interests of the citizens of BiH and of our entire country. And in the end, I would like to say that there are, of course, risks, to avoid any possible dialogue in BiH on economic and social policy, if each institution, in its jurisdiction, wants to avoid what is its obligation. What we can do in the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we can call for an appeal – a resolution or some other document by the Council of Ministers and competent institutions, to address the problems of the economy and social policy in accordance with their respective competences. In this spirit, this text and this document were also renewed as an initiative, since we had the opportunity to consider this document also in the previous assembly of the House of Representatives and to be in front of a consensus of inter-entity. I, therefore, am making this text available again to the people of BiH and to the Parliamentary Assembly, fully open to all possible suggestions and suggestions, and as a proposal ready for this text to be the result of our discussion, our wishes and our interests together that we can express in this session today. As you can see, I've taken advantage of a third of the time available to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u194	Thank you very much for the introduction and for using one-third and one-fifth, you speak clearly. In accordance with Article 114, we can discuss this resolution today, or if we consider that it is necessary to declare the relevant commission, we can also define ourselves, so I urge you to decide first. Here we have, Špirić has the advantage, he is a member of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be at the beginning of the interest, my friend Ibro spoke better than he wrote the resolution, and now, of course, we have to make a statement about the written proposal and we have a chance to complete the proposal, incomprehensible to include, of course, what was the proposal. What I'm saying is, it's Article 114. It is prescribed that the House can express its position on relevant political issues, social problems and needs by means of a resolution and establish political guidelines to be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH and other BiH institutions. Therefore, it is obvious that such resolutions refer to the work of joint institutions in part, which implies business and tasks from their constitutional jurisdiction. The proposed proposal, however, in addition to the social policy elements, presupposes it to establish the basics, and in certain segments even sets out guidelines for an economic 29 entity policy, which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the relevant entity bodies, whose parliaments have already established the fundamentals of economic policy, let's say, for this year, the parliament of the RS or the parliament of the Federation of BiH. In addition to the above, the proposal does not contain any new commitment, which has not already been represented or declared in both entities, on the contrary, the proposal merely repeats the general principles known without concrete proposals to overcome problems from the jurisdiction of the joint institutions and that I simply do not feel that it is necessary for the House of People to adopt a resolution. I think it is quite noble of Mr. Ibro Spahić's intention to open up a debate about this, first of all, and to come up with a summary version of the resolution that will not be defiled and will not enter into something that is politically declarative and non-binding. It's too much in BiH. Let's say, here I want to specifically point out some problems, let's say, the key for BiH is to complete the privatisation process as much as possible, etc. More transparently, if the privatisation process is known to be regulated by legal, entity regulations, there are no laws at BiH level, which regulates the problem of privatisation and can open up some political dilemmas that are not good. Then, on the other hand, say the area of agriculture, then attention must be paid to a consistent credit monetary policy, if it is known that the monetary system in BiH is governed by the Karensi-board principle by 2003. There is no coming out of that principle, no matter what the House of Peoples or the Representative Council think. Then, labour legislation, social policy, etc. So, I am close to this proposal, which Mr. Chairman Ilija Šimić said, to continue working on this resolution, I think it would be unserious to say today that we can draw some conclusions that can be resolutional, therefore, and that the Commission on Administrative and Financial Affairs, in which there will be, therefore, more delegates, help us to get to the proposal that will be adopted at the next session or the moment it ends within the Commission. I am also personally prepared to say, I am personally prepared to make my contribution, and if I am not a member of that commission, to come up with 5-6 clear views concerning the joint bodies in BiH, which would strengthen the activity of all these bodies by what the law and the Constitution of BiH give them. In that sense, I wanted to support your proposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u196	I thank Mr. Šimić, and of course I was obliged only to show business opportunities. I've shown them, not defining myself for anything, of course, I have no right to do that at this stage while I'm holding a session. So, we are now committed, whether we accept a debate today on this resolution or whether it is necessary for the relevant committee to make an administrative financial statement in this case. Who wants to talk further? A Turk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u197	I welcome this initiative, which Mr Spahić presented to the people's home, with all the remarks Mr Špirić said in his previous presentation, 30 would only give a few suggestions of my view of the text. I believe that a little uneven social segment has been placed in relation to the economic segment, given the specificity of the space and time in which we live and within the economic segment, insufficient tendencies have been thrown into the protection of something called domestic production, at the expense of not saying external production and external imports.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u198	Thank you very much. Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u199	I also welcome Mr Spahić's initiative to have a resolution like this come before this home, especially to see that this initiative is complementary practically with the programme of the new council of ministers and with the efforts of this home that, when it comes to the economic and social sphere in BiH, it becomes a priority of our interest. I also appreciate that it would be good, given that we are in the phase of preparing the work programme of this home for the next period, that this initiative will in some way contribute to the preparation of the work programme of this home, that is to say to determine the initiatives of this resolution, to concrete activities under the Home Programme, which I hope Ibro will agree with. That, too, I suggest that we maintain this resolution, with the conclusion that it goes to the commission and that the committee agrees with the views, I would say, the priorities set out in this resolution in order for the next, possibly, session of the resolution in that new form to be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u200	Fellow delegates, allow me, too, to support Mr Spahić's intention to commit all the structures of the BiH government to this issue in a political, political act called the resolution in some way. Of course, I have written all of this text of his, I would probably formulate some things differently, but what was Mr Spahić's intention remains, as I understood it, is that through this political act, this home, I would commit the structures of BiH, all the structures of the government, that this extremely important issue for the citizens of BiH is raised from a dead end, that we are less concerned with political issues and more that we are dealing with these life issues, and I am joining the proposal that this goes through the commission and, of course, I call on each of us and, I call on all delegates to make their contribution to formulating this resolution at the end that will come before the House for a statement being as brief and clear as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u201	Thank you. Anybody else want to talk. If he doesn't want to, say Ibro.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u202	Mr. Šimić, dear colleagues, I can say to you respected friends, because we are one of this totally segregative composition without a lady in the House, but I would say 31 would like to say, well done to those who are present and who work for us and I think it would be good to have that changed soon. I would like to express my satisfaction that the clubs have individually supported and the representatives of the delegates work on the resolution. Also, I would like to say that at first I pointed out that this was an initiative that I had already had in progress and I didn't want to change the text and I would change a lot of things, because many things have changed in our relations and heads a long time ago, and I think it's very good that there is a will for the people of BiH to adopt this document. I consider this essential support, precisely what Mr Ilić said was a statement to the political resolution of the House of Peoples about the need for everyone to do their job, within the competent institutions, and that we should draw priorities on a perhaps key page and I am ready to accept as a proposal for a call from the gentleman to give each and every fifteen delegates their comments on the text, that, as we did to the resolution on the free policy, two years ago, we work together and to lose the authority of this resolution to be, indeed, all 15 delegates of this resolution. Also, I accept that this is going to chaos. I believe that there is not enough on any Commission on Administrative Affairs, although it is in its work description, it should also go to the Committee on Foreign Policy and Economic Policy, it is a committee that treats large issues of international BiH's obligations and, of course, the Constitutional Law, where it is affected by some legal solutions and the jurisdiction of the institutions of the state, entities and other levels, and in this respect, given that there is no economic reform without reform laws and there is no social policy without basis in certain regulations and laws, I, therefore, thank my colleagues for supporting the resolution and I believe that Mr Šimić will now have the conditions to conclude the debate on this introduction of our work on making one text, which will be the common text of all 15 delegates, I underline, and therefore I have put it this way. Thank you very much for your trouble.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u203	I thank Mr Spahić. The college, I have no need or vote, I see that we are completely in agreement about it, the College will refer the two committees to this resolution and return it to session as soon as possible. Thank you very much. We're at 30 now. Ad.30. The resolution on trust and reconciliation in BiH – the proposer, such as Mr Spahić, is asking him to take even less time now than before, I appreciate everything that has been said here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u204	As you can see, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Kolegijum, our delegates and representatives of the International Community and the Press and Radio Television, as well as representatives of the Secretariat of our Parliament, have prepared a document that I deeply believe is why we should act in a similar way as we have approached this resolution on economic and social policy. For what? I don't want to repeat to you any of the views I've written here, but I would like to warn you of three facts about BiH's life. First, it is unacceptable for politicians - MPs, people who act in public life to be the last to open the debate in the right place, which is the BiH Parliament. Prior to that, as you know, many NGOs and associations have opened the dialogue before representatives of religious communities in BiH. Different initiatives such as the truth and trust commission appeared in BiH, various projects of young people who have joined a civil society process throughout BiH and are looking for solutions to come out of what is called ps-war transition trauma and any other situation. It is enough that we all know today in the BiH-wide area and the International Red Cross have registered 17,000 reported missing persons from the entire BiH area. Think about the drama of a family who knows nothing about the closest and the identity, above all the human integrity of any individual who cannot establish a relationship with their own. Another reason why I think it is important for the House of Peoples to do it, I also expressed in a proposal for a law on the protection of national minorities in BiH. Meanwhile, a proposal from the Council of Ministers and I look forward to it. For the first time in BiH, about something that only fully underestimated, appears in competition and the most positive, in search of the best solutions for the protection of national minorities in BiH and may be someone else with a bill, but we will probably come to the law, which will allow us to be a society that will take care of every man, no matter how much he belongs to the community, which political options, nations, religions, etc. Social and gender-specific. That's not declarative stuff. This is the most sensitive area of human life and the greatest responsibility of one country to regulate the well-being of its peoples and to give everyone as good as necessary to live in a different country where, of course, human rights and freedom issues will be the basis for every political and public action. Finally, the third reason I consider it important to approach this resolution with the same attention and with full confidence in both the intention and the objectives of this resolution. You know, BiH today has the responsibility to establish standards that concern both our internal and our external obligations that we have when it comes to standardising life in Europe. I want to make it quite clear that it is much better to work on peace building, to prevent conflict from avoiding what is called any kind of domination or segregation, than to go into those processes that will further deepen political, national, social and any other human frustration and problems. I am a man who thinks there is no collective guilt, but has individual guilt and responsibility as well as what is a breach of trust and reconciliation, is a process in which to participate with full human strength and energy, especially if it is the elected representatives of the citizens of BiH and if they have responsible functions at different levels. In addition to this statement, I would like to say why I considered it important to have this initiative back on the agenda. I have been looking at lately, of course, different processes, at different levels of education to the economy, understanding this problem of trust and reconciliation in BiH, and I felt that if anyone has a duty, 33 rights and a duty to respect human rights and freedoms, to launch a no doubt clear public debate and processes that would allow the protection of any identity or community of society to be recognised primarily in changes in BiH, I thought that this was primarily the House of Peoples of BiH and the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This initiative isn't about some kind of exclusivity. It is for what is the nature of political work, the nature of political work, that it is looking for solutions for joint moves for compromises, for the clarity of the relationship that a society needs to build in order to produce a harmonious community and to be able to act and live and work in it. It is not irrelevant when it is said that an economic and social environment is necessary for the life of one family, one family, one individual. Equally important is the law that is equal for everyone in the whole BiH country, so is the space that the state offers to that citizen in its immediate environment with neighbours with Evropa and with the world. That guarantee, BiH has an obligation, let's say it does, when it comes to the harmonisation and harmonisation of the minority laws with neighbours and across the region and Europe. That is also the obligation of BiH when it comes to the right of citizens to return to their homes. When it comes to refugee-moving law, BiH also has this obligation when it comes to its role towards diaspora, but above all BiH has, of course, a commitment to the truth and to what is called responsibility for everything that is past, tearing for better solutions in its life and for better solutions to building a newfh relationship in BiH. It is undeniable that BiH has a responsibility when it comes to war crimes issues and when it comes to issues of individual responsibility for the situation in the country, but it is also undeniable that BiH has an obligation to build relations in its country with all its citizens, with all its political factors with all those who trust citizens, with all those who are making a real political scene, who are doing what they are, let's say, voters in this case. I felt that this was the moment when, with a declarative call to return to the institutions of the system, this period in BiH's development should be marked by a completely different policy that will be led by these institutions, this means that we are looking together for solutions that will be reasonable, reasonable for one state, to establish one process, permanent communication and a democratic dialogue that lacks political parties and its bearers of its will political ones, whether directly on behalf of the citizens. So I would like to invite you, as colleagues in the House of Peoples, that, too, this text, very critically, very openly, is clearly put before you as an object of your interest, but that we in the House of Peoples, as representatives of one political will at this time in BiH and various political parties, but above all as people who are in the upper House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, assume our part of the political responsibility and responsibility for building trust and reconciliation in BiH, without any illusions, without any hypocritical false hypocrisisic positions that anyone in BiH would take, with a clear intention to build up this process of trust, building stability and security for every man and his family, for every nation, means, in fact, the well-being of the country itself and its members, but those citizens of that community of the city, it is the intensity of this resolution. It is actually a process in which we can do this and this text today, but the future depends primarily on those who have received the responsibility and trust of citizens to build these processes. It is not good for the political environment to be, as I would say, the last depot in which problems in BiH are not openly discussed. If there is a good will, this would be important to find not only at this home, but also at the House of Representatives and certainly pass through all possible consultation processes, building different forms, by way of commissions, special groups, however you wish, but we as Parliament must have 34 active roles in building relationships in society and above all in defending human rights and freedoms and I think this is the moment when it can be done in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Spahić. We have a very important, ambitious act in this house. He is subject to the same procedure as before, I invite you to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u206	I will, of course, speak briefly and give my vision and suggestion, but I say again it seems to me that Ibro spoke better than he wrote or it's old material or the author is here... but it would be good if we had evolved in this country a little bit to go towards a common goal and I don't see anything controversial about it. So, if this was all said to be translated into clear resolutions, maybe today you could talk about adopting a common position or a common resolution, but the introductory text of the proposal, I don't know, I have to ask Ibro, is this an innovative or is this an old part of the text too, okay, but here I want to say and I'm going to make a proposal. The introductory part of the text of the proposal should serve as a basis for further stating the positions of the resolution absolutely does not meet its objectives or corresponds to its individual segments to the real situation in BiH. So, such a resolution on trust and reconciliation must really be a document that will avoid assessments that may in some ways burden the situation in BiH. Namely, the opinion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should declare that "Bosnia and Herzegovina" etc. It cannot successfully develop under conditions of more “armed ” than real peace in which trust is long shaken and reconciliation still at a very low level. The public would certainly produce an unfavourable echo, or even a counterproduct, perhaps at this point in the Federation, a stronger counterproduct than could be said of the RS. In addition to the proposed opening text of the resolution, it is said that strengthening mutual and international trust and reconciliation, on the basis of the establishment of an impartial, German historical, but real truth and political and moral legal responsibility in past tragic events, are an assumption of the realization and intensification of these processes. Those sentences in which a lot of things are said, let's say who is, what is real truth, what is the historical truth in BiH, therefore, would have dragged us into part of unnecessary debates that do not contribute to this noble goal that Ibro and I suppose every normal man in BiH stands for. So without carrying out those processes, opening up opportunities to seek "real truth" which led to tragic events, because always wandering around in BiH and searching for new truths have resulted in something that normal people do not want. In the opinion of the Proposer, there is no opening or intensification of the process that presupposes them to be the objective of this resolution, therefore, without establishing the true truth. So, all processes until they really are established, they should stop, and I call for a process of trust and reconciliation, because only calling for a process says that it's basically a time distance and a time distance. 35 In point 1. It is very clumsy and perhaps counterproductive, in my view, that the term “feelings of collective guilt” repeats the general known and foreseen principles of the BiH Constitution. Point 4 already confirms the constitutional court's decision. So, a step into BiH in that direction of happiness has already been made. Points 5.6.7.9.10 and 12 also repeat in BiH the accepted views long ago. Point 8 advocates abolishing the term minority returns, as such a formulation in a certain way, is precisely seeking to grow and favour the establishment of a pre-war democracy structure in BiH. Point 11 is pleaded for the establishment of appropriate bodies that would be formed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly but does not mention the character and jurisdiction of such bodies, their powers, or the answer to an unsatisfactory question, whether those bodies would come into conflict with the relevant entity bodies or BiH institutions, and whether the existence of such bodies would entail additional costs, an increase in the state administration, therefore, would be in line with what we wanted in the previous resolution. So, I don't argue that it's a good idea, that good things can be accidentally formulated, especially I don't see that anyone can have against such an idea a strong stand of rejection, but here I suggest that the same way we talk about this resolution as the previous one that we all contribute to and that in some clear views we try this process, which I assume Ibro is thinking about as all of us, but it's very difficult to glean in some clear sentences, but here we are working on this resolution that it is subject to consideration in committees to come to this home and, of course, to offer it to the Representative Council. These are, therefore, my intonations in terms of positive promotion of such an idea, with the intention of, of course, reaching a solution that would be harmonised and in which there would be no polarisation in thinking that has led, for example, to the slowdown of the process and trust and reconciliation in BiH. Thank you very much. I am not asking for the resolution to be removed, but simply to work on the resolution further within the committees to come up with a coherent attitude and some sentences that go beyond the objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u207	I thank Mr. Špirić, of course I will make every debate possible, but it seems to me that the promoter and Mr. Špirić understand each other, if I have no wrong, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u208	As far as I'm concerned, I've been very clear. Of course, some things have changed and where luck is that point 4. When it comes to implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Minorities we already have today. I welcomed the adoption, because that was before the adoption. We still don't have, we have a draft of two laws on the protection of minorities. I don't think it's just my responsibility that some processes, let's say, have accelerated or slowed down, but I would like to express my belief that we can also work on this document as I have heard and Mr. Špirić, and I assume that it is difficult for Mr. Šimić to conclude this debate now, I can only say that we would not complicate things, the text of the resolution is a normal text that must be written, signed and 36 submitted. He is directly subject to any kind of debate and procedure that is understood. From my point of view, if we open the debate today, on all these issues right now, we can do it, I am ready, and if we agree to go to these committees on constitutional and legal issues, because this is the domain of human rights and freedom and other committees where jurisdiction is felt, especially when it comes to foreign policy, some of the obligations we have to the world and standards of Europeanisation, etc., I am also in the mood to for the next 15 or 30 days how much this process goes along and in this is the motive of this declaration. It is important that the House of People accepts the idea and that the first resolution on trust and reconciliation that BiH's political forces finally accept officially in the parliamentary procedure the obligation to build the process, participate in it and find solutions that are best for BiH citizens and its peoples. I think that's clear. And now around some parts I would not like to answer, although I could, and there is no reason why, because my intention seems clearly recognised to me and there is no reason to doubt, too, that the debates in the committees in the bodies will express all our differences and all of our common interests and that we will build on this one text that will enable us all to be able to agree and that we will be able to direct BH to the public as a serious act of this Parliament's political will. If we accept that, I accept that Mr Šimić concludes in the spirit of the previous resolution, with what is really clear to say that these two resolutions are, in fact, concentrated by my deep conviction on the function and the meaning of the change of some roles between institutions called parliament and other institutions in BiH, and that is why I considered it important that you accepted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u209	I thank Mr Spahić, Mr Ivo Divković. I don't see a reason, but I have no right to prevent it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u210	A very well-intentioned replica, because I think Mr Spahić is in his presentation, I'd say I'd be inaccurate, which can be misunderstood. He said now somewhere in the end, that political forces in BiH finally understood the need for work, etc. at reconciliation, I think that certain political forces have long understood the need to work on reconciliation and that we are actually trying to strengthen this initiative, improve and through this resolution and that is me...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u211	I will conclude this debate, with that I was obliged to put these resolutions on the agenda, but that my relationship with them is more than a business obligation. I believe that these are important acts and that it's good to work on them, that we all have that taste and that's what you all said in those discussions. I, on behalf of the College, will be very willing to engage in the work of the Commission and in our future work on these resolutions. You, therefore, agree to refer this resolution to the committees in charge, and it will return to us again. I thank you for that. 37 We are at 31. Ad.31. The conclusion on the criteria for hiring representatives of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is what is called colloquitically professionalisation. You, like all other materials for this entire agenda, have been given this conclusion. Whether there is a desire and a need to comment, suggest. If there isn't...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u212	In the previous joint case of the Commission on Administrative Affairs of both homes, the right to employment, therefore, I call for an earlier decision, it is a matter of amending the decision, it would be good to have an old decision when it comes to amendments and, of course, to explain what motivated it to make a more rational and better decision and to say. Therefore, the right to begin was not only for members of the commission, but only for members of the College, presidents of the commission. This conclusion extends the right of professionalisation to members of the committee in the House of Peoples. According to this conclusion, the delegate who considers himself entitled to professionalisation should address the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples in order to recognise this status. In line with the conclusion and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Commission is competent to determine the amount of the salary coefficient as well as the wages related to the employment relationship. So, we got into a situation to say that the right has everyone. Are we with this decision objectively in a better material position, if it's better standing than a year earlier. If so, then this is a good decision, but I am not convinced that we have a naive story and a public statement, and even a political address for BiH citizens on the basis of this kind of thinking. So, if we stand it better so that we can all be in a professional working relationship or we will be guided by some rational criteria that perhaps at this stage there is still no need for everyone to be employed. I know that Budget has entered with the assumption that everyone will be employed, but then it loses the meaning of our moaning in front of the people and citizens, it seems that there is no means for them alone, in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u213	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? Of course, my colleague Špirić and I discussed it at the College. We know the mood of envoys in this home, some will accept the role of professionals, some won't, we're a small home, this is my explanation, which my colleague and I already exchanged. We are a small home, home to the people in everything we must be equal as clubs and as individuals and therefore our criterion is so simple. I think it's also good to be this simple. Whoever of the delegates expressed a desire to be professionalized, they would do so and it is not only a material question of course, it is a matter of working conditions, quality of work, it could be talked about a lot, but I think this is a good and simple criterion. We cannot cost much as a small home, but as a very important home of the BiH Paramentary Assembly, we need to ensure working conditions and they exist. They don't want to talk anymore. Who is it to adopt the proposed decision? - 12 Who's against it? 1 v - 12 for and 1 v, we adopted the decision, the conclusion of the pardon and now we are at point 33. 38 Ad.33. The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat again has a paper, a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions, etc. I am convinced that you have consulted him and he falls within the scope of the work, only in a slightly different way, of the organisation of work in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Anyone want to comment, ask, discuss?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u214	I've got something, it's a sign that I'm getting ready, I've got some more serious objections to this part than this one. The request for an examination of this proposal shall be irrevocably referred to as Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, namely its urgent consideration, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure for draft laws rather than internal organisational decisions. I ask you, for these reasons, to make the proposal an act in the ordinary procedure, and to make the following comments. I ask that we not only come to a situation where the moustache of business matters is not good for practice, it does not just work out this proposal that can pass or stop. In Article 1 The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions and the order to point out, I have two proposals for this decision, one that I received today directly at the union and one that I took and studied. The one I've studied I've got comments and the one that I won at this session, I'm going to say what I think, although small corrections are important, but the message is the first one, or the second one very important. In Article 1 The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions on Chapter Two to delete the position 1 which reads: “Station 1 is amended and reads” “Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples is responsible for determining and approving the number and structure of employees in the Secretariat. Suggestion. Instead of this text, enter a new position that reads: “The number and structure of employees in the Secretariat of the Paraliamentary Assembly are determined by the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, based on the joint proposal of the House of Representatives and the College of the House of Peoples. I'll give you an explanation for what. The Commission's decision is made by a majority over half, and it would not be good to disenfranchise the home and college, related to this policy, because of the specificity of decision-making in certain matters," I, therefore, advocate to keep it as I propose. Proposal 2 in Article 1. The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions concerning Chapter II to delete Section 3 which reads as follows: “Station 3 is deleted”. Instead, the proposal for an existing position of the 3rd existing decision is fully in force, and now I'm going to tell you when it's explained to us, I was on that college to go by emergency procedure and to delete attitude 3. I asked to see what it says in paragraph 3, and now I'm going to tell you what it says and suggest that it remains in force, as is the subsequent correction in this new decision that I received and it says. At the time of reception, it is necessary to make sure that the overall national representation of employees is in line with the national structure of the BiH population, according to the latest census, with two-thirds of employees' structure being from the Federation of BiH and one-thirds of RS. Members of the Secretariat's College as well as all 39 secretaries of the working committees of the House of Peoples will be appointed from the ranks of the three constituent peoples of BiH. So this is a constitutional provision. I doubt it was a technical cherry, because it was a long time ago the intensity that this decision was changing, and that it would change it certainly wasn't an emergency procedure, but to open a normal debate. I don't argue that anything can change in a normal procedure as agreed. So I suggest that this goes into regular procedure, because today the delegates got a new decision and they had an old one and we prepare it in a regular procedure, nothing will happen in ten days to make the right decision. So, my essential comments are that on a proposal from both colleges not to be dissuaded by homes make a decision and remain in force, but this is also the subsequent revised proposal to remain in force for this member, attitude 3. But I don't think there's any reason when these decisions are to go according to an emergency procedure, it's a business matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u215	I thank Mr. Špirić. If Mr. Hadžović wants it, maybe.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u216	The idea to change the current decision on the organisation of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat is imposed by the need to adapt the organisation of some of the Secretariat's organisations to some of the legal obligations that lie ahead of Parliament. We, therefore, must increase the number of employees, in the sense of defiling the public relations office, which is the task of the Secretariat under new conditions. In order to do so, we need to go to a change of decision on an organisation that should be voted on by both homes. In the Secretariat, he considered that there was no need for homes to decide now whether one or two people should be newly employed in the Secretariat, because by deciding on an organisation that remains in force, we have established the basic principles on which the Secretariat works and the basic intensity is, to now bring down to the Administrative Commission as regards the number of perpetrators and, of course, their expertise, etc. So the basic principles of the organization, which are adopted by both homes, remain. You have received the text of a decision adopted at the House of Representatives. It is an amendment, i.e. erasure of attitudes 4 and not 3. Decisions. Therefore, the principles of national and entity structures remain, as established by the decision. I must say, the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples, when they make a decision, make a decision on the same procedure as it does at home. This means not only the simple majority but also the entity majority, and it can also be declared a question that it is of vital national interest. So there's no voting on the committee when it comes to making decisions. This is Article 35(2). Your rules of procedure. I think that for the reasons of simplicity of the decision itself, it is proposed that it be considered a shortened, i.e. urgent procedure, because simply that part of it is transferred to the competent commissions, which is otherwise common in the parliaments of the world and in the entity parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u217	I thank Mr. Hadžović. As far as I'm concerned, it's pretty clear both the essence and the intensity, and it's also answered to this question that Mr. Špirić has problemed, it's a matter of business justification for urgency, here's to discuss both. Anybody want to talk? 40
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u218	It is clear that the amendment retains the principles adopted by both homes and, of course, has the intensities to address practically the issues facing the Secretariat. All principles are protected and as regards both the Constitution and the entity, especially when it is known that on administrative committees it is decided in the same way as in homes. I therefore believe that this decision should still be taken at today's session, because of the situation in which the sekretarijat finds itself to be supported and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u220	I have to say that it's a member of the 1st session of the Serbian delegates' club, I'll read it again. The Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples shall be responsible for the identification and approval of numbers and structures. We don't mind that the competent commissions can determine, but not approve of it is the problem. So our attitude is clear here. First of all, we don't think he should go after an emergency procedure. We think that in the procedure with these amendments, one appropriate decision on amendments and additions to the Organization Decision can be reached by the next session, but if we are already going and talking about it, then in no case do we think that the Commission should approve the number and structure of employees. We believe that this should remain in the hands of the House of the Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u221	Anyone else want to talk? Is anyone picking up? We've got two joints here. I bow to the opinion where I think it is necessary for both homes to function as well as for us to make this decision, that it is in a consistent way effective. Also protected are all interests both vital and national and the principle of decision-making is the same as at home. It seems to me, here I am now speaking, participating in a stable manner in the debate. I would support the amendment to this decision, and I think the business principle of urgency is not broken, and here is my very short very simple contribution. So, I'm deciding on it, but let's see if we can get over it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u222	I will immediately state my final position, but I will give an introduction. So, I'm in favour of voting on this issue, and I'd like to if there's one single reason we may not see but somewhere we're supposed to be told. Then I'll think about what Mr. Špirić was saying. Let's see if there's anything, the background of what might violate certain principles that are envisaged. If that's the case, then there's no problem in stopping and assessing what's to be followed. Mr. Hadžović explained very simply. Here, look, the same method of work, the same principles rule in the home and in the commission the same way. So there can't be any breach of the basic principles on which this home rests, but I've worked in executive structures for a long time, and I think this is a very pragmatic one proposal, that the commission is 41 much less a body. It can also be met more frequently, an operational body, and accept all those principles which are in a certain way founded both in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure, etc. However, the order would be, since this is, we have long been late in the constitution of the House of Nations, for known reasons, to at least these, so to say operating bodies can work. I just don't see any interference, and I suggest we really approach the vote. If there's ever one reason, which in use itself, that might look like something that, absolutely, we'll all agree that needs that change. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u223	Thank you. I don't think it's important to point out that this decision was taken at the House of Representatives, and that in a consistent way, it relaxes this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should first declare whether we're going through a regular or urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u225	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u226	If we're going to do an emergency procedure to know we're discussing it, but if we're going to do it on a regular basis, then there are other options to discuss everything where we express our doubts, but here I want to practically tell you right now. Both committees at home count 15 people, it's a composition right over here. How can they make a more rational decision from two different homes than we are aware of? Which we'd like to disengage the college, so I guess the operating body is two colleges per six people, if it's operational. I don't get it. So, we have dilemmas, now to come up with a solution, I'm for a regular procedure in which we're going to remove these dilemmas, maybe remain the first variant, maybe be an intervariant or another variant, but I'm also into rationalization. So, under the rationalization motto, led by rationalization, we tell two different stories, we'll probably get to one, and that's the goal of every parliamentary debate. If we go through the regular procedure, we'll get to that goal. If we're going through an emergency procedure, I'm afraid we're not ruining that goal. Well, that's my only dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u227	I just wanted to say that, normally, it's conditional, given that the regulations that follow us and which we actually submit to, that's one thing. The second thing, as far as the Commission's work is concerned, according to the rules of procedure of both homes, all members of both homes, I think as delegates and MPs are familiar, will be familiar with the agenda of the commission and they have the right to participate in the work of the commission and to give their proposals and opinions. What Mr. Špirić is, forgive what Vedran said, because of one, possibly if we had to expand to insist on one man to go to both homes only because of one person, in order to be in that decision in the organization, I think about 42 organizations, we need to increase. I mean, it's really not rational for her to go all the way home.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u228	Here you go, Munibe.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u229	You see, I now have the answer to what I asked and Mr Špirić clearly replied that he wanted the college to decide on these issues. When you say so, I've explained my thesis that the commission is an operating body from pragmatic shards. You say it's simpler for a college that has three members. That college can't make that kind of decision. So either home or commission. The other thing is, the college coordinates, directs, etc. Everything he writes to him, but these questions can't. Which means, we're shutting down, which was the main reason for you, definitely clear that you can't do it. So the question remains, either it's going to work at home or commission, that's the point. But I think, since it's clear now that you can't collegiate, then it remains that, far more convincing are the reasons that the commission is doing it, but there's no interference that you as a college are positively involved in everything. Therefore, you can have an extraordinary influence there, too, because it is known that all of the two members of every nation are on the committee. So I don't think you should vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u230	Thank you. I think that since this amendment to the decision has been made to us by article 100, we must first declare whether we accept that it is going into emergency procedure. Who's that, please? Here everything is clear – 8 is for – 5 is against. We don't have the entity's support. We're subject to compliance here. It's a matter of college, an agreement is within three days. Three days. We obviously won't achieve agreement, can we consider here a public one, not to formalize the matter until the end. Here are two members of the College, since the third is gone, the president of the Bosniak Club is a member of the College for this occasion. That's right. That's what I'm trying to figure out. Therefore, when conditions are met, it is according to the Rules of Procedure for three days. If they're gonna make it in three days, we'll see about that. I thank you. We're at 33rd point now. We need to reach a conclusion on the election of parliamentary delegations. Ad.33. The election of parliamentary delegations you were at first discussing. Let me give one formulation, which can endure any changes, that we can only conclude, since our college on behalf of this home has done its part of the work in time and quality, that we pray that in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the sooner the work on the appointment of parliamentary delegations, because it is very important that our parliament function and participation in important international associations. Do you agree, or do you want someone? It's hard for me. This is recorded. I'll tell you the point, but I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u231	At the beginning of today's session, dear colleagues, I proposed that the agenda should be placed on the agenda: the election of members of the delegations of the 43 parliamentary assembly of BiH from the House of Peoples and defined which three delegations should be defined. I ask that it be done by the rules of procedure and that it be determined according to that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u232	I have to tell you right away that, I wouldn't want anything more than a millimeter of misunderstandings, but I've been very clear in running this session, when I've said it much clearer than I've said now that our home has done its part of the job, that we can't do it without getting back together with those two colleges, and that's absolutely off right now, so we've accepted by voting this point of the agenda to reach a conclusion on this and we've made it and then, here I'm asking you to get back to the course of this whole session and to accept what we've already given.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u233	Since it's said that we won't be able to today, there are certain obstacles to making a decision, but I suggest that you who are in progress, so, the College of the House of Peoples, the College of the House of Representatives, deliver one piece of information to all clubs as soon as possible, because we're really not in the process, that at least we have some kind of idea, as long as it came to the House of Representatives, where it's stuck, it's just that we have some very short information.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u234	We'll provide you with information that it's done at both colleges' level.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u235	Yeah, but we need to know what it's like and what it's like and what it's like, because it's probably a problem if it's only in the best of circles, it's in clubs that there's a problem. So it's better if he's going to go for a match.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u236	Now I just understood you like you did last time Špirić. Of course the college works originally connected with clubs and the College is structured so – three members of the three clubs and I do nothing that I do not agree with the Croatian Club etc. I don't want to keep counting. I have both spoken the conclusion and he has been recorded, and you want me to repeat his essence, I will no longer, remain the one I said, that is, the need to quickly finish the job of appointing delegations for important international associations and organisations, because the BiH state cannot function on an international agenda without these delegations, this is the essence, and I have said it more widely. He has a question. I'm interested in the decision-making levels of these commissions. We agreed in two colleges. Who broke the deal and I'm interested in what? I'm not a member of the College of Intelligence. Where's the problem? The problem isn't in this home, even people are named, but the problem in the Representative Council, I guess, is about the number of structures. As far as the Serbian component is concerned, one or the other does not refer to them, but it must be clearly located where the problem is. I don't know, I thought it would be 44 completed, but I was informed, or from the tower I heard there was a problem in one of the commissions where two delegates from the Bosniak people were appointed and now it's a little complicated in the Representative Council, not with us. But I'd like it to be given precise information. Where's the decision-making level now? Can we, with this alignment, get into a deeper problem or are we going to solve it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u239	So as many mines fill our quota, I don't get it, because the problem isn't in this home, it's in co-ordination between homes, and I'm giving you the right to have the chairman drive that coordination. There's no misunderstanding for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u240	We find ourselves in the winter where we are and the damage has already been done. It's a very simple thing, if you want the job done. The Rules of Procedure are very clear. The Council of Europe procedures are very clear. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives determines that the College determines relations between one and the other home, ensuring representation of one and the other home and nothing more. The Council of Europe's procedure requires that the delegation be represented by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly structure. The BiH Constitution and the Rules of Procedure require that the delegation be entityally represented and these principles are a technical issue and there are no guesses. Therefore, the College of both homes, on the basis of these principles, should have informed all Members' clubs in both homes, what positions, as far as the party belongs, on the basis of the results achieved, because this Rules of Procedure requires that the structure be satisfied and the procedure of the Council of Europe, of course, and that, on the basis of which the Clubs of Members of the Parties deliver their names in both homes, and that the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples vote those names, because this is a binding procedure, because these delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly and both homes must vote. Me as a member and delegate in front of the SDA, which is the most numerous in the Parliamentary Assembly, along with the SDP. So, we have ten MPs together in one home and another home as well as the SDP, so far my party has not received any information, which are the criteria, which are the structures, as many as my foreigners as the most numerous in Parliament belong to the place and of course I wonder where the mistake is, where the problem is. In order not to fall back into procedural mistakes, so as not to come back into the situation that because of, I will not mention the names of this occasion 45, I will wait for the opportunity to be in complete composition, that because of the party's or incoherent ambitions of individuals we will be hostages of the entire Parliament, please, the College could neither have been authorized to deliver names. The College should obtain names from the MPs' clubs and place all the proposals of the name on the basis of the vote in both homes. The procedure is very clear. I ask you to take both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and the procedure of the Council of Europe and, accordingly, this job ends in the next three days in order not to make the same mistakes at the beginning of the initial steps. So this job can be done in three days, considering all the prescribed steps to be taken. I ask you to do this for the sake of the BiH Parliament, for the sake of our position in the Council of Europe, in the Central European Initiative in the Inetparliamentary Union, etc. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, It doesn't matter who it is. It is important that the procedure is respected and that we have a delegation and I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u241	I must tell you, Mr. Genac, that you have unnecessarily dramaticd both in tone and in lexis, because the College has just done so in such a business and constitutional way. Names are given on the club proposal. Since, in the meantime, there's something going on between the two homes, I'm asking you, I'd like to suggest that we conclude this debate. I don't know if there are any direct transfers here, etc., I won't continue to be malciful in that sense, please yes, this is a very serious and very important job. You've given us a deadline for you colleagues, it's a business and constitutional decree. We're gonna finish this job again, because somebody didn't do it right. We're at this point in the agenda, we agree and we'll agree to vote on the conclusion. He implies everything Mr. Genjac has talked about both urgency and political weight, etc. Do you agree to end this agenda point, too, so here we go. Who's in? You asked for a word, or,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u242	... according to this agenda, only Mr. Genjac and I perform and there were four other members who work in the Committee on Foreign Policy and Foreign Trade and who made a commitment to the College of this House to give the job as soon as possible to end, primarily because of missed sessions and sessions that are at the level of not saying interparliamentary character. I don't know, again I'm telling myself right now I can or can't get along with Mr. Genjac, but obviously I'd like that thing to end as soon as possible. I ask you, will this next session of the House of Nations welcome us with a situation once again unsettled and once again be hostages, quoting here your colleague, someone else's, not to say unreasonable ambitions or unrealistic ambitions etc. or others within party or inter-party disputes, but BiH is now suffering here. Look, these sessions that come after each other, they're such time periods. Don't waste it again, I've heard 150,000 marks here, you understand, because the newly elected body needs to go to Brussels again and spend 50,000 marks without active BiH participation. I don't think that's a good way to do it. I will here, since you, I suppose, have some information, and because of some compromise that we need to reach, give up our proposal, that this time we plead on my proposal on the agenda, but most seriously warn you that within the shortest 46 hours, and that says no later than the next session of the House of Nations, we have a final position on both homes and formed delegations for these levels that we need to form.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u243	I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. Who is it to support the conclusion this way? Is anyone against it? One against. Is someone holding back? Thank you very much. We also adopted this conclusion. Dear colleagues, since we didn't get an explanation for 16, it's done at the end of the session, this isn't the end of the session, you didn't listen until the end of Mr. Jusufović, you would understand. Since we didn't get an explanation of the urgency or urgency of those 16 laws, we're going to interrupt the 3rd session and the 3rd session when the conditions come to pass, and I think it's going to happen very soon, and then at the end of it, Mr. munibe, we're going to ask questions and answers. The seat is closed, thank you very much. The seat was interrupted at 3:30. 47 Dear guestsSpahić can we start working? Welcome, everyone, to extension three. Sessions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, by welcoming you all, I don't forget the media, and I warmly welcome them and thank them for following us. Before we go to work, as we continue the 3rd session, I have to conclude, one thing, I don't like the fact that none of the Council of Ministers attends our session, and I don't think that's good. The response of the important Bosnia and Herzegovina institution to our sessions, otherwise, was not satisfactory at our meeting so far and there is no one present. I'm not calling for a debate on this, but I suppose you'll agree with me that in this case, the College is considering this situation, in fact, it's barely necessary to consider it, but we're going to address the Council of Ministers in an adequate way and we're going to conclude this fact. On the contrary, members of the presidency come, I warmly welcome them, Mr. Joz Križanović and Mr. Beriz Belkić. Welcome. We had a good return from Belgrade from an important job. We've started and we're continuing our work. We interrupted the 3rd session on 25.4. when we reached the Law of the High Representative and when the Council of Ministers did not explain the urgency of the procedure of these laws, according to our 100th Rules of Procedure. Meanwhile, we have received the text of the Council of Ministers, which calls for a member of our 100th Rules of Procedure and explains the urgency of the 16th High Representative's procedure. When we determine these laws, we still have delegate issues and initiatives left, and we will do so at the end of this session, and that session would end. Since we have, therefore, been interpreted by the Council of Ministers on the urgency of the procedure, I repeat by Article 100. Rules of Procedure for the 16 laws I read to you at the 3rd session of 25.4. Let me not read them now. I call on you to discuss the urgency of these laws, or the reasons of the Council of Ministers. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u245	Dear Mr. Chairman Šimić, members of the College, Mr. Belkić and Mr. Križanović, members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the international community, I would like to express two basic reactions to today's debate on the urgency of the adoption of laws proposed by representatives of the international community over the past years in the inability to bring them into the ordinary procedure of Parliament itself. 48 The first and the shortest, I also claimed last time that the full justification for the urgent adoption of these laws is, and I remain there and believe that this first reaction should be given to the vote. Because it was undeniable and then like the undeniable and present argument. As a second reaction, a fact problem Mr. Šimić pointed out is that these 6-7 chairs of the Council of Ministers are empty. This is not how it works in line with what the Council of Ministers' reaction was about these 16 laws and taking responsibility for their adoption in Parliament and the procedures of the BiH Parliament. There are two options when it comes to this reaction. 1. I propose that the chairman, Mr Šimić, be interrupted at this time of the meeting, a member of our people's meeting, and absolutely not be taken into account that something that they have followed by their signature by the Council of Ministers on the importance and urgency of the procedure is being carried out without the presence of a representative of the Council of Ministers. I thank the members of the Bureau who respect the Rules of Procedure and who have, in fact, pointed to the highest degree of political culture and responsibility for performing their duties during the past period. I would like, on the other hand, to suggest that you take one break for 10 minutes and call on the Council of Ministers as chairman of the full authority of the Kolegijum to be here, in their places they find themselves and to participate, following the responses of the House of Peoples. A team earlier, showing full responsibility and full readiness to co-operate with the Presidency and the Council of Ministers in line with its legal and constitutional role over the past few months, which has been incompletely two and a few months. Later you will see in some other legal proposals there is one problem, the relationship Mr. Šimić spoke of. You will see that even the legal acts that we have proposed have no adequate professional response that says, here is what I am giving you the answer to, and therefore I propose that the members of Mr. Šimić's College decide on my request to make such an intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u246	Thank you very much, Mr Spahić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić. I think he answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u247	Dear fellow delegates, I must say, and, also, to express regret that no one from the Council of Ministers is present today at this session, and I must tell you that this letter we received and that we requested at the adoption of last agenda and left for today's session this package of laws declared by the High Representative did not convince us at the Club of Serbian Delegates about the urgency of such a procedure. However, we are ready today to discuss these issues, of course, we want to discuss these issues point-by-point and to make decisions the way we in the Club of Serbian Delegates think, at this point, that it is more acceptable. I must warn this high house of another fact. I think that at the very least today and the most urgent procedure that stands before this house and the second home in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is the Election Law. However, when I look at all the preparations and deadlines we received by the third week of June 2001, I don't think we'll be able to respect that. For that reason, it seems to me that this argument has given us no further reason for urgency and I suggest that these laws enter the procedure by regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodić. We can't change the agenda at the 3rd session. He was adopted at the beginning of the 3rd session. That's what we're gonna do in the 4th session, and that's what we're supposed to do. Here you go, who's on the way. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u249	Dear members of the presidency, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat what has been said, and that is that we are not in our club sufficiently convinced that this memo that we have received provides the need for urgency, but I will say something else that is inadmissible to me and what is in this explanation. Indeed, the way to write this argument in itself, the least I can say, is strange, with some expressions like in normal countries etc. I simply ask myself as a delegate, if we are an abnormal country where we are an abnormal country and can the Council of Ministers say what it is that makes us an abnormal country. What I cannot accept as a delegate is the address of responsibility for the failure of the Council of Ministers to the BiH House of Peoples. That is to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is clearly stated on the first page, where the Council of Ministers has not done its part of the job on employment and other obligations he has promised voters, during the election campaign and is now trying to transfer the problem to the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm sorry that I can't address the Council of Ministers, because they're not here and it shows the degree of respect of this home, but of course it's a story for another occasion. So I'll repeat the key, I can't accept as a delegate that I've affected anything that the Council of Ministers hasn't done what he's committed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u250	The word is Ilija Šimić, delegate of the House of the Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u251	Dear colleagues, allow me not to use the microphone of the chairman to say briefly what I have, which I and as the leader of this session, namely, I am in charge and, by my deep personal conviction, I have found a sad fact that none of the Council of Ministers attends, and I have suggested that we get out of this situation so that we can meet with the Council of Ministers to write them, etc. I'm asking you today to support us, to empower us, and on the contrary, I wouldn't be in favour of interruption, just to show willingness to work, these are not abnormal conditions. We have their text on the urgency of these laws, and I respect that argument, and we as a home and as a Parliamentary Assembly will dissipate with the Council of Ministers for which they are not present. I respect all their jobs and all their obligations, they're certainly much bigger than we can, 50, maybe even think. We know, in fact, that they work both in a narrowed-down number of people and in a constitutional little strange concept, but I'm not going to explain it now and get into these issues. I ask and invite you to continue working, as the rest of you, thank the Bureau members for one responsible relationship with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and this House, and we will do so with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u252	I thank my esteemed colleague Šimić. A delegate called Dragutim Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u253	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I would like to decline the letter from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as an unacceptable way of communicating with this high house and to support the chairman, Mr Šimić, and the intention of the Kolegijum to agree on a way of co-operation and conduct with the Council of Ministers in the future. The relation of the Council of Ministers to the House and its views is not acceptable, but we as responsible people, who want to do our duty responsibly we will do our job today and we will do our job and thus show everyone whom the people have chosen directly or indirectly as they should be responsible for their duties. Also, I would like to point out that the High Representative as an indisputable authority in BiH and the Supreme Authority in BiH should have as little work as possible and will have if we do our job. I don't know what time I'm calling on us elected in the name of the people to take our responsibility and do our job, not to transfer it to representatives of the international community, who are welcome as friends here to help us solve our problems, but we all need to understand that they can't do and do our job. It's our obligation, and that's why I'm proposing that we continue the 3rd session today, but by really discussing the point by point rather than adopting laws like that, because I think there are laws that deserve regular procedure and it won't be any problem for them to adopt in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u254	Thank you, Mr. Ilić. Replica Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u255	Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to clarify that there is no confusion, I did not ask for the inclusion of the Election Law in this session, it is clear that it cannot, but only in the context of the urgency of the law that it is one of the most urgent and priority tasks of the Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u256	So it's not a replica, some kind of correction of the wrong quote. Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić answered for the discussion. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests, distinguished delegates, my perhaps even flaw is that I don't know how to speak but a direct one, but I think this is the only place that can reach a goal that should be pursued by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We are today finding out by not knowing which time the House session is attended by no one from the Council of Ministers of BiH. Is there anything more logical, if everyone agrees that this is necessary, we ask for a break, a break to call on them, we convince, rather than today, according to the Council of Representatives, to initiate an initiative to question the trust of the Council of Ministers, so let's see who's for the Council of Ministers to work in this way and who's for a change of attitude, there's no other way and there's no other legitimacy and can't be a goat and a penny and can't stay out of my party, if from another he can't. So, are we ready, face-to-face, to say that we're looking for a review of the Council of Ministers' responsibilities to that representative council elected by the Council of Ministers. I am, therefore, initiating the initiative to address one conclusion the relevant council elected by the Council of Ministers. To raise the question of responsibility. The second thing, it is unfortunate that the chairman of the BiH presidency, also, Mr Radišić, finds it appropriate to be here only when someone from a senior delegation from international representatives. Its place, too, is here to sit in this home, because I cannot understand that Mr. Radišić has more obligations than Mr. Belkić and Mr. Križanović who find time to sit at this home, how much time he calls them and I really want to discuss it. There can't be someone on temporary work in the Presidency or someone on temporary work at the Council of Ministers or someone on temporary work here and we promise the citizens that they'll get better. Not until everyone takes responsibility for what they do or don't do. So that's my position, my attitude towards the Council of Ministers and the relationship to the members of the predsjednitvo, but let's move on. I don't think we should block our part of the parliamentary debate. We can fake the public today. Well, let's say there's no Council of Ministers, and neither will we. My clear view of the Council of Ministers has been expressed, and I mean that today we need to take a step forward. I think that for a long time we have these legal projects, which every session will be in front of our eyes and we will discuss whether or not there is a degree of urgency, whether or not we will, I am today to declare this letter to the Council of Ministers and to go from law to law and to take the first step as the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Sculpture of BiH. You see, you can't because of the authority of the international community and the High Representative who did one piece of work in BiH, you can't because of the disapproval of the authorities we've chosen to postpone forever. I am so that we can take this first step and show that we are a serious home and that we want to discuss everything and that there are no unexplainable situations for the Members – delegates if they wish. So, I suggest from law to law that we plead and that today, we'll probably get to the point that part of the legal projects, I guess 52, if there's a mood, will be made. What I don't like, the trap we fell into in the last meeting, and now, that we want to take pictures of even a cooperative and a non-operational class, so for some time the Hrvat are not good, the other time the Srbin are not good, the Bošnjak are not good, it should be avoided, the parliamentary debate opened and the legal projects needed by the BiH citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u258	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Next debater is Mr. Ivo Živković. I remind you, dear colleagues, that we are at a debate on the laws of the High Representative on the urgency of these laws, therefore, of a kind of agenda and I am asking that we remain in this debate for three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u259	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable members of the Presidency, the honored guests, too, to briefly say a few of my thoughts on the problem that has arisen. First, to say that, for those who may not know it by chance, I do not defend the Council of Ministers because I am not their lawyer, but I accidentally needed one minister from the Council of Ministers this morning, and then I am informed that the extraordinary Council of Ministers session is going on right now as we sit here, which started a little earlier, so that this is one of the reasons why there is no one here from the Council of Ministers, but with some criticism given to the presence of the Council of Ministers at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it is a good thing, because I was also a representative in the past, I am saying that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, when it comes to the treatment of the Council of Ministers is better visited on their part, than this home, I am saying on the basis of my humble experience from the previous assembly. When it comes to these laws, given their urgency and the clarification that has come to us, I humbly suggest that we approach work from law to law, and I am pleased that, as far as I can see, there is political will and mood among most delegates and MPs in this House, and that is what is commendable and if we do so, probably arbitration and assistance of the international community, which is often, of certain and political parties and fellow MPs, understood as meddling in our internal affairs will be less, and we still have to say that in some situations where we can find a common political background, the international community has simply had to intervene, in order for this country in some situations to go forward. I, therefore, invite you and join you here with your views expressed. I am pleased that most MPs, who have spoken in this sense so far, I am not at any break, and I suggest that we continue to work from law to law, in accordance with the clarification that has come to us and the urgency of the adoption of these laws, and I believe that in the course of the third session, Mr Ministers from the Council of Ministers will join the work of our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u260	53 Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u261	Dear colleagues from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have all the conditions to decide on this agenda. The discussions arising from the Council of Ministers' pre-relationships are, of course, legitimate and, in my view, there is no excuse that none of the representatives of the Council of Ministers, and even if there is a Council of Ministers sitting here, are in principle required to regulate or through the conclusion proposed by the chairman of dom Ilija Šimić, that one conclusion of the College commits itself to see further with the Council of Ministers on Co-operation of the House, or that it may be resolved in accordance with Article 109, in which they have already shown a kind of mistrust with the Council of Ministers' approach, and I think that this issue should be fully separated from this agenda point, so that we are not concerned, at this point of the Council of Ministers, but that we are engaged in content. The content is such that in principle the adoption of these laws by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly is an exceptional test for the readiness of this calls on the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to launch the process in a positive sense. The most different formulations can be used to make something, or different procedures not to adopt something, but if we want both the Bosnian and the world public to know that we are able to lead this country, that helping impose laws by the international community will be less and less needed, then I need to adopt these laws, and even with an argument that already at the next session, those who are not satisfied with them would change. There's another important moment for me. Not the adoption of laws related to the symbols of this country, which are in principle represented by this country by the UN and we hope soon in the Council of Europe, is a very ugly connotation, so if you want, it can suggest very bad conclusions about certain political forces in this country. I think this is the moment when the House of Peoples, and the very House of Peoples, I would especially like it, even before the Representative's House, should make one such decision on the adoption of these laws, because I am convinced that this decision is in the interest of all three Bosnian Herzegovina peoples and in the interest of restoring the legitimacy of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Returning power to us. Until we pass this law, we have no authority over it, when we adopt it we have all the powers and the changes and the initiation of new legal or sublegal projects related to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. Mr Spahić, Turjačanin and Genjac came to the floor. I'm sorry to cut to last name only, but for rationality.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u263	54 Mr. Chairman, since I find it quite reasonable to withdraw the proposal on a break, because it came from the reaction to the Council of Ministers' non-constipation and to see that the full consent of all three clubs in the House of Peoples of BiH to deal directly with this job now, I suggest we move on to work, with what I would like to say, since you have asked for further clarification on the letter and some participants in the debate have focused it, which Mr. Matić referred to, I would like to say my position on this. I think the most accurate sentence in this letter is that any delay in the adoption of these laws, clearly... responsibility for not opening up jobs in the country. I think it's the most accurate sentence and regarding the fate of citizens and peoples and ethnicities and minorities in BiH, it's the key and responsibility of ours. It is not the key that we compete with the House of Representatives, and it is not the key that we are getting into trouble with the Presidency or with the Council of Ministers, and it is not the key in this event, which is called the process of reviewing and adopting laws, adopted by the High Representative, we are opening a broad debate and I would agree with Mr. Tokić here, we need to concentrate on these laws, and we agree that nothing can be adopted in the package, the law by law, it is quite illegal, with what I would like to say to this occasion, that, that the same rule of play in this parliamentary no... applies to each law individually, when we consider it. We need it, as I say, to unblock this House's constitutional position according to the fact that Mr Matić cited it in the last sentence. The practice so far in applying these laws, which we asked for last time, I insisted, is the role of the Council of Ministers, indicated the need for their innovation, which is not possible until the laws imposed are adopted in the procedure laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Order of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For me, it's two arguments, which are primary. Those who want to change the situation and political relations in BiH need a deblocrat process, and that is why today we have the opportunity to adopt these laws, open up a space for a normal constitutional procedure in the country to regulate relations as is the case with the newer mocolities in BiH. So, the primary reasons are internal reasons, and, of course, the external reasons for the adoption of the law, which is why I would tell you that I am withdrawing my proposal once more, and I suggest to Mr Šimić that if there is no fundamental debate on the letter and the need, together with the Kolegija, he recommends that these laws be adopted, or in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Spahić. Mr. Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u265	Dear fellow delegates, the esteemed Presidency, I would also now support this withdrawal, as far as I understand Mr Spahić, that the House of Peoples is regularly continuing its work, regardless of... the Lords of the Council of Ministers, for the simple reason that in this way we are giving ourselves a specific weight that they do not even give to our own here not to attend. It's the first moment. The second moment, the best relationship of the House to this House, the Ministerial Council's pardon to this people's home, is this letter, that is, an explanation that we asked about the urgency of adopting these laws. Here it is called for a meeting of the Council of Ministers of 3 months of age. We had this session on the 3rd at the beginning, I think it's been about 20 days. They didn't find, for 55, that neither the House of Nations initiative, any further arguments about the urgency of the ambush and that we were given from such a session, not to mention one valid explanation. I'm not going in, not to say... which gentlemen from my club have repeated which are quite vague and not precise, when it comes to the urgency of the job itself. What I want to repeat here is, that's what my colleague Špirić said. I thank you here, gentlemen of the BiH presidency from the ranks of the Bosniak and Croatian people, and I wish that in this protest note, which will be addressed to the Council of Ministers in the text of such a note, a guide to the current, BiH Presidency, who has not found fit from the constitution of this home to the day of today to remind him of this home and, at least, to show him due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u266	Thank you, Mr. Turjačanin. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u267	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the presidency, esteemed guests, it's a very clear thing here that we don't blur things out. The Council of Ministers has a lot to do, a lot of obligations, a lot of duties, but as far as these laws are concerned, the Council of Ministers has done its job. As far as these laws are concerned, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, has not finished its work. There is no longer any need for any explanation, the explanation gives life, the laws that live and from this aspect these laws are the most urgent, precisely, for the Parliamentary Assembly, because they are waiting for adoption at the Parliamentary Assembly and I think there are all reasons, there are business procedures, there are all arguments and interests for that, especially since it is up to us, at the Parliamentary Assembly, at the home of the people, I am interested first in whether the College sees the urgency and importance of these laws and whether the College has a clear view on the need to consider and adopt these laws, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u269	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed presidency, colleagues, I was encouraged at our last 3rd session, not the last one, but the one we interrupted, the adoption of one, which seemed to me to be a wise conclusion then, which is to interrupt the session, so that we could continue the work of the 3rd session with these laws, which we didn't accept for one reason only. Then we did not accept it because we asked for clarification on the need for an emergency procedure for these laws by the Council of Ministers. We've got that clarification, gentlemen. In the clarification, they write very often the reasons why the Council of Ministers feels that these laws, which need to be passed by emergency procedure, and we all, sitting in these benches for several years, know very well when these laws have long gone into parliamentary procedures, that in 56 of these procedures we have not brought and forced the High Representative to bring them and I ask you, that we bring these laws today to the continuation of this session, to take responsibility for the legislation in this country, because everything else, objectively, will be interpreted by me as being rightful as obstruction. That is why, I am also absolutely standing at the position that, practically, our colleague with the Council of Ministers, must hold an emergency meeting and agree on the methodology of the work and co-operation of the Council of Ministers and of this House, when it comes to sitting and holding that my criticism stands in the same way with the Council of Ministers, which one of the representatives of the Council of Ministers as it says in our Rules of Procedure is not present here, because I remind myself of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure decidently state that the Council of Ministers does not have to be fully present, but a representative of the Council of Ministers must be present at the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Divković. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're narrowing down the debate and we're going to get to the point of the agenda that we're discussing - laws. It doesn't matter. There's other things going on around here. As a home, are we prepared to respect our own Rules of Procedure, point (c) where it is said that the Council of Ministers is required, through its representative, therefore, that people do not have to attend directly and give the interpretation of the law. Now I'm going to tell you my vision of what the Council of Ministers is not present when it comes to these laws. The Council of Ministers served only as a legal intermediary to introduce the laws into parliamentary procedure and acted as an OHR information technical centre. If people know the names of the laws they sent us, I'll be demissioning. That's not good for BiH. I look at them as the debate moves away, so those who have members of the Council of Ministers slowly relax them and release responsibility for what they do or what they do wrong. We have two memos from the Council of Ministers from the same session. You know, gentlemen, why there are no members of the Minstar Council today, because even those unfortunates can't agree. That's why they're gone, because how is it possible for us to get one letter from another session and another letter from another session, and when we interrupted the meetings of the House of Peoples and asked for a statement from the Council of Ministers and not a love letter? I do not dispute that there is urgency, I will say what I think about the laws, but I will make it clear and loud to say what I think about the work of the BiH authorities. Well, it can't be a worse economic situation than it is, and we realize that people don't work, they don't work or they don't want to work, so now we say they have a lot of work to do, and here it tells us this is urgent and urgent. I don't know who's messing with who here. Whether we're ready or not, we're not ready for all the organs to take part in their responsibility. I have made my proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that delegates should be signed and we should launch the initiative. The lion will pass or it won't, it's less important, but it shows whether we have the strength to force the executive power to work. I think that this question and address to the House of Nations is essentially the political ambience of the Council of Ministers, which should not have opened another debate. I don't have any other interpretations, and I don't allow two memos from the same session. So, the Council of Ministers, by order of the House of Peoples, did not sit 57, and it has to be determined, unless you read this differently and, therefore, it is my active position and I will ask that the delegates who support it be heard and that we go into procedure, related to the laws of what our business is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. I thought no one was answering, but Dr. Genjac is picking up and he's entitled to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u273	I welcome the members of the Council who have just arrived and therefore we have removed the key interference for the adoption of these laws. So today we're going to have passed laws, but I want to add to my question that I asked. At the beginning of this session, we had the conclusion that we would continue the session the moment we received the Council of Ministers' position. We received the position of the Council of Ministers in 14.5, I asked the College for what the meeting of the House of Nations was scheduled today, when the conclusion was that the Council of Ministers held that the session would be scheduled. So, two questions for the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u274	I thank Mr. Halid Genjac. I see no one's answering again. It would be good to answer Dr. Genjac's question, but I think the answer is known in advance. There was simply no opportunity with terms and obligations, one home, another home, other obligations and the College, etc. It can be interpreted one way or another, but that's just the way it is. I'm asking Mr Spahić, if it's not important that we don't open the rapture any further than we do to get to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u275	I would like to say, Mr. Šimić, first of all, that the representatives of the Council of Ministers have arrived and that we have allowed them to come to work during the discussion. It is a very important fact and changes what I would say, especially as Mr. Ivan Knežević drew attention to their current cabinet session at the moment, I think it should be appreciated. Second, there are no formal legal obstacles to this matter. I asked last time to make a statement about the laws point-by-point. I repeat, the letter delivered by Mr Matić is extremely correct. I would personally sign that, and I believe that with full integrity, he has turned his attention to the MPs for internal reasons, more than external needs, to approach this business. I suggest that today we do not conclude anything in line with what Mr Špirić said, perhaps quite the opposite that it is necessary to go to the preparation of a new law in the Council of Ministers that would create it with effective executive authorities and give them more opportunities to work operationally than this blockade that we and our system in the interests of citizens and those who are concerned. 58 I suggest that we not open any further debate, we don't ask the question when it's scheduled and we approach the business, what was the obligation, because this is a continuation of the session and we can't open other questions beyond what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u276	I thank Mr Spahić. We suggest we no longer discuss it. Incorrect quote, I have to give business to Mr. Špirić. Otherwise, the public has done their part, if not the public, I, of course, welcome the members of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, as time goes by, things are getting clearer. We have representatives of the Council of Ministers and I'm interested, at the request of the House of Peoples. So, I ask the Council of Ministers to hold a Council of Ministers meeting from which question did the letter we received arise? Is it or isn't it? Well, it's an incorrect quote, you said we have a Council of Ministers and we can cross over. Everyone did well, when they showed up they did well. I'm just saying, I'm curious to know if it was a session after our break-up that resulted in the letter we got. I have information that it is not gentlemen and therefore I ask this question not because I am closer or further members of the Council of Ministers than you. I pray, I have the right to initiative, and it is the right of Mr. Ibro Spahić to support it or not as a delegate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u278	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate. We're moving on to a statement by article 100 on laws. You've all asked us to follow the laws in order as they were in the past, in the last agenda. Allow me, I will read one law at a time, and we will plead whether we accept that this law is being considered by article 100. Here you go, Mr. Špirić, there are no breaks, we keep working.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u279	I beg you, there's no need to be nervous, which speed, here's the law ahead of us. We'll tell you what we think about laws. I am Mr. Chairman, in accordance with Rules of Procedure, Article 109, point 1, I have launched the initiative, and I am asking that we make a statement about it. She'll get most of it or she won't, please, no problem at all. I ask you to initiate the initiative, what fate it will be, it speaks of our attitude towards the executive bodies.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u280	Gentlemen, I agree with my colleague Špirić absolutely. There's no anxiety, no need to be nervous. We should at the same time conclude, my colleagues, that our rules of procedure are not very explicit and sharp at some of your points, so the position of the 3rd member to whom counterpart Špirić is called says that the chairman is obliged to send this initiative to the BiH Presidency and the Council of 59 BiH ministers, and that is all he says in paragraph 3. I'll do the same to my colleague Špirić. It's my interpretation, and I think I'm entitled to it because it doesn't say otherwise in the Rules of Procedure. I call upon you to plead. Mr. Genjac. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u281	I asked if the College had a unique view that these laws are being considered under Article 100. Rules of Procedure, i.e. by emergency procedure. What's the position of the College? Does the College have a unique position and please, if you can answer me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u282	I could answer you, but I think the College would prejudge in this case the College will demonstrate either fortunately or unfortunately what its consent is. Since we're reading ourselves at this point about the position of the College, that's clear. At times when such an answer makes sense and if you don't influence the further course of our work, then I would answer you, this moment, I invite you all to vote together so you can see what the College is. I call on you to vote on the BiH flag law proposal, whether we accept it under Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. Please, who's in favor of choosing to plead? Has anyone voted against or abstentioned? I've seen that it's not, but I'm obliged to ask that. I konstatirati that it has been unanimously accepted that we are discussing the Law on the flag of BiH as an emergency procedure. I will now make one conclusion again to the lack of rigour of our Rules of Procedure. This is what we have actually adopted, because there is no amendment debate, there is no possibility, but that is not said in the Rules of Procedure. I think here are our experts, professional services, and we'll see, we're not told to move on. I call on you to make a statement on the proposal for a BiH coat of arms law, whether or not we also treat it according to Article 100. Who's in? It's unanimous again. I figure we're also, except for the 100. And we passed this law, so Bosnia and Herzegovina has this law adopted by this home. Next is the Bill of State Anthem of BiH I invite you who is in favour, to accept this law too? Unanimously, I thank you very much and this law has been passed. Ad.4. Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of BiH Who is for? It's unanimous again, and I thank you very much. 60 Ad.5. Proposal for a law on the Court of Justice of BiH I call on you to vote. Who's in? - Nine's for it. Who's against it? - 5 is against it. An entity vote is not necessary. It's clear here we have, we don't have the entity's consent, and I find that this law is not accepted for debate under Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. Further procedures are business and political if allowed to say so. Ad.6. Proposal for a law on the BiH State Border Service I invite you to come forward. Mr. Tokić, please vote, it's the BiH State Border Service. Unanimity. I thank you, the State Border Service Act has been passed. Ad.7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Law – excuse me then to agree, I will read about what law it is. I have a paper in front of me that I don't declare official, but I will read what I have. Ad.7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act Who is for? - Nine for it. Who is it? - 5 is against it. I find that we have not adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Customs Policy of BiH and is going to agree. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on administrative fees and tariffs of administrative fee Ko is in favour, to adopt this law in accordance with the procedure of Article 100. - Nine for it. Who's against it? - 4 against - 5 is against. And this law goes into business procedure. Ad.9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH What is it for the adoption of this law, under Article 100, of course, it is always about Article 100? - Nine for it. Who's against it? - 5 is against it. Same follow-up business procedure. Ad.10. Proposal for a Standardisation Act for BiH Who is for Article 100? Unanimity. I agree that we adopted the Bill on Standardisation of BiH 61 Ad.11. Proposal for a Law on the Measurement of BiH Who is for this, Article 100. Unanimity. Thank you. We've passed the Measurement Act. Ad.12. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute for Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property of BiH. Who's for that by Article 100? Should we accept the treatment of this law and also pass the law? I find that we have passed the bill, etc. Ad.13. Proposal for a law on the units of measurement of BiH Who is it to treat him according to Article 100? Unanimously, we passed the Law on Units of Measurement of BiH. Ad.14. Proposal for a law on accreditation of BiH Who is it that, under article 100, we accept the examination of this law? We unanimously accepted it by article 100. So, you passed the law. Ad.15. Proposal for a law establishing the BiH Accreditation Institute Who is it to accept the procedure of this law under article 100? - Nine's in. Who's against it? - 5 is against it. I realize we haven't passed the law and it's the last law; Ad.16. Proposal for a law on the property of the BiH Employment Office Who is it that we accept this law, to consider it by Article 100? Unanimity. This is how we adopted the Bill on Property of the BiH Employment Institute. Dear colleagues. Wait a minute, we're having a little consultation right now. We have a bit of a different view of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. This part of the job is over and there's no need for any explanation. My colleagues, please take your seats. Can we move on? Let's move on. We still have to discuss parliamentary issues and initiatives from the 3rd session. Agents' questions and initiatives, gospodin Spahić, can we continue to work? kolega Spahić, this is the third time in 30 seconds, I'd have the right to remove you, but I won't since it's in a short time. I think Mr. Genjac is right, but he didn't mean it, and I thank him for not insisting. 62 I call upon you, it is my fault for a little not discipline. I invite you to keep working. We still have questions and initiatives to discuss from the 3rd session. So far, issues and initiatives have been passed on to the Council of Ministers. I think Mr. Spahić got one answer. The other answers will be urigated for the next seven days. I think you got that in writing, too. I ask Mr Spahić is he satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u283	Mr. Chairman, I don't mean to take you away from your post, you have a very good position. Will you listen to what I'm saying? It's very important that you listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u284	We're listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u285	Thank you very much. Given the position of the speaker, I respect that, too, so I would like you to respect the position of those who address you. I would like to say that the Council of Ministers has answered my question, which referred to the Council of Ministers' request to go public and to a parliamentary procedure with a strategy on BiH's economic development from 2000 to 2004. The Council of Ministers answered my question correctly, with what I would like to say is that, in a situation where Mr Belkić, as a member of the Presidency, as well as Mr Križanović, in recent statements argue that BiH is in front of bankruptcy and talk about the total economic and social crisis in BiH, representatives of the Council including President Matić. That answer doesn't satisfy me for the following reasons. My question was precisely to the Council of Ministers. First, the Council of Ministers will do the job by respecting the parliamentary procedure to deliver the document that was made last October 2000. The document is named March 15th, or something on March 21st 2001, and its title is the 2000-2004 Strategy, which is a retroactive strategy. Secondly, the document is the result of a parliamentary debate in the House of Representatives and the request of this MP and delegate together with all other MPs in both homes and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. Two conclusions were made. First, that the Council of Ministers is still in its previous session, and this has taken over, it is correct, from this council of ministers, the document ends the paper and exits both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That the chairman of the 63 Council of Ministers should go out with the relevant ministers, therefore, with an interminist position, in which he would present the basic strategic direction of development of the BiH economic in the medium term. We received the answer that this document is in the debate in international NGOs and I got it online, because I run an NGO, but I didn't get it as an MP. I don't see any reason why this document shouldn't be under one quite regular procedure from November to May o.g. presented to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So, I ask that Mr Šimić, in connection with the conclusion of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the House of the Peoples of the Last Call and the confirmed will of this people, be held a joint session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, both at home, at which this strategic document will be discussed. Mr Matić, as prime minister, addresses home, delivers the document and, of course, we get a clear overview of economic reforms and economic legislation proposals for what is called leaving the economic and social crisis, with some very clear vision of how to deal with these processes. So, with regard to the response I received from the Council of Ministers, I remind myself, I do not ask to make a statement again, because I think it is completely pointless, because at his first session, he accepted this House of Nations, to maintain this rhythm in which the Council of Ministers, to deliver this document to competent committees on economic issues, foreign trade, international policy, to all committees declared responsible, to put this document in parliamentary procedure and to finally, on the Council of Ministers' initiative, thanks to the facts, because it has been working for more than two years, that paper puts the public’s insight into these issues and to concentrate the attention of both of our homes. I think the time has matured and I think it only confirms the role of both the home and the Council of Ministers. So you can't be satisfied with the fact that, in the coming time, there is a prospect of announcing the discussion of this document. I ask that this document, since it has been held in public debate with entity governments, is in response, since it has been discussed in NGOs, finally put before the Council of Ministers to dissipate our home and the House of Representatives and that we have a job that we have already agreed on for two years. That's all I want to point out. I ask that this be done, because it is not the authority of one question, but the request of two homes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u286	I thank Mr Spahić. You are under the Rules of Procedure, and you certainly know how to deliver this initiative, too, in writing. You had a new initiative now. Let's move on. Mr Špirić answered the words and I think Mr Jusufović called.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask a few questions at different addresses of BiH's joint institutions and my question would first be the following. 64 From the means of public information, messages are coming about a recent visit by the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesić BiH. Since statements by Mr. Mesić, Račan, and others, the type of declaration that it is necessary to abolish RS, are not on the line of respect for the BiH Constitution and territorial organisation, nor the Dayton Peace Agreement. I ask the following questions regarding an announced visit to the BiH presidency and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Foreign Ministry. Who's organizing the visit? Who are the hosts? Is there going to be a visit? What platform is there going to be on? Will the platform be known to the MPs of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly prior to their visit? What do RS representatives in the joint bodies of BiH think of the announced visit? Would the leadership of any complex Western European states or the United States receive a visit from a statesman who advocates the abolition of any of their alliances? I assure you that the same question would be asked if such rhetoric had been applied to SRJ. I don't think BiH's friends are the ones who don't recognise its constitutional arrangement and that BiH's leadership would have to be serious and send very different notes to those who are not in favour of applying the BiH Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Second question. The evasive and exiled Srbin from the Republic of Croatia who are resident in Yugoslavia and the RS have asked me to swear the next issue. Some 400,000 would return to Croatia and accept it as their home country, if Croatia were cantonally organised, or rather a state of the region and guaranteed the right of a constituent people. So they ask, is it possible to launch such an initiative in any way? Third question. From the BiH Audit Bureau, I demand an answer to the question as far as the BiH Foreign Ministry's business audit came in 2000, and what kind of income structure was collected on the basis of passports. How much has it been printed? How much has been destroyed? How many DKPs took a passport directly from the press and the like. Different information is being received in the public domain, which is why I ask the competent authority, the competent audit institution, to complete the audit report as soon as possible, and that the audit report will be given to MPs – delegates of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u288	Thank you. Munib Jusufović answered. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u289	Mr. Chairman, respected members of the presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, my question concerns the following: 65 It is known that BiH and the Republic of Croatia have signed an agreement on border crossings. In fact, there was confusion in the public, and as Mr Špirić says he has an initiative of 400,000, I don't know where he collects them from, when there are about 50-60,000 in RS, but it's good, it's an initiative. It is also from Brcko District initiative that Mr. Lagumdžija as the foreign minister who signed an agreement with the Republic of Croatia in public is either wrong were listed or possibly something unsaid, mentions entity border crossings and this Federation seems to me to be 4-5 border crossings with, how can I say, a special treatment that has the same in RS seems to me to be 3 border crossings. However, the Brcko District is not mentioned anywhere, and by respecting the specifics and status of the Brcko District, above all on its personality, and on the other hand, which is precisely the piece of the country under direct sovereignty and structure, i.e. by the authority of BiH, the question arises, if someone can give from the Council of Ministers today. What is the fate of the border crossing, according to them, it is clear to me that we understand ourselves by the arbitration decision and the Statute is clear, but I am surprised that at least the Council of Ministers does not care, or forgets that one piece of land under the direct authority of the BiH central authorities. So I'm interested in what fate is, by them, the mustache of the border crossing district? Is it presupposed to be high-tariff goods, or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u290	Mr. Ibro Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u291	Mr. Chairman of two precise questions. There are members of the Bureau here. I would like to draw attention to the question that I have raised when the BiH Presidency will appoint a national co-ordinator for the implementation of the Stability Pact in South East Europe, and I would like to ask that this question be answered by the appointment of the Stability Pact coordinator, because it is about that our experience from the working tables and what my personal experience is in the implementation of certain projects, related to human rights and democratisation, testifys to the necessity of one person, one service, one organisation, which will focus BiH as a country of full interest, that what was started in Sarajevo will be realised firstly. The second reason that matters is that of 1.7. Bosnia and Herzegovina takes over co-chairing with the second working table on economic relations in the region and integration. I think it is really necessary for the BiH House of Peoples, as well as the House of Representatives, to have full information on what kind of political, economical, and however you want a co-ordinating role BiH is willing to play as a country that has a project, what it wants to do as co-chair. I underline that this is a responsibility at this time, possibly by the Council of Ministers and the relevant ministries, but outside it is the responsibility of our home as well as the House of Representatives and the Co-ordination Presidency in this area. We have adopted a resolution that we have pledged to have the Presidency and the Council of Ministers bear in mind every six 66 months about the implementation of projects in this area. It is a matter relating to the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. I would also ask the House of People to provide the College with information on the implementation of decisions and initiatives and projects that BiH has in all three working tables, as this is the key in some way to consolidate in this area. The second issue of the BiH presidency stems from the information we have on the state of the foreign ministry in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have received this information when it comes to the human situation, when it comes to the material situation, when it comes to the organisation of this MIP, within the very structure of the ministry and about the DKPs in the world. Since this is the direct authority of the BiH presidency and members of the presidency, together with the Foreign Ministry, in accordance with the Constitution and with the law, and today I will have the agenda and the addition of powers within the foreign ministry. I ask that the foreign minister Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija address this home and probably another home, but it is the second home first and to notify officially about the situation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to receive accurate information from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina on what steps they have taken to change the ambassadors and the corresponding representatives of the DKP because it is in exclusive jurisdiction, I underline the presidency. The task would, in my deep conviction, be realised, in line with the announced interest that BiH concentrates its attention on economic co-operation and on a different profile of the DKP. These two questions referred to the Presidency, I would like to conclude with the following request. Delegates of this house and even MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should, of course, have information on which they are inaugurating multiple times, when it comes to foreign policy management by the Presidency and by the foreign ministry, which should necessarily be kept in the course, as it would say, of the foreign-political committee of one and the other home. I want, quite clearly, to launch the initiative, and I have prepared it in writing, just so you know what it is, I believe that the Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade Commission must have the possibility that before the representatives of the DKP go abroad to find themselves on a kind of polling committee in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples of BiH, in order to ensure a relationship between Parliament, as every country on the globe has, whether it is a congress or a parliament opportunity to know who it is in the world. I think it would strengthen BiH's positions and interests in the world. And finally, yesterday, we had an opportunity to monitor the visit of members of the presidency and the minister of foreign affairs of the SRJ. For me, it is very important that we also receive appropriate information today or at the next session of the Bureau and Mr Lagumdžija, given that it is a neighbor for whom 67 of us are, of course, as interested in the Republic of Croatia, and I ask that we receive this information in an appropriate manner, pain or in writing, but as soon as possible, because it is highly developed, I would say to BiH's interests to address some issues related to our mutual relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u292	Thank you, Mr Spahić. I don't see that, and there's Mr. Ilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u293	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, or delegates, I would like to have someone here to give me an answer to the Council of Ministers and it reads. Do the ministers in the Council of Ministers represent all three constituent peoples in BiH and all its citizens or just their peoples or their parties, or political options? The reason for me to post such a question is, the latest events, when proposals and demands to change BiH's constitutional-first structure are increasingly heard from neighbouring countries, when some ministers have completely conflicting entities about it. Some ministers, including Mr Zubak, are demanding the abolition of the RS entity, which means they deny the constitutional order of BiH and the Dayton Peace Accords. Is Mr Zubak representing both a million and 400,000 people of the Serb entity and a Serb people? Is the foreign ministry, as mildly reacting if and for what such a mild reaction would have been to abolish the Federation or that BiH is defined differently as it is, according to the Constitution. So, I think it's high time, given the other objections we've sent here to the Council of Ministers, that this House initiates an initiative to question the responsibilities and behaviour of individual ministers. Because we sincerely support the constitutional and legal order in BiH, we support all changes being made in a constitutionally prescribed manner and we absolutely support and ask for the Dayton Peace Agreement to be implemented in all its segments. Only so can we, as responsible people, convince our citizens that BiH is their country and that BiH has a future and that BiH's future is in Europe. Therefore, I would ask that someone, if qualified, of the Council of Ministers present to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković, is it a question or initiative? These are questions and initiatives, hard to be. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u295	Very briefly, I know this is not a practice and I thank the chairman for giving me his word that a comment is actually being made on the delegate issues. You said that, Mr. Ilić said that Mr. Zubak as Minister at the Council of Minsitarians specifically requested the removal of the RS entity which I was denied here. Mr. Zubak said the following. On the occasion of the ruthless events in 68 Trebinj and Banja Luka, which we had here a very serious session of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and brought one resolution and thank Bog it was. So many parties reacted, many individuals among them and Mr Zubak and he in this sense, therefore, did not ask for the RS to be abolished, but insisted
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u296	Comrade Živković, that's already an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u297	That RS cannot solve these insurance problems, etc. what happened then to transfer its powers to the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-04-25-0.u298	The answer will, however, be given to the delegate by the one to whom the question is addressed. There are no more questions and initiatives that I see registered for questions and initiatives, and I remind you that there is one part of the question left from our second session that the Council of Ministers has not answered and we, if you agree, and we have the right to undertake to answer the questions in the next seven days, and to the questions asked today in the business procedure, which is, as far as I know, 15 days. It also refers to the Bureau under Rule 122 of our Rules of Procedure, asking for answers, there are a number of questions. The questions asked today, here are the gentlemen who have expressed their willingness to answer, and with their presence they have demonstrated it. With this, we dear colleagues have completed the work of 3. Sit down. I'm taking a 15-minute break and we'll continue the 4th session. Thank you very much. The seat was closed at 11.35.
