ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u299	My fellow guests, I am opening the fourth regular session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome you all very much. So this is the fourth session open. Before we move to the agenda, allow me to realize that we have a quality quorum, so, respected colleagues, I repeat, before we move to the agenda, I find that we have a quality quorum. He's just Mr. Niko Sušac and he's not present for today's session. All 14 other envoys are here. You're on the agenda, but I'm, uh, I'm asking you to make a change. In fact, on the second place of today's agenda, I'm going to propose that we appoint members of the House of Peoples's delegation, and that's because at three o'clock, a parliamentary delegation will be established, so, and the House of Peoples has done so. I will now invite you to discuss the agenda. You've got your agenda. I suggest one change which I have already said to the second place i.e. Before the law comes the election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's delegation to the organisation, etc. These four you know. Here's who wants to discuss the agenda. Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u300	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, I would like to suggest that in the agenda of the 4th session, by emergency procedure in accordance with Articles 99 and 100. Rules of Procedure, classify the point of the draft electoral law. Advantage and urgency of the need to urgently adopt this law, I don't think we need too much explanation, because last week's activities and the arrival of Mr. Šurjan, when it is clearly stated that, unless we meet the conditions, we do not adopt this law, which is one of the key conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, that we should then question this proposal. But without it, I believe that the time has come for us to have our own electoral law and to implement the elections according to our law, and not according to some provisional regulations, as we have so far had for intervention and in the organisation of the international community, or the OSCE. So I would ask you to accept that we put this item on the agenda, and I would ask Mr Špirić to explain the suggestions on behalf of our club, as an authorised promoter. Thank you very much. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u301	I thank Mr. Ilić. Who's on the phone? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u302	I suggest that the next item of the agenda be included in the agenda of the 4th session. Determining the responsibility of representatives of joint bodies to worsen the political and security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The resolution, which characterised the political and security situation at the very least as bad, was voted at the last Plenary session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. At that time, several specific, but also other cases affecting such a situation were presented. Out of sadness, the RS government has taken a number of concrete moves to determine responsibility for the events that took place in RS, while neither the Federation of BiH government nor the Council of Ministers nor the Presidency have done anything practical about the events that took place in the Federation of BiH. A number of representatives of the joint bodies were all responsible for the poor political and security situation, tried to transfer to RS, and we also had calls from the Council of Ministers for the abolition, or disappearance of RS. To make the irony bigger, we've had such calls from the Minister of Human Rights. Also, we had a statement that one of the signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the neighbouring country, had made malts of not acting in the direction of abolishing one of the entities in BiH, on which the BiH Foreign Ministry did not find the need to be sufficiently strong and sufficiently adverted with an appropriate prosthetic note. If we want Serbian people to feel this Council of Ministers as their own, then such things are practically and inadmissible. The third reason why I think this point should be placed on the agenda is the fact that the situation in the Federation is no better than it is worse than in the RS, that the Croatian component is considered to be SFOR and that the BiH presidency and the Council of Ministers have no insight in the entire BiH area, nor the Government and the Federation Presidency, which is one part of the country and most of the people outside BiH's constitutional and legal structure. I am asking here, do we have the right as delegates in Parliament to be informed about these issues, whether we and the people have the right to know more about these issues and what it is and who has responded in this direction or has taken adequate steps. With this in mind, and of course a series of arguments put forward last time at the Plenary Session, I'm asking for inclusion in the agenda of the dots. Determining the responsibility of representatives of joint bodies to worsen the political and security situation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Ivanković answered. We're discussing the agenda. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u304	Dear colleagues, you are likely to know that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been included in the procedure Election Law of the Council of Ministers and Election Law, Proposer Mariofil Ljubić, and here we have received the Proposal for an Election Law, Proposer of Envoy Nikola Špirić, so I suggest that we put all three of these laws into the regular procedure of considering the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u306	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, and esteemed and respected guests, I have participated in conjecturing the agenda with my colleagues and, therefore, I remain in that this agenda should be adopted, but given Mr Šurjan's special visit, where it is clearly said that BiH's electoral law should be adopted as far as June 22nd. Conscious of the boredom and time and respect of the Rules of Procedure of one and the other home, I am with a group of delegates from the order of the Serb people in accordance with Article 76. 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, asked for a brief and urgent procedure to discuss BiH's Electoral Law. I don't think there's a more hypocritical legal project for BiH than the Electoral Law itself, and I want to make it clear that we used the OSCE's and the Expert Group's initial positions in this proposal, and this is a legal project that was highly agreed on by the Representative Council, and I think that after that, the Group of Experts worked and agreed. I ask that this legislative project enter into the short process and emergency procedure so that we can all together, of course, by making the maximum effort to get to the permanent electoral law. I do not know what procedure is related to the election law of the Council of Ministers and HDZ, which was on the agenda at the last session of the Representative's Council and I think it is necessary to respect business and I have no objection to these legal projects being in the same package with this law by emergency procedure but what bothers me and what is not good and what unfortunately says that we may not be able to reach the scheduled deadline until the permanent election law is the version of the Council of Ministers' Election Law. We are the only country in the world, the only one by which the executive body proposing a legal project offers an alternative. It's unseen so far. Alternatively, I have the impression that the election law should not be adopted and that some other changes should wait, let's say that the harmonisation of the entity's constitution with the BiH Constitution etc. I think that we election law, regardless of all shortcomings, should be adopted by June 22nd, and that all amendments to the electoral law and its subsequent alignment with any corrections and changes to the Constitution can be adopted by the same procedure as the legal project we adopted at the 3rd session. I ask that we all offer maximum goodwill, mutual tolerance to come to this election project.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Genjac. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u308	Dear colleagues, I have one business intervention and suggestions. Since we have adopted a permanent Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of People and the House of Representatives, it is understandable that during this transitional period there are certain wanderings, but it would be good and collective to apply a literal and decadent termology of the Rules of Procedure. Which means more than that, there are no more drafts of the law, no more drafts of the law. There's first reading and second reading. I think we'll agree here and it would be very useful and easier to understand. That's one thing. The second question, while respecting the need and urgency of the adoption of the Electoral Law, I must, however, establish some facts that are so. As far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, we do not have a proposal for an Electoral Law, as the Council of Ministers adopted alternatives. There's no suggestion with alternatives. On the other hand, we have, in addition to this alternative document, two more texts of the same issue of the Election Law. We have a procedure in our Rules of Procedure under Article 99 and Article 100. The 100th procedure would be appropriate to the urgency and need of the Electoral Law, however, the procedure laid down in Article 100 of the Treaty, when the draft law, the high degree of urgency, or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can only be adopted or rejected as a whole and on the other hand, there is no possibility of making amendments in this situation. Since the Electoral Law, an extremely complex problem, is that the Electoral Law, after the Constitution, is the second most important legal document for each country, I think we need here, respecting the urgency of adopting procedure 99. In other words, the fact that the Council of Minsitare's proposal contains alternatives excludes the possibility of being adopted in accordance with the procedure of Article 100. The very fact that there are three versions of the electoral law excludes the procedure under Article 100. With that in mind, I am fully in favour and I support the proposal to be in accordance with Article 99. So, according to emergency and shortened procedures, they introduce electoral laws at today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u310	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Peoples, I ask that, as part of the agenda, before the delegates' questions, I now do not know... to include the point of amendments to the Committee of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, since I have resigned from the Commission's membership, the Constitutional-First Commission of the House of Nations, because several sessions ago, which... I am asking to now be adopted and adequately filled out by that commission. At the same time, he would be involved in the debate, concerning the procedure of the Electoral Law. I agree with Mr. Genjac, that this law should be classified under this procedure, and I don't think it bothers us to accept anything... that he said in the ordinary procedure. You know what this is about? The emergency procedure involves the danger of an emergency and falling. We all know that the deadline is the 22nd deadline for the adoption of the Electoral Law and according to this dynamic, the regular procedure opens us up a greater possibility of agreeing, the arrangements for the text of the Electoral Law, which will be acceptable, and I hope that this will be a consensus in the adoption of the Electoral Law. On those issues on which there is a consensus, I think you should put it in the Electoral Law. There are no existing solutions that need to simply be applied to the current solutions and in a certain way 5 revasing these agings. I apologize for this sentence, it is purely my position to prepare for the eternal attempts to take firm positions in proposing new laws. So we have also talked to Mr. Šurijan about this law and he has accepted such an approach to come by consensus, and everything that is not consensus, the current solutions of the electoral process that we have had so far, which no one would be embraced that some provisions, certain legal or constitutional acts, will be changed over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić's correction. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a business possibility today just to put the Electoral Law, which is in line with the Rules of Procedure. In order for the HDZ Election Law, which was submitted to the Representative Council, one of the delegates must stand behind it. In order for the Council of Ministers' law to be an ally basis, there must be no alternative, and we have one legal proposal in line with the Rules of Procedure, which is what Mr Genjac is talking about, and this is the proposal of delegate Nikola Špirić with a group of delegates and that we do not end up... I am for all the laws to go according to a shortened procedure for the deadline, because there is no possibility, respecting the Rules of Procedure by 22 June in the ordinary procedure of reaching the Election Law. So today we only have one legal and legitimate proposal. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u313	Ivo Divković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u314	I actually have one question. Where does the document say that the only law that goes without alternatives is legitimate? Where does that say?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u315	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? This is Mr. Genjac, about the agenda, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u316	That my colleague Špirić and I understand each other a little better. Under article 100, we can't discuss any laws, that's clear. According to article 99, we can't have any laws at today's session. For what? Because Article 99 implies the commission phase of each law and procedure to be shortened. So, only procedures and deadlines are shortened, but it also implies a commission phase. Therefore, all the laws on the commission must, and afterwards, be at the plenary stage, that is, the parliamentary stage. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u317	Thank you very much. Špirić again, then Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u318	Me and Mr. Genjac understand each other well. I insist on it. It says here, in accordance with Article 76. The Rules of Procedure, meaning the delegate can launch the initiative, and in accordance with Rules of Procedure 99, where he insists on a shortened procedure. So today, a delegate initiative is being adopted that this electoral law is just passing that procedure. So we understand each other and it's the only law that can go according to this procedure. If strictly Rules of Procedure apply.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u320	Mr. Chairman, since it is quite clear that now from this debate Spiric-Špirić-Genjac it is accepted that it is not at all a matter of discussing your election law at this session today. When you're done arguing in college, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u321	We need to make some arrangements. Please, colleagues, that doesn't mean that if we have consulted that debate is allowed in any way by club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u322	So, the discussion of Spiric-Špirić-Genjac allowed two delegates to conclude in the end that this is just an initiative that is good, but it is not enough for us to determine today the value, importance, possibility of proposing and initiative towards the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives by authorised constitutional promoters such as the Council of Ministers, i.e. as MPs of another home. On the other hand, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure stands when it comes to the HDZ proposal that someone should take over. It's a legitimate proposal. HDZ has MPs in, who is present, as it would say at the House of Representatives session, a legitimate proposal has been tabled and he has his procedure through the House of Representatives and will likely come to the House of Peoples. There's no need to make any additional access to anyone in the House of Nature. As far as the spirit and character of one and the other Rules of Procedure of Parliament are concerned, the HDZ proposal. As far as the third proposal is concerned, it's a two-part proposal, as I would say, parts, it has alternatives as well. Also, given the fact that the Council of Ministers has been mandated, the Council of Ministers can come up with a proposal that may be accepted in the debate, rejected, but must be considered, as legislator Špirić, a representative of HDZ, or HDZ, is also a legitimate proponent. So I would suggest the next one to cut short. 7 First, in today’s debate, we concentrate on the fact that there is a legitimate initiative, with the explanation given by Mr Špirić, that is all. As for the HDZ, I hope you will accept my explanation of the Rules of Procedure of the Representatives of the House and the House of Peoples, and as for the Council of Ministers, I insist, because I believe that this is quite correct, and they have the right to appear with this initiative, that it will have a destiny in the very statement in the procedure itself, and I think that the College will accept that there is no reason to agree on this now, and that, as I would say, we can open a debate on the agenda and conclude what we can do today. I suggest it, not as a compromise but as a defense of legitimate rights, that delegates as well as the Council of Ministers, as well as the Presidency have the right to offer a legislative proposal. This will prove very quickly during the debate on minority laws and what absurd situations we are coming to, so I would not like to open up, I would just say that I agree with Mr Genjac to take care of the new Rules of Procedure and be the first and second reading, because I did not ask, now about the agenda to say something, not immediately without reading, the amendment by the Presidency, by the Council of Ministers to be in the form of a proposal for this law on national minorities. I think it's quite correct that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has passed both stages. There has been no amendment, no proposal, I find it quite incorrect that what we have received from the Council of Ministers, I hope that all have been given delegates, I would like this to be the last time, that one Council of Ministers or some Council of Ministers official, the assistant also addresses the House of Peoples. We'd be careful if it was a legitimate proposal from the delegates. You have the opportunity to accept the law, to reject it, to give amendments or not, but to correspondence with the delegate and to explain what is appropriate and what is not appropriate to the delegate and to the House of Nations, this council has no right by its rules of procedure or by the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly to work and the only thing we can get out of this situation is that I remain with what the Constitutional and Legal Commission has said, and I will give an explanation when it is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u323	Thank you, Mr Spahić. I don't think anyone's answering, and that's why I'm going to call you now on the proposed changes to the agenda in the order. What's Mr. Divković's problem? Here you go. We're discussing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u324	I, the chairman, would like to remind us all, before you put it to the vote, that in Article 76 of our Rules of Procedure, any envoy, committee at home, House of Representatives, as well as the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers can decially present the bill in the framework of their work. Therefore, according to this article, the practically proposed law by Mr. Mariofil Ljubić is not a proposal for the HDZ law, as far as I know, but Mr. Ljubić said at the House of Representatives that he proposed the law, as a concerned citizen. I don't see that there's a formulation around here, that a concerned citizen can propose an election law, and I don't feel legitimate about that proposal entering the procedure of this home. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u325	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u326	I would like to say everything, as if I had just wanted to protect the integrity of every promoter, Council of Ministers, delegate Špirić and MP Ljubić, I would like to say that I do not understand at all that we can characterise any statements of MPs. Mr Ljubić is a legitimate MP in the House of Peoples, i.e. at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, and no matter what he said about being courted, he has the right to do so as an MP. He has the right to speak as an MP and has the right to speak as you can as a delegate. I am not defending the position of Ljubić, but defending the position of someone who has such a basis that is founded in the Rules of Procedure and in the Constitution, and I would not want us to discuss it here. I warned you that it is not a correct remark to ask you, from delegates, from my colleagues and from me that I support any proposal from either HDZ, any Ljubić, anyone from the House of Representatives, as it is not correct to ask for support that one of these proposals by Spiricev from, say, a group of any political party in the House of Representatives is now proposing and animated when it has already been done in a legitimate manner. Let the House of Representatives clear up whether there are any problems, but here we have no reason... in that case and in the position of this MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u327	Thank you very much. I'd like to brief you immediately without discussion, just a little notice. We have consulted here before the session and are now of the opinion that Ljubićev's prijedlog does not meet the business criteria and that he will not be proposed as an integral part of the agenda. Let me go to the vote on proposals for amendments to the agenda, the way they are proposed. Mrs. Divković and Spahić, can we move on? So, the first proposal was to put a second point on the selection of members of the delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the Organisation on European Security and Cooperation, the Central European Initiative, the Interparliamentary Union and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, out of the simple fact that one of these bodies today will establish together with the elected House of Nations at three o'clock today, so if we make the choice to achieve that term. Who's to raise this point to another position? Unanimity. Thank you very much. That's what we adopted. The next proposal was to fit into Article 99. Election law, the Council of Ministers' proposal and the proposal of Mr Špirić's delegates. There is, therefore, a natural statement under Article 99 on the procedure. Who is to include the Council of Ministers' proposal in the procedure under Article 99. Unanimity. Thank you very much. Who's to put us in the process under Article 99? Mr. Špirić's proposal? - 13's for it. Therefore, they are included in the procedure under Article 99 and in position number 16. 9 Before answering the envoy's questions and the envoy's initiatives. We declare on Mr Tokić's proposal whether we will put the amendment of the committee's members on the agenda, because we did not do so at the last session because Mr Tokić did not attend the session. Who's up for it? Unanimously, that is now point 17. Again before the parliamentary questions. This is us, Novaković. So the proposal is to place on the agenda the responsibility of representatives of the joint implementing bodies, to improve politics and the security situation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u328	Is it possible before the agenda is declared?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u329	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u330	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the envoys, I would like to ask that in the atmosphere in which we should work, we stick to the terms that stand in the Constitution of BiH. I don't know if you've noticed, but BiH institutions, people in the debate have called it different. Some call central institutions, some prefer joint institutions, some like them, state institutions say, but at least when formulating the agenda, they insist on the constitutional category "the BiH institution" there are no common institutions, I don't see anything so bad about it, but to stick to business, because I see that in some people, some prefer this, that at least when formulating the agenda proposal we have that in mind. I'm putting Mr. Novaković's proposal on the agenda to put a point in the way I've just read it. Who's in? Five's in. Who's against it? Two against. Abstained? I find that this initiative has not received support to be included in the agenda today. Let me now read you the draft agenda with the changes adopted. Is everything okay in the media? Yes, it is. 10 So the proposal for today’s session of the agenda would look like this: 1. Report by the Commission to the people at home on the agreement on the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Selection of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in the Organisation on European Security and Cooperation in the Central European Initiative, the Interparliamentary Union and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; 3. Draft law on sport – Proposer Sejfudin Tokić; 4. The bill, of course, I respect Halid Genjac's intervention, but that's what it says here, I understand what it's about. Proposal for a Law on the Holidays of BiH – Proposed by Envoy Sejfudin Tokić; 5. Proposal for a law on the rights of ethnic and national communities or minorities, proposed by Ambassador Ibrahim Spahić; 6. Draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers; 7. Draft law on associations and foundations of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Agreement between the Council of BiH and the Federal Council of Switzerland on the readmission of citizens of BiH and citizens of Switzerland - readmission agreement; 9. The State Border Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia as well as the opinion – Information on the State Border Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH and the Agreement on Treaty Implementation Priorities; 10. Agreement to unannounce and protect investments between BiH and the Republic of Greece; 11. Social security agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia; 12. A free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia with the Protocol on the definition of the concept of originating products and ways of administrative cooperation with Annexes I-IV and the minutes of consent; 13. Report on the work of the Committee to consider persons naturalised after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the Constitution of BiH; 14. Report on the implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH; 15. Proposal for a resolution on trust and reconciliation in BiH – proposed by envoy Ibrahim Spahić; 16. Proposal for the election law of the Council of Ministers and Proposal for an Electoral Law of Envoy Nikola Špirić; 17. Amendment of members of committees; 18. Answer the envoy's questions and initiatives. Who's to adopt the agenda, the way we're doing it now, go ahead. I find that we unanimously adopted the agenda. I also find that, with each item of the agenda, you have received the appropriate opinion of the respective commission of this home. So you have competent materials to discuss every item on the agenda. 11 I now invite you to move to the first item of the agenda. Ad. The Commission's report to the People's House on the Consent on the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is about voting in the second round. You know there was no agreement in the College, and now we're going to have to vote only entityically, and that's what they say only against. If I've said it right, so I'm inviting delegates from the Federation to plead, maybe there's something else that needs to be explained here. This is Article 60. Rules of Procedure. We plead only against and entityically. Who is against the Federation of the Commission Report, etc.? It's nobody. I now call on the delegates from the RS to declare their position on Article 60. Who's against it? Is anyone against the Commission's report from the House of Peoples's House of Understanding against the decision? Here you go. - 5. The decision has not been made. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.2. The election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations You have all approved the proposal. You have a proposal ahead of you. The House of Representatives adopted it. Does anyone want to discuss this point? Do club representatives have any arguments? They don't. If he doesn't. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u331	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are prescribed that before the appointment of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, who will participate in international parliamentary assemblies or other international institutions. It is therefore prescribed that the College, in coordination with the College of the House of Representatives, determines how many members must choose both at home. The college will seek to find a proportionate formula, I repeat, the College will seek to find a proportionate formula that paints the overall composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The proposal we received today shows that in four of these delegations, a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, the Central European Initiative and the Interparliamentary Group in the Interparliamentary Union are foreseen a total of 25 positions of the BiH Parliamentary Group. If the proposal that we received from the College, as it says in the proposal itself, is carefully evaluated, it turns out that, for the Party of Democratic Action, only one position is envisaged and this position is related to the Interparliamentary Group in the Interparliamentary Union. 12 The BiH Democratic Action Party, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, has ten MPs or 18%, given the overall position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If this is now due to a corresponding ratio of 25 – 18% of 25 if we respect Poslvonik, it turns out that the SDA of BiH should participate in these 25 positions with at least 4 and up to 5 positions, and 4.5 how many calculations it shows. Therefore, under this proposal, the SDA is represented only by one position and I repeat it is the Interparliamentary Group in the Interparliamentary Union of BiH. I want to say, therefore, that the College did not respect the principle prescribed by Article 145. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of his obligation to find a proportionate formula that paints the overall composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This proposal does not reflect the overall composition of the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH just before the above reasons. I can do another lab, which is even stricter than the one I was just talking about, but I don't think there's any need, and I think this one also clearly indicates that this criterion has not been taken into account. I demand the House of the People of the Pragmentary Assembly to lead on this fact of the account and that the principle of election results, applied everywhere in the world in the formation of parliamentary delegates and here in the Rules of Procedure, is an obligation here, respected by this House. I would like to further inform you that the Bosniak Club has not taken a stand in the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, has not taken a stand at the morning session on the composition of delegations or delegates to be delegated to these delegations. Since this, therefore, has not been done and here we have this proposal, I propose that Mr Halid Genjac, member and delegate of the SDA, be appointed as delegate from the Dima People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u332	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Is there more, that Živković pa Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u333	Members of the Board of Representatives, delegates, only one principled remark in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure, where it is said that the College in coordination with the College of the House of Representatives will determine how many members must choose both at home and that it will seek to find a proportionate formula, which depicts the overall composition of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in line with what we have previously talked about other points of the agenda on the status of this home, I express my principal dissatisfaction with the participation of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in these Commission offices in other European institutions, because I think that homes are not treated equally and that the proposal goes far and too far in favour of the Parliamentary House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u334	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Jusufović. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u335	Mr. Chairman, given that Džaferović expressed his position on this point, it is true that we did not formally have a position as a club, I suggest that 5 to 10 minutes, perhaps ten minutes enough to take this break, so that the club would come out with its position, because we had some subsequent consultations, so we formally did not carry out the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u336	Thank you. It'll be a very quick break. Here you go, Mr. Jusufović. We're at the point of delegation. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u337	We have conducted our consultations very quickly, I want to inform you that the club has decided on this and removed the shortcomings and we remain meaning to most votes, we remain on the proposal you received in the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u338	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a debate? Mr. Džaferović reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u339	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Bosniak delegates' club is mostly votes, therefore, against the votes of the Party of Democratic Action delegates who there two supported the College's proposal. I only want to draw attention once again to all of us, to the fact that what is planned to be done in the coming minutes, when it comes to the selection of members of these delegations, is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and contrary to the principle of election results. It is contrary to the principles with which we should go to these parliamentary delegations, especially the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I want to say that the political party that won the most votes in BiH does not particulate in that ratio that belongs to it or near that which does not belong to it from close proximity to these delegations. It is a shame that the political party that won the largest number of votes in BiH will not be represented in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, according to this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u340	Thank you very much. If no one ever answers again, I do, regardless of the different opinions, only the task of inviting you to vote on, in turn, as it says in my book, so I ask you to listen. Organisation on Eurypical Security and Cooperation. The proposal is to make it Mr. Ivo Divković. 14 Who is it that in the name of the People's House, Mr. Ivo Divković? - 13 for it. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? – 1 I konstatirati that Mr Ivo Divković was appointed on behalf of the People's House in the Organisation for Eurypical Security and Cooperation. We now declare our candidates for the Central European Initiative. The candidates are Munib Jusufović and Dragutin Ilić. Who is it that the gentlemen mentioned are appointed to the Central European Initiative? - 13 for it. Proverted? Restraint. - One against. - I agree that Mr Munib Jusufović and Dragutin Ilić were appointed to the Central European Initiative on behalf of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We now declare our candidates for the Interparliamentary Union. The candidates are Mr Ibrahim Spahić, Mr Ivo Živković and Mr Dragutin Rodić. Who is it to give the gentlemen? - 12 for it. Who's the bird? - I don't mind. The abstentions? - 1 abstention. We're one voice short. Two abstentions, no missing. Thank you very much. I agree that Mr Ibrahim Spahić, Ivo Živković and Dragutin Rodić were elected to the Interparliamentary Union on behalf of the House of Peoples. I now suggest we make a statement on our candidates for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The candidates are Mr. Sejfudin Tokić and Mr. Goran Turjačanin. Who is it that the appointed gentlemen are appointed? - 12 for it. Do you mind? - One against. Are there any abstentions? - 1 abstention. I agree that Mr Sejfudin Tokić and Goran Turjačanin were appointed to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on behalf of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're moving to agenda number three. That is, I will, in addition to Mr Genjac's warning, which is quite or commercially and constitutionally fine, read the headlines as we received from the promoter, so please do not cause the debate, and in the future it will likely come from the promoter. Ad.3. A draft law on sport – Proposer Mr. Sejfudin Tokić You received the law as well as the position of the competent commission, in this case it is the Constitutional and First Commission. This is the first reading of this law, consistent with our 90th Rules of Procedure. We will, of course, first discuss how this member tells us about the general principles of this law. Is anyone answering that question? 15 Mr Ivo Divković reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u341	I believe Mr. Tokić has put this law in parliamentary procedure. However, this law has been filed by several MPs and MPs. You have the signatures here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u342	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u343	You have here and signatures that were still in the last session. It was also on the agenda, therefore, that the proponent was Mr Tokić, and five MPs and MPs from the formerly convened the Parlametarian Assembly of BiH, including my little one.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u344	Mr. Divković, I apologize to you. I wouldn't be able to bring this session to an end if I didn't have a reminder in front of me. I use it well, and sometimes I improvise which is not good. It says here as I say. I apologize again. It was supposed to write differently, and here's the thing. So, I invite you, if anyone wants to discuss the general principles. He wants Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u345	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, the esteemed guests, the draft law on sport, was the very first draft of the law on sports was the last meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Representatives Council and what we argued about in this conference was the constitutional basis. counterpart Divković is right, when he says that there were more signatories and promoters as MPs, but in order to satisfy our business structure, then he had to stand behind this proposal as a delegate so that we could discuss. I don't want to get into what the others didn't suggest on the Council of Representatives. But what I would like to draw attention to is a report by the Constitutional-First Commission stating on all these proposals that we have come to the conclusion that there is a constitutional and legal basis for declaring drafts and draft laws. I would like to say that we had different opinions here and that it would be good to say at least for certain legal projects what the ratio was to vote on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I would like to say personally when it comes to the Law on Sport or the Draft Law on Sports, that Mr Rodić and I, from the order of the Serbian people, have disputed the constitutional basis of this law, that others voted that there was a constitutional basis and for these reasons, the Constitutional and Legal Commission had decided to have a constitutional basis. I have prepared amendments concerning the constitutional basis and I want to read these amendments to you and what I personally regret is that the best things in BiH, 16 sometimes and with an early initiative, we are knocking. I then suggested that the question of sports be regulated by the agreement between entities. If we had done so by now, we would have teams that are pouring in on behalf of BiH outside, unfortunately, we are masters to compete over legal projects and that things on the ground don't go as citizens or as we would like them to go. So, subject to amendment to the Sports Act. Amendment 1. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the law does not exist, or is not established by the Constitution of BiH, and I propose that the bill be rejected as unconstitutional. Explanation. The preamble to this proposal is not justified in calling for the next members of the BiH Constitution. Article 2(1), which is dedicated to human rights. Explanation. This article regulates that BiH and both entities will provide the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that there will be a human rights commission for BiH to this end, as provided for in Annex VI of the Framework Agreement for Peace. Thus, the general setting does not refer to an adequately justified establishment of the basis for the adoption of this law, since under human law and fundamental freedom it can be assumed to be entitled to order sports in an entity, before that member of the Constitution also speaks of the right of the entity to regulate this area, based primarily on the principles of voluntary association, rather than imposing by force of the law. Article 2nd point 2nd International Standard. Explanation. This article regulates that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as its protocols, are directly applicable in BiH, and that they have priority over all other legal projects. That Convention and its Protocols shall not specify the obligation of administrative regulation of sport, at least not in the sense of establishing state authority over sport or any regulation of this area beyond the Constitution as the highest legal act of one State. Article 3 3. Listing of freedoms. Explanation. Of all human rights and basic freedoms taxed at points a. to m., none of them speak of the legal obligation to regulate sport exclusively at BiH level. The aim is to find a constitutional basis for their proposal within the framework of this institution, the proposings are trying to find a point in point and. It is talking about freedom of peaceful gathering and freedom of association. It is also the very definition to which they are called to a sufficient extent that, for peaceful gathering and association, they support volunteering rather than public coercion, nor certain rules of the game, not the rules of the game by the state. It is interesting, however, that no proposal or act of any sport association, or association, which would require the adoption of the law, indicated a confusion on this gathering, association or regretted any obstacles to human rights violations and fundamental freedoms of the ban on gathering and so on. 17 It is not clear from the proposal whether the proposings have addressed any of these institutions or organisations, and to what the Rules of Procedure of the People's House would be obliged to submit an initiative for the adoption of this law within the meaning of Article 77a of the Rules of Procedure. Article 3(5)a) Explanation. Article 3 The BiH constitution regulates jurisdiction between BiH institutions and its entities. Taxis from a. to j. are listed BiH's competencies, and nowhere does it matter about sports and sports forms of organisation. Point 3 of the same member is specified that all functions and powers that are not explicitly given to BiH institutions belong to entities. So, sport as a form of social organisation is in the jurisdiction of the entity, until entities agree differently, and as prescribed by the same member of the BiH Constitution. Proposers are even invited to Article 2 and that is to point 5 which, unfortunately, says the following. Bosnia and Herzegovina will take over the responsibilities for other affairs under which entities agree on the activities provided for by aneks V-V-VIII of the opšti Framework Agreement, or necessary for the preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of BiH, in line with the division of competence between BiH institutions. Additional institutions may be established, where appropriate, to carry out these responsibilities. Therefore, the provisions of the Constitution to which the reasoning of this proposal is called do not correspond at all to the grounds for the adoption of this law, the objectives of the proposal, nor do they justify the intention to state as well as a voluntary association of citizens, and the sports alliances are so, sanctioned by law, and exclusively at the state level. This is not only to disprove the thesis presented in the draft Association Law, but in this case, the establishment of an expert advice introduces the principle of co-ordination of administration at the state level, not explaining why the same principle cannot be applied in entities. In this proposal, i.e. its reasoning, there is no indication of the need to provide adequate resources, sources for their provision and other necessary means for the implementation of this law, which would, of course, be an obligation. Since sport is in the jurisdiction of the entity, whether entities have the right to regulate this area of social life and since sport is not explicitly listed as the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law can only be the agreement of the entity, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(5). The BiH Constitution, which has not yet been reached and the imposition of a solution in the form of state law, could act counter-productively on the ongoing negotiation processes. Since the matter has to be objectively agreed on, among the relevant entity sports alliances, justified the highlighted needs of participation in international sports competitions and the first one seems to me to need joint inter-entity programmes of work and the creation of voluntary sports associations at BiH level, instead of adopting laws that do not have a valid constitutional basis. On the basis of the fact, therefore, of all that I have said, I suggest that this law be rejected as unconstitutional and that we support the procedure of agreeing on an inter-entity, that one agreement regulates this matter or that entities, in accordance with the Constitution, transfer part of the authority to BiH institutions to regulate this area. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Tokić has come forward as a promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u347	Dear gentlemen, I'm surprised by a bunch of words behind which no foothold stands. It's simply that whoever today wants to follow the Eurypian demorkat tradition has exactly the obligation to leave, to enable sport to team up and settle its own issues. There must be no interference with the freedom of association of NGOs, including associations, and such include sports associations. But here we have obviously one negative interference and it's completely separate from real life. Mr Špirić, if you had followed the debate more closely about this law, whose appearance in the agenda prevented the same rhetoric as I heard from you, then you would know that in Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Sarajevo, the will of sports associations and associations from all parts of BiH, including RS, has been clearly expressed in many meetings, that they can freely join together to create a legal framework for them to organise. You have one more fact. The process has long gone ahead of such political rhetoric. Associations, sports associations, associations of sports associations were created at BiH level, but they do not have a legal framework. The legal framework will be partially tempered once the law on associations and foundations has been passed, but the specificity of sport is also not resolved by this law and therefore we have decided on this law where we have said that we should resolve and begin to address the issue of top-notch sports manifestations of interest for both entities of all three peoples, so total for BiH. I am very, very disappointed, with a political rhetoric that represents the remains of the '95 consciousness blockades, when the war ended and when the debate was developed that someone from the RS would never participate in the BiH team or anyone from Western Herzegovina would never join the team and participate as a team on behalf of BiH in sports competitions, but of course they would do so in Croatia and the SRJ. Believe in a long time ago in Yugoslavia and long ago in Croatia have given up, it does not occur to them to do such things, and here what we have simply, I can only quote as inaccuracy, the constitutional basis is clearly stated, the constitutional basis is, by the way, checked with those who interpret the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. The constitutional basis is also used, let me tell you something else, there are political structures that have gone further. The whole law is based on what is an agreement, the first members of the presidency, related to BiH's sports representation and what is agreed under the Olympic Committee. I have no doubt that the logic of the red vote on this side can be prevented today, given to the harmonisation of this law, but Mr. Špirić and gentlemen, I warn you, that's how life stops. Check with your competitors, with people whose sport is the only occupation of whether you are working in their interest or in the interest of an Olympic policy that they should all leave long ago. Check it out, and by the way, I, as a legislator, one of the legislators, is quite right Mr. Divković, I will rightly point out here that we also had legislators from the House of Nations from the previous RS, I would like to offer you that Mr. Špirić you as a member of the College with such a discussion participate in a debate that we will have here with representatives of sports associations from both 19 Bosnian Herzegovina entities, and we will discuss with them how this issue should be resolved and whether the law on sport that will allow them to resolve their questions and, ultimately, I would like to repeat just one thing. It is not the state that norms and assumes the rights of athletes, but to enable athletes to uninterruptedly, freely join and participate in competitions and within BiH and, of course, remain on this proposal with, indeed, one of their deep, deep disappointments, I just thought that Mr Špirić had made one progress through the behavior and adoption of these laws, which we just adopted, which the House of Peoples rightly showed that there are other climates, when the remains of the old climates flow through this rhetoric here. As far as the Constitutional and Legal Commission is concerned, it is the only one relevant to assess the constitutional legal basis and has given a positive opinion. Of course, I must remind you that we on the Constitutional and Legal Committee had the votes of Špirić against, which is too much to say, given the fact and Rodić, which is also too much to say on this discussion that we had. I'm staying where I need to be, and I'd like to ask further debates to go forward with how to set these principles of law to really affirm sport at all levels and the state to be put into office to help athletes not to prevent it. The state's current policy with this kind of relationship prevents athletes from being active. Be sure that's the case, and I'll be happy to offer you what you asked for, the wishes of the association, we'll be very happy to offer it, publicly transparently and show you how much you actually live in a policy of the past.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u348	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. Wrong quote, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been trying to leave my debate always in a dose of courtesy. Sejfudin Tokić, no matter how he talks, will not get a chance to go to another extreme. Applying to the remains of the past and looking in them for Nikol Špirić resembles the hypocrisy of Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, who thinks he charms the public of BiH. For the first time, unfortunately, I hear that the sports alliances are changing the BiH Constitution, that its rapprochement with athletes here will change the Constitution. I'm just saying that the constitution is being amended by constitutional procedure, that what belongs to entities, they can freely transfer to common bodies and I, therefore, only insist on constitutional procedures. I beg you, therefore, not to put in your mouth what I didn't say. The dissatisfaction with Sejfudin Tokić, his performances I have listened to in these last three years, but I thought he would stay in the polite area of address when it comes to me. To my will for any legal project, you can test here from debate to method of declaration. These words can't make me work past the Constitution. I'm not a man who sees the Constitution in green before noon and in red afternoon. I ask Sejfudin Tokić not to place these delegates on the left in some unique red color. We are probably delegates to this house as well as Mr. Sejfudin Tokić and I could hold a few courses here, but I will not, for your sake, appreciate you all, respect my colleague Sejfudin Tokić and ask that we leave these barren replicas to the public of BiH for our debate within our colleges and cabinets, but this is not at first which contributes to the legislative project. I will participate in discussions of all alliances, help them as a delegate – an MP to come to a legal project, in accordance with the 20 Constitution, and I do not run away from such discussions. It would be good if Sejfudin Tokić said he has some demands that we have received them as all delegates – MPs not to ask a question. I, therefore, as a delegate to the disputed constitutional basis. If most people think that the constitutional basis exists and that the law should be passed, I am a legal person and I will respect the position of the majority and act in accordance with the law that we adopt. Don't accuse me as a delegate before you pass the law. But if we don't adopt him, he'll fall into the water, the stories of my colleague Sejfudin Tokić. It's not good to put delegates from one entity as ugly boys in someone's movie. I don't do that to you or to you when I do, and it's not good for citizens, it's not good for athletes, it's not good for anyone. But if I don't keep the story, I want to stay in the courtesy zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u350	Thank you. Replica Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, Jusufović and Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u351	I wouldn't quote about the hypocrisy you cited. The owner would mention it in a certain way to whom it could be sewn, but I'm asking you for specific allegations. Tell a member of the Constitution in which sport is the jurisdiction of any level of state. Please state to me the law, that is, the Constitution in which it says that sport is the sole jurisdiction of the entity. Sports are more cooperative, Mr. Špirić. I don't know if you've ever had anything to do with sports or if you're just a TV viewer, if you've ever been on one team. Sports is the freedom of association and athletes must be provided with the right to association and there is no right for this Parliamentary Assembly to stop that freedom of association at BiH level, as is not at RS level, at Federacje level, at entity level. We currently do not have any law that would affirm the basic human right in the Constitution, which is decidently stated, the right to association of all and even athletes. We haven't passed an adequate law, and rhetoric just fits the character of your discussion, Mr. Špirić and I wouldn't change it at all, because it's perfectly understandable to language adjustments in such a way and that language is best understood in your mile.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u352	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, I will differ slightly from one and the other co-chairs, the truth more, what I will say will be in the support of Mr. Tokić, not because he is from the order of Bosniak delegates, but because his argument is quite enough that in a certain way what Mr. Špirić was saying is unanimously adjudicating. I, too, must say that you, Mr. Šorić, surprise me, especially the way you argue, and this is the beginning of something at home when you say some pragmatic things, that you are going by the method of reducing everything that applies to BiH. You, I remember the last sentence or the last sentence of yours, I like that one, but then something goes against each other when you say you're a legalist. If so, then give me a member in your adjudication who says that this is not allowed to be introduced into legal proceedings or that it is contrary to what you say. Right there's a simple rule, and it's all the way to the end. Everything that is not explicitly forbidden is allowed. Therefore, this is one legal way in which Mr Tokić and the group of delegates entered the procedure with this issue. I hope and support these initiatives, but I hope that there will be much more of these 21 initiatives in the future and I must say myself that I am preparing with one package, such and similar initiatives, and I am sure that you will give the same explanation that it is the opposite of BiH. I'm undermining it one more time. If you have arguments go out and say, state a member that this is what we are now discussing, that the opposite is forbidden by the Constitution of BiH. If it is, since I'm a legalist, I'll change the way I think right now. So, give me and us proof that this, this initiative, is forbidden, very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u353	Thank you very much. The false quote Špirić pa Novaković also blamed the allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u354	You see, I can't, maybe it's my weakness that I can't understand some discussions. I understand that Sejfudinov's story is closer to Mr Jusufović, not for national reasons, but what they view as a sport, I can understand that, but look at the BiH Constitution he listed, I guess I don't have to explain to you what BiH authorities are as states. I don't argue that I can also watch sports be, but there writes everything that is tactful from a. to j. is not in BiH's jurisdiction, it's in the entity's jurisdiction, so it tells you. If entities agree to organise some activities at central state level, the initiative will be launched. Wasn't it better if the debate was sought within the entity parliamentarians? Until now, we would have had this law. I don't dispute the initiative. Well, you didn't realize I was slowing down the initiative. But we're talking constitutional grounds to get to the law. I was telling my colleague Sejfudin when he filed that request, I don't mind if the athletes organize, form an alliance, etc. to have a team at all levels so far, that we went in agreement in terms of an alliance agreement. I beg you, look at the Constitution. I'm standing right here, so tell me. Let me know from a. to j. where it says that sport is in jurisdiction. Freedom of association, I have told you what the freedom of association means: human rights, international standards, list of freedoms, restraints, etc. There's no constitutional basis. There's no sport, there's no one from a. to j. Now you see the thing, I agree with you, here's to agree that it should be, start a legal initiative – a reason to pass it on to define it. This is not the way you will infuse BiH's environment. It's not good to sit on one or the other. The one with the old rhetoric and the new rhetoric. I'm an absolute legalist. Everything he gets around here most of it, it's legal. Here today, if he gets most of it, Nikola Špirić remains in the minority, is there anything embarrassing about it? Can I think differently from you? If we all think the same thing, what are we doing here? Let's have one come and make public statements and tell them what they want. You want to turn the congregation into an impossible thing. So, I don't think there is, if the other 14 thinks they do, I congratulate you on the past law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u355	Wrong quote, mate, it's the wrong allegation, though.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u356	I'm considering the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u357	I'm thinking differently about the wrong assumption. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u358	To read from a. to j. to read where the sport is and I say okay has a sport I retire. There isn't. There's no ban. You know what the procedure is to get to this law, that's all I'm talking about. Don't make us, we're masters of appearances, or I don't know who the master is to block certain activities in BiH, because he won't respect the BiH Constitution and the entity constitution, it's the most blocking of kativity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u359	Thank you. Mr. Novaković is blaming the quote. It's three minutes to frame the wrong quote and be on the wrong assumption, but don't argue, but please temperament is a temperament and I understand it, but it's my unpleasant role to remind you of.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u360	Here, I'll fit in in these three minutes. Namely, this is where Mr. Tokić said that there is no member in the Constitution who is a sport somewhere classy. I mean, that's not true. Article 3 The BiH Constitution, paragraph 3, says this. All government functions and powers not explicitly granted to BiH institutions belong to entities. So it clearly belongs to the entity because it's not listed, it's not true it's not classy, it's classy and belongs to entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u361	Thank you very much. Replica Tokić and the discussion, so he blames the quote, when will Divković come to us for discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u362	I'd just like to beg you as a proposing. I'd like to underline one thing. I'm really standing by to say that this is where you come in with a stereotype of predetermined voting. Sir, of course all government functions, but the essence of this, and the essence of sport and freedom of association is that it's not a government function. So how do you imagine sports? You're going to ask the government to form a team to decide how many teams they're going to have. It's freedom of association. I'm begging you. I agree I said in my introduction. The Association Act will open up a space for sport, but it will not solve all the specificities of sports association. It will not solve all these specificities, but to quote this Article 3 and say as a government, it is indeed transparently shown that someone does not understand NGOs and the slowness of restraints and sports associations and does not understand it white-headedly. Sport is not a government institution and must not be a government institution. Maybe in some countries in some totalitarian regimes, some president wanted to be a selector, some president wanted to keep the names of teams, but I guess that's over. That's not what we're trying for. Freedom of association and sport are not government powers. The government only has the obligation to give full freedom to athletes in showing themselves in what people are capable of.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u363	Ibrahim Spahić, guilty of allegation. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u364	I would like Mr. Chairman to say something to a colleague who has reported on what is whose jurisdiction and on this proposal for a law on sports. It's entirely wrong to assume that something belongs to a state or entity or to a municipality. It can't be something that belongs to it. It's not an organic thing, it's not an organic thing, it's a debate here. Sport and other human activities, e.g. There are a lot of things that are about sports, only a quarter, or just one sport, or horizontal or vertical, one quite specific line of freedom of human association and the realization of talent opportunities. Secondly, it is not true, a debate is constantly being held to say one argument, it is constantly being introduced that this law is not supported by different sports alliances of individuals and groups. This law has been spoken of for a long time since '95. And in '96, the first, as I would say, opportunities for communication between people have shown that the secondary sports alliances and groups have joined together, and with the absence of this law, including the Olympic Committee and you cannot prevent, let's say, to resolve this proud knot and this debate that is becoming completely absurd in relation to the interests of the citizens. We're only here because of the citizens' interest. One of their vital interests is sport and talent, etc. We've disabled, butchered, I'd say human rights and freedoms that people who have talent and some values that are special, that can't fit into these narrow degates, that don't mean anything, don't be angry, it's not about this or that argument anymore, it doesn't mean anything. One-hour weight loss. This is already becoming torture when it comes to athletes. You saw that the Sydney Olympics were only with individuals.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u365	I share your opinion with my colleague Spahić, but it's not an excuse.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u366	The false assumption is that something belongs to the entity. That's all I wanted to say. It doesn't belong. It belongs to the original fundamental human rights and interests of association on this found planet Earth. Maybe on some other institutional system, but I suggest we concentrate on the nature of the law. There is nothing in the law that opposes these fundamental interests of citizens, and I think we should concentrate our attention on that. There were no amendments to this law. That's amazing. We're having a general debate, and we're in a phase when we read first and second times, and I don't know which time either. Therefore, we must take care of ourselves. If we had the opportunity to react in an amendment way to the Constitutional-First Commission, we should have taken advantage of it. We can't just bypass that self-procedural circle. I would ask you in this regard to try to concentrate on the fact that, too, the House of Peoples must respect its own procedure. The Commission of the People's House is the same as the meeting of the House of Peoples in a specific area. That's how our Rules of Procedure defined it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u367	Thank you very much Ivo Divković. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u368	Dear colleagues, the fundamental dilemma that is being heard here in the debate is whether there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law in the BiH Parliament or not. Here, Mr Špirić interpreted constitutional provisions by which, in his deep conviction, there is no basis for the adoption of this law. Mr. Tokić and the other debaters mainly claimed the opposite. I highly appreciate the familiarity of Mr Špirić and all other constitutional legal matter, however, if we are to be legalists, then the only legitimate authority that says whether something has a constitutional basis or does not have is the Constitutional and Legal Commission. It is clear that we do not have to agree with this view of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, it is our right, but we must accept the legality of that body and the decision it makes as a legal and legitimate decision, that is a fact. If it hadn't been for that legal and legitimate decision by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, in the sense that this was missed on this home, I would have pulled it out myself and asked it to withdraw, etc., because I would say there's no constitutional basis, because the body that decides that there is no, but we have a different situation. So I'd ask you to understand that in that sense, because we'll never convince each other here, whether there is or not a constitutional basis. We can work on it for three days, it won't help us much. I would prefer that we enter into the essence of this law, and see that basically work is in order one general arrangement of an area of social life, etc. We are speaking here to the rest of the top athlete, and we say that the status of top athlete gives it to the BiH Olympic Committee, based on criteria etc. So we already have in sport certain, let's say, institutions that are at the level of the BiH state already exist, they are formed. They need to be given the law, given the opportunity and the means for them to do their own part of the work, which is why they are formed, etc. I don't want to elaborate any more members of the law. You all had a chance to read it, watch it, etc. I think it would be very good, for God's sake, if this were to write a draft here, now according to the terminology that is in the Rules of Procedure, it would be very good, and I would personally be grateful to you, and I believe Tokić, because the two of us here are sitting among these other signatories to give all constructive suggestions that this law be done, amended, etc., adapted possibly to the situation and to adopt one law on sport, which would be a means for all people in sport and sports to continue doing their job, but now within a certain legal framework. Clearly, this law does not prevent, even on the contrary, entities from having their own laws, from regulating sport in their territory, as well as in accordance with legislation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u369	Thank you very much. He's blaming the quote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u370	In fact, it's not a bad quote. I'm on to what Mr. Divković says. It would be logical, but it's a failure of us to join the College if we had put the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report on adoption. I have warned that the Constitutional and Legal Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has made a decision, but that representatives of a nation, in that commission, because it was so woven, were against and I ask nicely, here is a statement on the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that the debate will be the same. We can accept the report, we don't have to, Divković is absolutely right. But we don't want to get into the essence. We're ready to charge ourselves, not discuss the essence. There you go, that's 25. We can discuss the Commission's report. Who's in favour of, who's against, discussing the law and getting out of this knot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u371	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac. Make a deal. Here's to Jusufović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u372	The wrong assumption is that you, Mr. Špirić, don't get me wrong that I'm after you today, but you're really making a mistake behind a mistake. I initially thought that when you were adopted, when it was the subject of the Administrative Financial Commission where you were supposed to internal organisation around the Secretariat etc. I thought it was just a slip, however, you are now just confirming, that you really want to turn the College into something that absolutely doesn't allow you to have this rules of procedure. How come you have the right individually to you, the Constitutional Commission is an organ. She has her jurisdiction. What makes you right, even if you vote however you want to change the Constitutional Commission's decision. It's about harsh oversight, I don't know if you really meant it, but this is a dangerous way of allowing yourself the right to co-chair, then we sit in all those bodies for nothing. So, I may have heard or you might have convinced us otherwise, but you keep going from mistake to error, because now I see that it's also a mistake with the Administrative Legal Commission, so it's intentional. Question, give me a foothold again, where can you, as a College, change the decision of the Constitutional Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u373	Wrong quote, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u374	I'm trying to find a way out, and I don't mind when you think you're focused and you're less focused or you're not focused, but see what's the matter. I'm trying to find a way out of this and you're absolutely right, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is an organ, that we don't need to adopt a report, but I'm talking about how we got to this, whether there's a basis or there's no problem, if there's a quality debate in the content of the law that we're leading it and we're getting out of this. It's not mine, believe me, you'll have a clear position on how to vote, and I said where I don't see the constitutional basis. You see differently and let me, therefore, have not been my goal to manipulate the organs. If anyone realized that I'm ready to apologize, not my goal, and you won't have me, no matter what the debate was, when you put me against you to put me in a position to hesitate. Bog forbid, you won't even say I'm the rest of the past to stand behind the Constitution like that. I'm the man who wants a dialogue with you, and you're the people who want to dictate. Well, I can't agree to a dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u375	Thank you. Mr. Genjac, the discussion. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u376	Dear colleagues, two questions are open and I will look back at them and then I will discuss the law in the general debate. First, we must make it clear, however, that the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and it is presented to the House before the debate on the law in question, and I think it is important that at the beginning of this debate it has been noted, unless someone has received the position of the Constitutional and First Commission. The position of the Constitutional Legal Commission, a fact, passed by most votes, but it is according to the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional and First Commission. That's one thing. It's another thing. A member of the Tokić kolegij made one psychological analysis, the psychological portrait of his colleague Špirić from the College, and, mentioningly expected, he thought so of the rest of his consciousness, that I think of another place. Delegate Tokić announced with a change in the concept of changing the adoption of the law, and it is logical to expect that promise with most votes with which he was elected to this place together with counterpart Špirić and to keep that promise. Someone else can talk, I expect, I mean from there. And they're voters, so the athletes expect the promise to be fulfilled and to finally pass the law. The law is in my opinion very well done. It treats key issues and solves the most important problems of athletes and solves the most important issues by me in an appropriate good way and I think it can serve as a good basis for a second reading and I suggest we make an effort to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u377	Since it appeared already in two discussions, as I rated Mr Špirić in a certain way. I didn't judge Mr. Špirić, I was just estimating his statement, and I'm staying with the evaluations of those he has, and I guess everything is subject to change, and people are subject to changes in their attitudes, because there would simply be no progress, there would be no change, if that was the best illustration by Mr. Genjac earlier, because you see he didn't have this kind of affirmative opinion when he was chairman. This law could never come to the agenda at all, while Banjac, Genjac and Skopljak chaired at all. He has been in the process for a year and more, almost two years he has waited to enter and failed to enter the process of parliamentary for the vaccine, but here is the change of Genjac and, by the way, as long as it will be and by the way, another information that my colleague from the cabinet provided me 31.3. over 60 sports representatives of sports associations, the association at the Conference that had an international even character, requested the adoption of the law on sport, and the list of these associations, of course, you would be interested in Mr Špirić only those from RS, because you feel only answers to them, which is certainly wrong for me to deliver to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u378	A replica of Genjac, then a replica of Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u379	I was two years in the previous term, before that in my previous term I was a member of the college and I was always in favour of this law, the way I said it today 27. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Psolovnik, the agenda was determined by the consensus of the colleges, therefore, regardless of what I thought and what was as it was today and what was not subject to change, he could not have been brought by consensus. However, Mr Tokić announced a change in the entire college in his pre-election performances and announced that the change in the concept and victory of the SDP and its victory would allow both the entire College and the entire parliament to be adopted by the majority of the laws, most of the votes. That's the difference between the changes they're talking about. As far as I'm concerned, I had the same attitude and I stay with him.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u380	Thank you very much. It's a replicator.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u381	I'm glad Mr. Tokić is coming in, because it would be unfair to talk because he's not here. I didn't know I was here on the grade. I thought I was a delegate here like you, and I don't know who has the right to appreciate me for what grade. Such grades as you gentlemen want to punish BiH. Who has the right to judge who? What grades? But it looks like we need to get this debate right up to the point where we take a picture of ourselves as kids in the snow. I will, so let this little law disgust the citizens, because we should delegates to be disgusted and it's true when we can't fill the factories, when we can't raise production so we can argue like this. That's what I'm warning you. Nikola Špirić is not on the grade, you're wrong a lot. Those who go to OHR are mistaken, so they'd tell me there if it weren't for Špirić. Not a Špirić past the Constitution, that's what I'm saying in public. I respect the international community and its institutions, but those who have stuck their hands in the international community's pocket think they won't lie for long. You can judge whoever you want. Form yourself at home a home community, give class community whatever grade you want. The assessment of Nikola Špirić was given by voters as well as by you and will be given in the next elections and you intend to review. Discuss the laws. I beg you, Mr. Chairman, to protect the delegates. I slowed down the foundation and made it clear where I slowed it down. Others were supposed to talk about whether there was a constitutional basis, not about Nikola Špirić. I'll have my biography delivered to you if you're interested. If you're interested in my written position on a project, I'll write it down and take it to any office and say, "Here's a man thinks so, but you who often have no attitude whatsoever about individuals you punish BiH." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u382	I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u383	He has the word of his esteemed colleague, Ilija Šimić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u384	It's the replica. Dear fellow ladies and gentlemen present. My replica refers to it, if I were to protect delegates and envoys in the way that it suggests 28 Mr. Špirić, then I would put myself in one minute or three minutes to the side of Mr. Špirić and the next three minutes to the side of someone else. I respect you all, especially my colleagues in the College, who we've been working very hard together. Different opinions are here. These are different political highways. We'll probably get close to them. We've partly brought them closer. That's what we showed today, but I'm begging as I preside not to be called this way to protect someone. I protect the Rules of Procedure and protect the work of this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u385	I thank my colleague Šimić. He's been in the context for up to three minutes, please the next debaters.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u386	Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u387	I will be very brief, Mr. Chairman, so I am a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and I went out for this pay phone to say that this law, the law on sport, exists as a constitutional basis in the Constitution of BiH. I would like to show to all those who have interpreted the BiH Constitution in their own way, seeking the competences of BiH only among those who are taxed in Article 3. that this is not the right way to interpret the BiH Constitution, and we can remain within it and give one broader elaborated of all these points, so you will see that we will also find the basis. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the law by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is, among other things, required by reading the entire text of the Constitution, its meaning and everything that comes out of the Constitution and here is not the fiscal wording in the Constitution. It's literally taxing. I think the promoter has stated a valid constitutional basis and I want to draw your attention to what it says in the text of the bill's reasoning. That the constitutional basis is contained in Article 2.1, 2.2, 3.5. The BiH Constitution. In Article 2.1. The BiH Constitution, among other things, states that BiH and both entities will ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms. In Article 2.2. It has been established that the rules and freedoms provided for in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its protocols are directly applicable in BiH. These acts have priority over these other laws. Article 3.3. It has been established that all persons on BiH territory enjoy the human rights and freedoms of the 2nd member's position, which includes freedom of peaceful gathering and freedom of association with others. Not to read further and not to talk about representing BiH's sports teams abroad, that I am not particularly talking about it. Please, I understand the constitutional basis this way and this is how I understood it when I gave my vote to the Constitutional Affairs Commission and, of course, I understand it today and I will understand it in the future. 29 The Constitutional and Legal Commission has made a decision. Its decision is an opinion on the constitutional basis and that opinion is the only valid opinion in this House when it comes to constitutional basis. All those who think otherwise can operate in those stages of parliamentary procedure when they are in a position to make such or such decisions, but when the Constitutional Commission takes a position, I ask you to refer to it as a House in a way that respects your own parliamentary working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u388	Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u389	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates to the House of Peoples. Since I'm one of the members of the Constitutional First Commission, I just want to say a few words about what we're talking about today. I think that this debate went in a completely wrong direction and that it wasn't the goal of us who were on the Constitutional-First Commission, but we came back today to debate at this House of Nations session again as if it were the session of the Constitutional-Legal Commission. I only ask you one question. Would this bill even have entered the procedure if the Constitutional and Legal Commission hadn't said by revote 3-2 that there was a legal basis for passing such a law. Therefore, I admit, although I have singled out my opinion, that the constitutional procedure and most of the votes that this and the rules of the Rules of Procedure are in the debate today. Therefore, it remains a different one. We heard here today, and most of all we argue about constitutional ground. I can only suggest we go further and put this draft bill to a vote to see what happens next, not to be exhausted here by these discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u390	I'm very much sharing your opinion. I don't think there's any more reporting for discussion in principles, in the general principles of the law. I now invite you, politely to the Rules of Procedure, to vote whether or not we will move on to the discussion of the details, therefore, to the debate on members of the law. Who's to move on to the next stage in our first reading? - Nine for it. Who's against it? - 3 against the abstentions – and 2 against. It's quite clear here that it's a coincidence. We don't have the entity's consent. We are and so, thank you, of course, for the vote. We also planned a break from 3 to 4 and because of the sessions that I announced these working bodies, and on the other hand should be lunched and rested, I give a break up to 16 hours. 30 We can keep going. [[PAUZA]] We're on the 4th doesn't mean you have the word of gentlemen from the Council of Ministers. Nothing they do, that doesn't mean you have a word if I commended you for being here. We keep working. We're on the fourth item of the agenda. Ad. 4. The proposal for a law on the holidays of BiH – proposed by Ambassador Sejfudin Tokić You received the zakon. You've been given the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so you've got the authorities. This is a principle debate under Article 90, as was the case with the previous law, but I am convinced that there will be no major debates, or useless debates. I'm not saying anyone was useless. Is anyone answering for a word in the previous principled debate on the principles of the law? He's not answering. Now we'll vote. That's the procedure. Are we going to have a discussion? Now we're going to vote if we're going to move on to an individual discussion about members in our first reading. We invite you to come clean about this. We're still in the first reading, moving on to the discussion of individual members. Who's in? - unanimity. Thank you very much. Who's reporting for a discussion on details? Gospodn Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u391	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests, the Constitutional Commission has unanimously concluded that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. I think BiH needs BiH's holiday law and I think we should get the strength to get to that law at today's session, in that sense I've made amendments to this law and amendment 1. It refers to Article 1. Proposal and I suggest that Article 1. The proposal changes and says: “The holidays of BiH are: New Year's Eve, 1 May, as a holiday of work and 21 November as a day of statehood for BiH. BiH's holiday days do not involve joint bodies, institutions and organisations of BiH, entity bodies, state-owned enterprises and other legal entities. Holidays in BiH entities are determined by entity laws." Explanation. The proposed scope of the holiday is too great, given that entity legislation has established additional holidays, primarily religious character that would be unfavourable and inappropriate to restrict, narrow or distinguish, especially in BiH as a multiethnic and multicultural society. With regard to marking BiH's creation as an independent and sovereign state, it is enough to mark 21 November as the day of BiH's statehood, given that the law is also practically accepted as the date of the official end of the war conflicts in BiH. Biroving on November 25th, in addition to rationality, is proposed for the reason that the said date should indicate the fact that BiH was created as a new state with an internal structure, which has significantly changed the view of previous periods of its history by accepting the General Framework Agreement. Article 2 It is also amended, so Amendment 2: New Year's Eve is celebrated on January 1st and 2nd, and May 1st. The 21st day of BiH statehood is celebrated for 31st day only. If celebration days fall on Sunday, the holiday is transferred to the next working day. Explanation. The first of May, almost all over the world, is celebrated for only one day and there is no reason for its expansion to increase to 2 May and such a large number of holidays in BiH, is thought of as entity holidays. Given that the weekday of the week's vacation is established by labour law, it should be possible to pass on Sunday's holidays to the next working day, allow citizens to mark holidays as special days, with a special occasion. Amendment 3. Article 3 is amended and reads: “The persons elected, appointed, or employed by joint bodies and institutions or organisations of BiH have the right to refrain from working on holidays established by the law of the entity in which they have permanent residence, or in which their families are located. The BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the entity governments, will determine in the event of a legitimate need which authorities, institutions or organisations are obliged to work on the holidays of BiH as well as on the scale of the work. I think the explanation stands. The proposal for this law must finally resolve issues relating to the holidays in eating entities and the status of workers in common bodies on the other hand. Because the holidays in entities are mainly related to events of religious, or traditional, or general character, i.e. they have a characteristic of family holiday, i.e. The holidays that are traditionally conducted within family, friends, neighbors have no reason not to allow those mentioned in the previous amendment, especially if they are persons who are separated from their families because of the nature of the work. These were my amendments, and I think that today through this debate, we can reach the BiH holiday law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u392	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Anyone else want to talk? He doesn't want to. As much as I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure, but I have here and help, I think we've done this job in the first reading of the law mentioned and he's adopted in this sense in the first reading. We go on now and the amendments are discussed in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u393	I suggest, therefore, that this story of mine does not then have the amendment content, but that it serves as a basis for the proposer to have this in mind and go with the final text to get to the final text of the law faster. I'm asking you to accept that. So it's not an amendment, it's a general debate that I call on the promoter to have this in mind that it goes with the final text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u394	Thank you very much. That's already an explanation and better. Mr. Tokić got his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u395	Chairman, gentlemen of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to reiterate that this law is also from the previous 32 term. I am not the only promoter, among other things, is the promoter and distinguished colleague Ivo Divković. I would accept this as useful suggestions for making one law that could define holidays acceptable to all three Bosnian Herzegovina peoples and citizens of BiH, and in this context I am willing to co-operate to define the proposal, the text of the law for second reading, when we will have the opportunity to make a direct amendment statement, possibly on things that were not included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u396	I thank Mr. Tokić, it's all clear now. So we can go to the next item on the agenda. Ad.5. The proposal for a law on the rights of ethnic and national communities or minorities – is proposed by the envoy Ibrahim Spahić and you have received this law. You have also received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and this law has been applied to us by Article 90. Our rules of procedure. I also invite you to a previous principle debate on this law. Is anyone picking up? Here you go, Mr. Ilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u397	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, reading the draft law on the rights of ethnic and national communities in BiH, I would really like to welcome Mr Spahić's initiative to give BiH one such law and that, as a democratic state that wants to be an integral part of Europe and European communities, we should respect everything that is the positive achievements of modern civilization and that we also in our law allow representatives of other peoples and other communities to feel as equal and free people within BiH and that they can achieve all their human and civil rights as well as constituent peoples. But there's always a risk when it comes down to someone being left out, so I'd have a reserve, when it comes to this Article 2 that we might be risking that if we stayed like this in an election text to hurt someone, leaving out, and as far as I know, there are some other people here who aren't counted. First of all the Arab peoples. So, all in all, I'd like to support the proposal and support the adoption of a law like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u398	I thank Mr. Ilić. Is anyone else answering for word? If no one answers, and I see so, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u399	Dear colleagues, I, reading this law, have understood and I also welcome the initiative as such, I realized that basically Mr Spahić will, I would say that they mutilate what the conventions have prescribed on the protection of human rights, in a way 33 legal frameworks in BiH, and in that sense I am so law and understood. Because this law basically has a few things that are more decidently being discussed, the rest is being called to the convention, etc. I would help if Mr Spahić could do so in the final text of the law that will come here in the form of a proposal, or another reading in Article 6. He drew attention to one fact inaccuracy. In Article 6, the statute of the municipality, city, canton or entity may be prescribed, etc. I'm still not reading. Canton and entity don't have statutes they have constitutions, so it's just because of the formulation. It needs a different formulation. The statutes have municipalities and the city and the canton and entity have constitutions, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u400	Thank you, Mr. Divković. Gospodn Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u401	Given that it is a reading process, I will accept Mr. Ilić and Mr. Divković's remarks and the fact that this Committee on Constitutional Affairs has passed, established that there is a constitutional basis, found that it can be given in further procedure to the House of Peoples, because you have informed us about it, I will only say that here in addition to these remarks we need to do some more work, of course languages, edit it legally, fix it, but essentially in the first reading. It's here in the first term that it's about so-called. a binding declaration of human rights which regulates and rights relating to members of national, ethnic and religious communities, etc. Secondly, when it comes to the law of Article 2 that it harmonises what is actually a legal protection of the interests of national minorities, with the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities in the Council of Europe. As for Article 3, I would like to point out that this law is really very clear and very short. In fact, it needs to show one different nature of the Bosnian Herzegovina society and it is understood that everything that is the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and other conventions on the protection of regional minority languages will be incorporated here in another reading and therefore I would conclude this debate by, respecting the whole discussion, preparing for the final adoption of this law at the next session of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u402	I thank Mr Spahić. If no one's answered again, it's not. I invite you to come forward again, in accordance with Rule 90 of our Rules of Procedure, are we to accept the debate in the details of the members? We did. Unanimity. I thank you. We can move to debate if someone wants to debate in particular in individuals, if not, let's go, the promoter suggested another reading. Thank you. A proposal is being accepted. As far as I'm concerned, I can see you're in agreement. It's acceptable, the law goes into second reading and we're now. 34 Ad.6. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH -- the proposal of the Council of Ministers -- is the same procedure. It's also a law that we treat under Rule 90 of our Rules of Procedure. You've been given the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I also invite you to discuss the principles. Is anyone picking up? Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u403	Fellow delegates, I would just like to help with some remarks, therefore, not amendments, but some remarks from the Council of Ministers to come to the final text of the motionor. Article 2. I think it is necessary to formulate a part of the text relating to it, which reads: "it encourages and participates in developing relations with BiH emigrants". Since there are certain competencies and entities in this sphere, it is therefore necessary to clarify, that is, something clearer. I suggest that Article 3 be deleted. Because it also enters entity jurisdiction. In Article 4. The text of the consumer protection policy to delete, and instead to go to the text of coordination in consumer protection, bearing in mind that consumer protection policy is led not only by the Council of Ministers but also at the level of the government entities, also leads to such policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u404	Thank you. Mr. Tokič.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u405	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, or representatives of the House of Peoples, given that this is a principle debate, I would only support and ask the Council of Ministers to amend the existing Council of Ministers Act and to extend the mandate of the Council of Ministers. I think we need to get into more serious stages where we won't be able to see if in eight months, something crucial can happen but exchangeability on the national key of the Council of Ministers' chairman to be in line with that with the term of office. So, what is the mandate of the Council of Ministers to rotate from the order of different constituent nations for the full term of office. I think it is the spirit of the Constitution of BiH, I think it will give us a more effective Council of Ministers, and in a certain way create more stable assumptions, because I guess we came out of the period when we were afraid that something dramatic would happen in eight months and that someone would change a certain balance of relations, so much before the exchange of personnel by national principle was defined in the constitution of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly and in the BiH Presidency. So my suggestion is that the chairman's office is tied up for the entire term of office, because otherwise we will have a situation that every eight months, defacto, respecting the BiH Constitution, we are actually voting, defacto, again the Council of BiH, which is not good. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u406	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. Ivo Divković answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u407	Because of the stenogram, I just want to comment on this about Article 3. I am, in fact, in my view that absolutely air space control and frequency control are in my hands, should be in the hands of the Ministry of Communications, civil affairs and this creates preconditions for the creation of public corporations, which are foreseen by the Dayton Agreement and which should be slowed, among other things, about the control of airspace and the distribution of frequencies.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u408	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić pa Spahić. Špirić is also a delegate, Špirić is closer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u409	I apologize to Mr Špirić, I asked earlier, firstly I would like to say that it is a good thing that the Council of Ministers, on the trail of its experiences, in certain ministries, is searching for powers that can in some ways be verified as an executive authority, to do its job, in line with the needs and programme that Mr Matić has presented which we have approved. Secondly, what I would like to say is that, I don't think, without questioning different interventions related to the abuses of these two ministries, i.e. three ministries, which are the Treasury, the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, specify their functions, so basically I support it, and I think it's simply a rationalisation of policy in the executive government and that it's useful. On the other hand, I am quite certain that, since this proposal has been sent by the Council of Ministers, there is a consensus in the Council of Ministers on the changes in these three ministries and its functions, which means that I assume that appropriate consultations have been provided with institutions that would be interested in taking over certain responsibilities from a particular area. What especially motivates me to answer the word, is the shortest of the following. I believe, as I said at the beginning, it is necessary that we in the House of Nature and the House of Representatives decide whether we will have an executive authority, whatever they call it that will work in BiH's interest or we will have one structure that will not be able to carry out our tasks in accordance with the powers they have so far or which we are now giving them. Let us take all of this to be accepted by Article 1, Article 2, 3, 4, and 5, and today this law is adopted, as if it were also accepted in the House of Representatives. The internal organisation of the Council of Ministers is absolutely not responding to what the competencies are today in the Council of Ministers or in these additional competencies. Therefore, it is a direct proposal and a call as well as a delegate and as a man who thinks it is necessary to provide some qualified parliamentary circle and 36 majority and for this decision, and I would like to initiate, simply the need to make changes and additions or a whole new law on the Council of Ministers, which would allow what we achieve consensus in the BiH Parliament and in accordance with all procedures throughout BiH to be expressed in the Council of Ministers and to do our job. This means practically, that it is not just about the term of office which is tied to the election cycle chairman, because nowhere in the world is it going to be given in 3 or 4 months, as it would have turned out by that logic of things, if that change was not adopted on 23rd somewhere or 26. I don't know the exact date, there would be a rotation of this change at the head of the Council of Ministers. Until then we have time, underlining my political balance is next. It doesn't matter to us just to adopt it by the 23rd. Six. The electoral law is to grant us entry into the Council of Europe under a certain procedure, July, September, January, but it is our necessary and fundamental obligation to build a structure of government that meets the interests and needs of citizens and this Parliament. Therefore, I am now officially asking that the Council of Ministers, to begin the procedure, if, of course, it can, and I think that, as far as I know about the Rules of Procedure, any MP and the club can and may the whole home, I would like to refer it to one, ask that a new law be passed and the Council of Ministers Act be amended, in which the Council of Ministers' internal organisation would practically be attached directly to the programme that we approved to Mr Matić. That's my official request. I can say that I could explain what this means practically, and that would be prejudged by a legal act. On the other hand, I think there's a possibility that the next few days in the procedure we'll show up with a proposal for a new law, but I don't think this kind of partial resolution of the three ministries is working out. I suggest that we go to accept this as a pariative solution and in the future go to the construction of a new law on the Council ofminsitarians.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u410	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute that every MP and delegate is entitled to their own initiative. I think the draft law on amendments and additions to the law that we have received from the Council of Ministers is a product and their reflection on what can be done at this time. The Council of Ministers is probably also having different thoughts on whether the new law should be extended, jurisdiction, etc. I think that parity, consensus and rotation are the principles on which BiH should be allowed to function, and that often reaching out to take place by the Council of Mines, the first government of BiH will impair political and economic life in BiH. I think such demands are legal, but they are not good for the economic situation of BiH. It should allow the state to function on the principles defined by the Constitution. It's not the same Council of Ministers and Government. Therefore, political agreement must be reached. I know that the Alliance for Change announces these... but it must be taken care of, I am for respect and principles of both civil and national, and you know how much trouble we have had to balance it in the past session, if, say, here comes now, here, if that were to happen, a member of the Presidency to be a Hrvat, the President of the Council of Ministers would remain a Hrvat, the President of the People's House would be a Hrvat. I'm not saying anything wrong, of course, that the Croatian component does not get it wrong, but the issues in BiH are sensitive and must be observed with due attention. No matter what anyone 37 would like. Let's just say I wish there hadn't been a war in BiH. And that wasn't up to me. The war in BiH has disrupted some of the dice that were. The Dayton Peace Agreement also set out differently the territorial arrangement of BiH. I'm just saying that such moves must have a comfortable parliamentary majority. It is not a problem when a man remains a delegate -- a minority MP, when laws get legal form, but a comfortable majority must be provided so that we do not have political crises that further generate the economic crisis and bring BiH to the brink of economic collapse. You know, and pessimists in the economy seem to be, in fact, optimistic, beginning to agree that, in the economic situation, they're threatening the collapse of both entities. I guess the time has come for us to take this a little more seriously. So, I don't dispute anyone's initiative, but what we're saying has to have a dose of seriousness in that sense that behind every move, we predict what kind of clues he's leaving on the ground. I also have to show you that often reaching, which is also legal for constitutional changes, is a matter of cramping. I'm only interested in what we don't allow to function in Dayton BiH, that people in it live better economically and that such political opportunities are created, let's say where other changes will be possible. I am telling you that the proposals I hear today will create a part of the political problems, not because Nikola Špirić thinks differently. I'll make my point. But it cannot be the same government of BiH without the political consent of the Council of Ministers. So I ask that this consent be found to get into this. So, before that agreement is found, even if such changes are announced. In that sense, I hope you understand me. So, I think the Council of Ministers was aware of the situation and if it had gone like this, I would say cosmetic or minimal corrections to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u412	Thank you. Mr. Tokić, blames the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u413	Not entering the qualification he said about these initiatives, I would only remind Mr Špirić that, my initiative to lift the rotation, and I will add that what he pointed out is consensus and parity, is not a constitutional category, so that the formulation let the Council of Ministers work in accordance with the Constitution is not true. In the Constitution there is no defined parity or consensus or rotation, and I was only talking about rotation. And let me feel free to think that, among other things, the Council of Ministers cannot function because there is no government in the world, however this Council of Ministers plays for me, it is perceived as an executive structure of government. It's exactly the Constitutional Council of Ministers. But, as you did not listen to me say, to stop speaking to the joint institutions in free interpretation, I can call it a government, because in the Dayton Peace Agreement, one place is talking about the BiH government, they could not profunk, because simply there is no term of office of three months. It doesn't change, it's not just the rotating chairman's rotation, but when the chairman changes, we're going to have to vote all the ministers and all the deputies again, and in that context, I'd be begging only for the accuracy of the allegations and not calling on 38 of the Constitution where it doesn't stand. At the same time, I would point out that the formulation of a common initiative for the change of the Constitution, I said for this speaker that the only legitimate initiatives for the amendments to the Constitution are initiatives that arrive in the BiH Prlamentary Assembly and only one such initiative came to change the constitution a few weeks ago. The other initiatives have not arrived, but I would ask that otherwise the atmosphere, in which someone protects BiH, protects the RS as a foll someone wants to abolish the RS and someone who is chasing the Folsom not to shut down, we leave. We are the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which must make BiH institutions more efficient. In this context, and only in this context was my initiative that the rotation as an inadequate form of the executive structure of the BiH Council of Ministers does not remain on, but let the Council of Ministers evaluate, as much as before, I think it should be assessed, because this is how the Council of Ministers with constant rotations represents the rest of the concept of power that we want to change, because we have sworn to change and I think these are very important changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u414	I thank Mr. Tokić. He has Špirić pa Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been clear and told not to dispute legal initiatives. I must now say that no one should be explained in BiH that changes are necessary and that they are coming. Changes must be provided for more total parliamentary majority, so as not to cause further earthquakes in the whole of politics and economy. It is true that this is not constitutionally defined, but it is in the rules of procedure and for the Rules of Procedure there are procedures, procedures as the Rules of Procedure changes. I know that the thing is, you don't have to explain to me that in creating conditions that the BiH government is being formed, that every institution that is in the power of the Council of Ministers has an intervention to grow into a new ministry, so it's rare to mention the Ministry of Transport, the police, the military, etc. I do not dispute legal requirements, but serious people in BiH will assess whether it is mature time from an economic and political point of view that people do not leave this country to make such changes or that it is better to deal with economic development that people live well and that parliamentary support is created for such a kind of change. I don't slow down any legal initiative, but you can't, you can't forbid us from projecting what it means. I want to believe that the Council of Ministers is conscious of the moment and the environment in which BiH is located. I must tell you that from day to day, there has never been a more critical time than it is today and from the point of view of politics and economy. If we suffocating a tight political environment, and he's psuting like that, because everyone seems to be talking about a majority, if that majority existed, today we'd know who the opposition in BiH is. So there is no, and in such conditions, sensitive and political, it is not good to chat too much besides the problems that follow BiH. Of course, there are conditions to be created, but every announcement, I assure you, I do move as you do, that every announcement of change, which affects some relationships, creates an additional cramp. We can laugh, but our demands to change the Constitution, our demands to change MPs won't bring the workers of the Ironworks back to Željezar, not the Kreka miners, not the Ljubije miners, they won't bring the workers back to production, they won't feed the pensioners, which we don't do. What's this? I can't figure it out, so we can't let it work out something that works. Who says the Council of Ministers can't function on the principle of rotation? How can he not? Eight months. What can't it be about? The Alliance has announced it will have a mandate, that's quite clear. The PDP is fostering a civil concept that I respect. He says we don't want him to be Bošnjak. We want 39 to remain Hrvat. It's a legitimate right. Be careful, you must exercise this legitimate right to do no harm to the rights of the Durgians. When there is a predominant civil concept in BiH, there will be no debates like this, and until as long as we have a close combination of national and civil, I assure you that it is not good for the BiH economy, rather than a slow initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u416	Mr. Novaković, the replica is Novaković, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u417	You know what, I've heard this phone booth a lot today and I've heard it from before that I don't know these changes and it won't bring the workers back, it won't help the economic situation, fix the situation, etc. I'm telling you the opposite. Status quo won't fix it and won't bring back workers, etc. The changes will. If this condition could have brought the workers back, it would have returned. So I have the opposite view.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u418	Thank you. Replica then Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u419	I appreciate ladies and gentlemen what Mr. Divković says, but we need to be aware of the situation that there has been a change in power when. When there was a change in the concept of government in BiH. There's been a change, not now, we've taken over, the Alliance has taken over at entity level, at the level of joint institutions, etc. Do citizens and peoples feel better economic and political? There's been a change. There have been... political opportunities in BiH, gentlemen. Do we really want to get over it and blur people's eyes and keep people from seeing it? I am for change for the better. No problem at all, you have this easy deal with me, but we can't if these changes aren't going to say they're good. I don't know what the status quo is if the Alliance has a majority, it's not the status quo, but if it hasn't agreed to have a majority. If that's a tight situation, then please let us know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u420	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u421	I just wanted to correct one quote, but there was a little more replica, so then, here's one statement said, and that's that we should abandon the concept of entity protection, or one to defend the entities of others not to defend them, etc. We here, at least in the House of Peoples, are delegated in front of, therefore, we are delegated in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and in that sense it is quite clear what our mission is, of course, respecting, that you do not misunderstood me, that task, that we have according to the National Assembly of Obligations, not the task but the obligation to the National Assembly before which we are delegated. Therefore, we must in this context and talk and in this context we must also discuss and in this context we must also work on the House of Peoples. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u422	Thank you very much. Replica Tokić, Spahić quit.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u423	As for Mr Špirić's discussion, in order not to gain someone, especially from the media, wrong impression, Mr Špirić's official list of Mladen Ivanić supports the Alijansa, it is clearly seen in these discussions, but I would like to explain to the gentleman, I figuratively stated that we should get out of these stories, not in a way that we should not protect national interests, but rather create a tension that simply does not exist. I wanted you to in a certain way Anticipate and say what the Republic of Croatia has to say. Never in the Republic of Croatia will end either the RS or the Federation, it is our internal issue and that perhaps they should not be so insensitive, although I belong to the category of people that from neighbouring countries, they should deal with their issues rather than internal issues, so I had no intention of suggesting that there is no need to protect constitutional order and national interests. We just didn't understand each other, but I think there's fog being created, because who's just doing it, one wants to put an end to it, one who defends and creates an illusion of how something is done, and in fact everything is stagnating and everything is in the status quo, which is well defined by Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u424	Dear colleagues, Mr. Špirić asked for a replica. I say after this replica we go on.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u425	I'd just like to be clear. Whether it's official or unofficial. I'd like to see the members of the Alliance signed to avoid a trap that's a member and who's not. I am in league with the PDP and it was a pre-election coalition as the Democratic Party for Banja Luka Krajina. If it's a PDP, which doesn't show the Alliance's signatures. So you hide it like it's some kind of creature that needs to be hidden from the people. Clearly, she's promoting herself if she's wearing well. Which you must not promote your alliance, or the alliance I support or do not support is irrelevant. I want to see if there's a majority or not, so we don't lie to the people. The second thing, it's not about BiH's status quo. I say the situation was better in BiH five months ago. That's what the statistics tell you. We can talk about how SDA, HDZ, SDS is the source of its evil, tell the story to the people, etc., you know when they'll trust us when we fix the situation economically. When people say, I can live in BiH, I can live off my work, we've got dysgins. I'm in favour of promoting the Alliance, but you don't seem to be members of the Alliance. Here, let's say I support change. I want to know what members of the Alliance are. I want to have a signature when someone asks me and I say I'm in league with that and that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u426	Your replica is already spoken, it doesn't belong to a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u427	When I get the signature of the party where I'm in the coalition that he's a member of the Alliance. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u428	Comrade Špirić, this does not belong to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u429	It's falling right off.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u430	It doesn't belong. Thank you very much. I thank you for accepting my suggestion to move on. Let us be clear whether we are in favour of a debate in the individuals on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers Act and thus release this law into the second reading procedure. Who's in? Unanimity. Thank you very much. The law goes to another reading. Ad.7. The Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers We are with the BiH Associations and Foundations Act – is a proposal from the Council of Ministers, also on the first issue, also on Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I also remind you that you have received a report from the Constitutional-First Commission and I call on you to discuss in principle. Is anyone there? There isn't. Should we make it clear that this law too lets the limbs mock reading, by declaring that we will accept the discussion of individuals. Here you go. First reading. Do you want to discuss it? Who's in? 11 Who is against or abstention? 12 I thank. They all are. Thank you. So we accepted this discussion of details, i.e. about members, this law is directed to another reading unless someone insists on discussing details. Take out Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u431	Dema and gentlemen, we have accepted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission that there is a constitutional basis for this law, but we have agreed that the law bears the title of the Law on Associations and Foundations in BiH. It was the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and it would be good if we had received it in time and had approached that change. Some of them only won now. The explanation, which I insist on, is, according to the proposed draft, that is, the name of the law, it could be given the false impression that it is associations and foundations formed by BiH rather than the real goal of laying down conditions for the registrar and the work of the association and the foundations formed in BiH. Then, in Article 7(3), I propose that this member be changed and read: “The name of the registered association or foundation must be in one of the three official languages used in BiH. This explanation stands for the reason it collects the variant. 42 Therefore, it is enough to be published in one of the languages to enter the phase, so in one of the official languages in BiH.” I propose that Article 8 be changed and read: “Under the term of the ministry under quotes, which is used by this law, the relevant entity ministry is authorized by entity regulations. Explanation. Entities are members of Article 3. Item 2 e) The Constitution of BiH must fulfil all conditions for the application of international legal standards, human rights and basic freedoms under Article 2. The BiH Constitution, with a point and) precise emphasis on the freedom of peaceful gatherings of association. In addition to these associations and foundations, not only are they regulated by entity regulations but they have long functioned in accordance with the same, and there is no need for this entity's competence to be transferred to the authority of BiH, nor has the proposing in his explanation expressed any lack of confidence in the entity bodies related to these associations." I propose that Article 15 be changed and read as follows: “Registration can establish its criteria for the admission of zu membership subject to self-limits in terms of the prohibition of discrimination established by the Constitution of BiH and the laws of the entities”. I'm considering it. The area is within the jurisdiction of entity legislation that must be in accordance with the BiH Constitution, which accurately determines human rights and fundamental freedoms. I suggest, too, Amendment 5. For Article 28(2) Behind the words of the laws to delete the words of BiH, instead to enter the words "in Bosnia and Herzegovina", relating to the name of the law. Then, article 29th, paragraph 1, to delete BiH's words for the same reason. Then, member of the 44th in front of the words "The Official Messenger of BiH", add the words "to the official messengers of the entity. In Article 52. Position 4 in front of the word “Operation Messenger of BiH”, add the words “officer to the official messengers of the entity”, and delete Article 65 so that the existing member 57 becomes a member of the 56th. So this in the context of this principle debate, I ask the Council of Ministers to, probably get a stenogram, to simply state what of these amendments can enter into the law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u432	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. If no one ever hears from you again, I suggest we refer this law to another reading, and once again I call on you to plead so, even though we have adopted the individual debate, but here, once again. Once again, please choose to make a statement. We sent it, so the second reading is fine. Let's go see where we are now. We're on a deal now. Before us is an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Federal Council of Switzerland on the readmission of BiH citizens and citizens of Switzerland, the Re-acceptation Agreement The Zatupnica Dom has given its consent to this agreement. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. 43 Does anyone want to take part in the mood? If not, who is it to give consent to the ratification of that agreement? Unanimity. Therefore, this agreement has been ratified. We are going to the Treaty on the State Border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, as well as the opinion of information on the Treaty on the State Border between the Republic of Croatia and BiH and the Agreement on Priorities in the Implementation of the Treaty Does anyone here come forward? If not, I invite you to vote. Who is it, to give consent to the ratification of this contract? Mr Spahić, please vote. Unanimity. Thank you very much. We are at the next point, which is the Unsupervised and Protected Investment Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Greece The House of Representatives has given its consent to this agreement. Anybody want to talk about him? Here, Mr. Divković said the appropriate commission gave its consent. Thank you, it's very important information, of course, I've failed to tell her. Because no one's answering for a word. Who is it to give consent to ratify the agreement. Unanimity. Thank you very much. The social security agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, the House of Representatives, also agreed. The Commission, too. Anybody want to discuss it? He doesn't want to. Great, let's go fast, which is important. Who's to ratify this contract? Thank you and we're done. Unanimity. Divković did it with his hand. Thank you. The Treaty on Free Trade between BiH and the Republic of Croatia with the Protocol on the definition of the concept of "original product" and ways of administrative co-operation with Annexes I-IV and with the minutes of consent, the House of Representatives agreed. The Commission discussed it. It has the opinion of the Commission. Does Mr. Ilič want to talk?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u433	On the basis of Articles 25.1.g) and 79.2. The Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, discussed the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the definition of the concept of products of origin and methods of administrative co-operation with the Annexes of I-IV and 44 minutes of consent and submitted by the Chairman of the People's Republic of Croatia next report, means that I do not fully read this contract, as called in full name, and gives the opinion that the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should be given consent to ratifying this Treaty, provided that the competent body of the Council of Ministers, the Veterinary Department, urgently initiates the procedure for signing the Agreement on Veterinary Cooperation with the Republic of Croatia, because, currently, under this Treaty on Trade, there is no possibility of exporting animals and products of animal origin from BiH to the Republic of Croatia, and that every subsequent free trade agreement in its content or contribution must have an agreement on veterinary co-operation, in order not only to regulate certain products. So, if there are these contracts with other countries that have this clause.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u434	Thank you very much, Mr. Ilić. Mr. Špirić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u435	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know, there's a contract here. Are we ratifying the contract? The agenda point is formulated so I don't know what the contract means or what the ratification means.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u436	We give consent to ratification.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u437	Okay. I know that in the previous meeting of the Council of Ministers in which I was, quite seriously worked on this contract with the authorities between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. I, in the framework of my debate at the Council of Ministers, expressed my position and today I stand on the view that the Treaty on Free Trade between BiH and the Republic of Croatia at the same time should either define these relations with the SRJ for BiH. Such a contract without a contract with Yugoslavia means, economically, Croatia at Drina in economic terms. I ask you, since diplomatic relations have been established with Belgrade, and earlier with Zagreb, for the sake of BiH, to assign the Council of Ministers to the five-day term they need to reach this contract and with Belgrade so that we can ratify these contracts. I must tell you, at the time we signed the Free Trade Agreement with Croatia, a real trade war between BiH and Croatia was seen behind the eyes of the public. When we were in Zagreb and that day seemed to be ratified, the agreement was waged at the border over the ban on importing cattle and cattle into Croatia for foot-and-mouth disease and if the disease was not recorded in BiH, which would say that a country that has a stronger economy benefiting from different contracts, which is quite logical. So I want to get into the same plane, when the trade agreements are at stake, we don't have two neighbors. So, Belgrade and Zagreb, Croatia and Yugoslavia, it is in BiH's interest. Unfortunately, in the then Council of Ministers, only Mr Kurtović, who was the minister, understood my message and said it was urgent to work on. It's been three or four months since I've seen any valid agreement. Please, we must have an official memo for Yugoslavia, not such an agreement with BiH, when I have it I will vote immediately for the ratification of this agreement, but we must have a story 45, not a political one, but a memo. The Yugoslav government doesn't want a trade agreement with BiH which makes us...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u438	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Replica Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u439	I really must today, and if it's not a practice, I often replicate Mr. Špirić. Mr Špirić doesn't mean anything to Croatia until Drina. And you've decidently said that. The agreement basically means what it says, which is that BiH goods are freed from all customs and VAT on their import into Croatia. Which means that the Croatian market is fully opened for BiH goods, while other seniors have certain customs barriers, which will be reduced as agreed in the next period and let us interpret things as they are rather than use the media here to throw out some of their structures that are basically not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u440	It's a replica on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u441	I ask you, simply, that I do not know what kind of conclusion to draw, I speak in the interest of BiH, I am less interested in this case in Belgrade and Zagreb and replicas that can sometimes be spoken from Belgrade and sometimes from Zagreb. I know what the trade agreement is, because I took part in writing it. If BiH products are said to go to Croatia without customs, okay. We need to be aware of what BiH is producing so it can perform. There are reliefs for products from Croatia in BiH, in the first, second and third years. In order not to wage a trade war within BiH, so as not to be led by Belgrade and Zagreb, because Belgrade products, i.e. Serbian or Yugoslavia, will have to go with the date on the BiH market, the price will pay BiH. So I was not in the interest of Belgrade or Zagreb, but of the state in which I am sitting. Please, my discussion was in that sense. I know exactly the law member by member. It is not my intention to gloat here in front of the media, but I must tell you that the day we signed the agreement is an open trade war, that Croatia has banned imports. That's true. I don't have anything to say in front of the media, when I tell the truth, then tell me, Mr. Špirić, you're telling the truth, but that's economic. Well, I guess I don't need to interpret what a stronger economy means to take on a smaller economy and what it means to conflict another economy in the same space.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u442	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u443	First of all, Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that we give consent to the ratification of this agreement. So, another thing I would like to say, I hope that soon BiH will live in the customs union and will create conditions in the region that thanks to the second table chairing on Euro-economic issues in the Stability Pact, it will ensure that these issues are faceless. Otherwise, as far as Croatia is concerned with Drina, I thought 46 Mr Špirić would say both SRJ or Serbia to the UN, and since he did not say that he obviously thought of other processes and that he was fighting for BiH and for the customs union throughout the area. Therefore, let us ratify this, and when the Presidency submits a report on the agreements with the SRJ we will probably see that there are still solutions to the good and for the entire interest of this region and BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u444	Thank you very much. It's a replicator.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u445	I don't know if Ibro from my debate could conclude this that I am against Serbia's policy to the Union, as I am against it, and I said in the economic sense, Mr Spahić. I'm saying, I'm asking you to speak in the interest of the state we belong to, not who you like. I don't care about the symatia in a political sense, and we in this House need to talk about it. Therefore, I was just saying what would be good and what was in the interest of Parliament and the state to which we belong. What is adopted by the majority will be valid.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u446	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. I was just about to call for a plea of ratification.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u447	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but since there was one proposal here for Mr. Špirić, I'm looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u448	Five minutes break, gentlemen. Sir, do you have anything new to say? You asked for a break, Novaković. [[PAUZA]] Let's go to the vote. A free trade agreement between BiH and Croatia. Who's to give consent to ratify this contract? - 12 Who's against it? Abstained – 1 abstention, 2 abstentions pardon. 12 and 2 were 14 before man got tired. So we gave consent to ratification. I'm almost there. I just want to remind you that we also had the opinion of the Foreign Trade Commission here and that this opinion should be respected and treated as it is written and I think it is necessary to agree with the discussion that it is desirable to approach, when it comes to the time of signing such a contract and with the SRJ. Let's move on. 47 We are at the point Report on the work of the Commission to consider the status of persons naturalised after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the Constitution of BiH The House of Representatives adopted this. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, remarks on this. I do not think this is the way in which both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are reported, and I am saying this for the reasons why I know what was the reason to launch the search for this report. You know what parliamentary debates we have led in the Representative Council of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, related to naturalised citizens of BiH and entities of the Federation of BiH and RS. I have to tell you that the situation is both comical and tragic, and I don't know what anyone in these reports can conclude, but I know well that I am then an MP and then came up with a report that says something else. I'll share these reports with the press so you can see how information can be obtained if anyone wants to. This is a cover, and it is my suggestion that we seek the replacement of the commission, which sends such reports, which must be ready to inform both Members of the Houses objectively, so to inform how many naturalized citizens there are, what is their structure by country? What did the RS entity do to the Federation entity and to simply take a stand as delegates. I've got you, I've managed to get these names from 1 to 266 I'm going to share it, of course, the journalists can take it and you can delegate it and see what kind of reports we get. I don't know if anyone asked for a report like this. I ask you to return this report and supplement the structure of the naturalised citizens of BiH from the date, by entities and to seek a replacement commission that is in no condition, from which date is this? I think since 92 years of age, he has submitted a report on BiH's admitted citizenship. You know what they won't do? Because they've done a lot of things in both entities, so they've naturalized only citizens from Islamic countries, here I'm going to give you a list, probably, I guess in RS are naturalized by someone else. But that also speaks of the character of the relationship that existed before, only that many cannot talk about it, because they are also direct actors of such events and I beg you, I am prepared to give this report and ask for a supplement of the report. Thank you very much and for changing the commission because this committee is unable to make the report we are looking for after this report, according to my assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u450	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Who's calling? Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Špirić. Let's see. Here we have, here's a report on a report, which we can only accept to the knowledge that we can adopt or not adopt. We now have a concrete proposal from Mr Špirić to reject this report and continue to look for the commission's shift, it's not ours, it's probably not our question, because we haven't even appointed a commission, here it's just said, but it can't produce any consequences here. However, to be determined according to the proposal to reject this report and to request a new one with lists. I, gentlemen, think I'm working on the Rules of Procedure, if I ask to make a statement about Mr Špirić's proposal or vice versa. Here, I just have one. That's what we are. You didn't listen to your colleague Spahić. I've already removed 48 as a possibility it can't. The proposal is to drop this report and ask for a new list. Who's to suggest that, let's see, I think it's democratic to make a statement about the material that we've been offered or vice versa. I'm calling you now, here's the question. We don't have to vote on it. Here's a Genjac to try and find a way out.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u451	We can get a report from the commission that's in charge of this and what the Dayton Agreement has done. The question is what is the commission's mandate and what are we asking the commission to do? We can ask the commission for a list of all the names, we can search for combat, we can look for analysis. I think it would be good to ask what we're interested in before any statement by the Commission's representatives. This kind of help to the commission, the list of names, can be delivered to the commission, and that it has in mind, but it is an overwhelming question of what we want from the commission and what is the mandate of the commission and I think we should ask the representative of the commission about the issues that we are interested in. Afterwards, adopt the Commission's report and other issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u452	Here you go. Do you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u453	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am Bakir Dautbašić, chairman of the Commission for the review of the status of naturalised persons after 6 April of '92, before the degree of force of the BiH Constitution. We have decidently handled what we have been dealing with in the law of the scheduled term of office for 18 months. Since our commission only processed about 60 to 65% of the items received, we could not show up with final names, because there will certainly be another 4,000 solutions that we have yet to process. Our job, according to the law, was to consider the legality of these people. So, were they admitted to citizenship by letter of law in this period. Any numbering by any, by any parameter, we are not legally determined. Of course, the lists, this home certainly can get any list. They may be delivered only after the proceedings have been completed, because our proceedings are not yet completed. We need to process, say over 4,000 items we need to get from the Foreign Ministry. So, the solutions that will be delivered to us by the person who was admitted to our diplomatic consular network. So, from Vienna, Istanbul, New York, etc. Thus, lists would be unrealistic if such lists were not delivered. However, we all feel that such lists should only be sent after the completion of our work. Both this home and the Council of Ministers and any other body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u454	Thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss it. Novaković. We have a way out, of course. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u455	Since the commission, as the chairman said, finished 60% of the work she had on the job, I think it would be a good idea to consider this report when this job is done. And in that sense, I suggest, it means that today we are not adopting but that we should do so when the commission is done delivering a final report to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u456	I think it's help, but it is help, but my opinion is different.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u457	Ladies and gentlemen, this commission has a difficult task I know about. I know that this commission is not easy, and the report's message will be political content, like this report, that decisions have not been made unanimously, that the representatives of the Bosniak people and the international community think one thing, and representatives of the Croatian and Serbian people in the commission think the other. It's all about what I said we were looking for structure. You have those reports. For disputed is the authority of whose authority. And that's quite clear. I am interested in the structure of naturalised citizens of BiH and by entity principle, so that everyone sends a report. We need to get into a situation where we know what 5 or 10 naturalised BiH citizens were doing in BiH, whether they were sharing cookies, carrying cookies, helping the population, what they were doing. What is their credit and on what basis they got citizenship. That's the point. It's not the point, I don't care what it's called, but I beg you, we have this request for two and a half years, so the commission can file this report for us. This is embarrassing for BiH, believe me. This report will bring happiness to neither the commission nor BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u458	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. There's no one left. I'm calling you, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u459	I apologize for taking the time, but our legal obligation was to file a report after 18 months. So we had to submit a report to the Parliamentary Assembly and, to meet the legislator and the Council of Ministers, what we have done so far. We stated that out of the 11,000 objects that we're going to process, that we've processed between 60% and 65%, that we've precisely seduced who was received from where he was received and how he was received, and for that reason this report is what it is, because the law required us to present him after 18 months.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u460	Thank you very much. I propose that we plead on this report, accept it but with the obligation of the commission to in its next report us live on the structure of the citizens admitted in this way that Mr Špirić spoke of. 50 Which is to accept such a report with the commission's obligation to do so anyway? Please, gentlemen, vote. - Nine for it. Which one? - Five against. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the commission's report is supported by obligation, and I don't think there's any ethnicity here. The Commission's report, therefore, is supported, under the obligation to comply with what we spoke about by our colleagues, following its report. We've finished discussing the commission's report. She's finished at first, my colleague. Your proposal was to refuse. We'll vote on your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u461	Ladies and gentlemen, within the same point of the agenda, perhaps a tired head, in the interest of the state I belong to, I asked that the report be made up by the structure of naturalized citizens, to get that report. I beg you, really, we can go through these reports like this, we'll finish the agenda and go home and finish our delegate commitment, the consequences come later. I'm looking for a new report with the structure. Do you agree with that or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u462	kolega Špirić, that's exactly the conclusion when it comes to order and the commission is working on certain firsts, obviously, if not under the law of that commission I don't know, the moment my colleague, when he comes in for a new report, the conclusion was adopted precisely, as you said. If you insist, please welcome Špirić to his seat. If you insist, you can't, if you insist we vote on your proposal and we vote and we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u463	I ask that within the time limit within which the commission can receive a report by structure as requested. You can refuse it is not a problem. But you see what's the matter. We've given the commission a mandate to go out with another.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u464	Form a proposal to Špirić and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u465	To go out within a month with...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u466	The proposal is to get a new shift within a month with the structure we've already obliged the commission to do. 51 Who is in favour of such a proposal, please vote? - Eight for it. Who's against it? - Two against. Who's restrained? – 4 Spiric's proposal received passage. So we made a commitment to the commission to give a new report within a month. I now cannot continue to engage to what extent it will be possible to respect, but home made that conclusion. A report on the implementation of Aneks vi of the Opče Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH – Annex VII underlines You have received an opinion from the Constitutional Legal Commission. He adopted the House of Representatives with certain conclusions. Here's what we need to discuss, and we'll set ourselves up according to this. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u467	We're almost done not rushing, it's about important things. This report has been carrying a date since October 2000. The report was carried out by the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting, and this Council of Ministers announced new tones and changes in terms of the return of material conditions to improvement, etc. Now I'm interested in whether the adoption of this report in public distorts the image of the improvements made on the ground. As far as the media is concerned from this report, I'm telling you there will be disinformation. What I want to conclude is that we've been asking the World of the Ministers of Human Rights for a report ever since they've been in office what they've done. I guess that would make sense. This is the October 2000 report, and I think all the reports the Service provides are illogical to bury this assembly of the House of Peoples or the Representative Council. The second thing is, there's no one from the Council of Ministers that could ask him a question about a report that isn't real and would really put people in a difficult position. We're running a report on the current call. What did people do? So, let's market for people to make information because there's been a shift in the field. Somewhere better to return somewhere is worse, somewhere with human rights violations, somewhere more, somewhere less and we need such a report to sort out the situation on the ground, not to adopt the report and delay it in the drawer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u468	The chairman, envoys to the House of Peoples, is careful, the report refers exactly to the period and is written on what period and is referred to by the old council of ministers. The new Council of Ministers did not withdraw it and there is no possibility of delusion, it writes exactly what period it refers to and has a seal when it is brought, so it is simply information. Otherwise, I don't think this high house should be burdened with whether you're going to accept the statistics of certain, information, certain material. I agree with this approach, that now that we have finished this report, because we have this procedure, the obligation of procedure to receive that report, to define within the conclusions, the need of this council to listen to one piece of information about the situation in that area in the next period. But this kind of gymnastics isn't going to lead to any delusions. This report exactly writes what it refers to, writes the date, has a date when it's written, there are 52 so that we don't go after the unnecessary thing and, in my opinion, as far as information like this is concerned, we can make a statement about the conclusions. Which means accepting information or not accepting it. It is given to the House and the House is important to make its statement with all the conclusions and views on this information, which means what else it is looking for. In this context, I suggest that this information from the old council of ministers be taken to the knowledge of that period while at the same time taking this home, according to what Špirić said, I think we are on the same line asking the Council of Ministers to provide us with a paper on the current situation in the area. Indeed, let us not bother ourselves about questions that are not at present the subject of an excessive dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u469	Madam Presidents, fellow MPs, the essence of what I am about to say is actually Mr Tokić has already said, I did not want to give up for a while. In fact, it is still expected that a series of legislative projects that have passed the regular procedure of the previous Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers will come to this Parliament, and we really need to make a statement. However, I will refer a mild criticism to the former council, not to raise these questions as to whether or not the Alliance has made any changes to what Mr Špirić has spoken of on several occasions. I personally think it is, which will also prove very quickly, but about it by some other point. I think it is evidence that this has been slow to come to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers, is also a certain sign of the blockade of work that existed, unfortunately, in the past session, and I hope that something better will be in the new one. Also, I would like to join my colleague Tokić, who suggested that this be accepted, to make a statement and, of course, to look for a new report because in a new report, at least according to news articles from certain institutions that could be read in public, the return to both entities in BiH has been improved, and that is something that encourages it, because it is ultimately the most painful point of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u470	We're working hard and hard, and then maybe there's a spark. I think everyone who's willing to criticise Mr Špirić's performance, that they shouldn't take it on purpose. Mr Špirić has indeed shown that he is working responsibly at the Club and that he wants to make his contribution to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with the procedure and indeed I would suggest, already my speakers have said, that we accept this information as it is, since it is indeed from the old convocation and is carrying this date that Mr Tokić spoke of, but also, in conclusion, we ask that we also request that the new meeting, or the new minister delivers information that could serve us to assess whether there is a change for the better or worse compared to the previous situation, and that we do not exhaust ourselves much in further discussion. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u471	I agree with you, colleague Ilić. I suggest we consider that we have received this information. We have no reason to vote or accept or refuse it, and in accordance with what most of you have asked us to ask the current Council of Ministers to inform us as soon as possible of quality information in the implementation of Annex VII. Do you agree with that conclusion? Thank you very much. We are moving to the Proposal for a Resolution and Trust and Reconciliation in BiH, the proposal is being sent by Mr Ibrahim Spahić You have also received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Mr Spahić has the right under Article 115 to plead and welcome Mr Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u472	Gentlemen, we are tired of what is normal after all day's work, but last time I explained the proposal for a resolution on trust and reconciliation in BiH, and the debate at the House of Peoples was forwarded to the committee in charge. The committee responsible was a Constitutional and Legal Commission dealing with human rights and freedom issues. On that committee, as you received the report, there were no specific proposals, suggestions, other than the proposals and suggestions made by Mr Špirić, and then it was said to be normally put into the procedure of the proposal for a resolution on trust and reconciliation in BiH. Today we received a proposal for an amendment. Mr Dragutin Ilić informed that it was about amendments, written in writing at the Proposal for a Resolution on Trust in Immunity in BiH, which is quite correct. I would like to suggest, quite practically, one proposal to reassure you again of the need for such a resolution, there is no reason, since this high house has given full consent to build one such text. Since he has passed the competent body which is in session and the same as the House of the Peoples of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we have Dragutin Ilić's proposals and we have no other written proposals other than those we had in principle in the commission's debate. I'd like to ask you. If, I have 20 minutes per Psolovnik to speak, however, I am convinced that the will of all 15 MPs, or delegates, as already called in various systems, is probably delegates this time, that they agree on the need to make this resolution first. Secondly, if you have also looked at the text submitted by Mr Ilić, and if he does not specifically explain it but deliver us as the promoter of this amendment, I am expressing my willingness to install the text of these interventions in amendment and to give you next time the final text of the resolution, I think that would be extremely correct, if all present delegates accept it, if not, I would have to use 20 minutes to convince you of what I believe we are all convinced and what is the starting point and the basis of every delegate's work here. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u473	Thank you, Mr. Spahić. You have first Mr. Ilić, Mr. Spahić has made a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u474	I just want to ask Mr Spahić to understand this intervention in the most well-meaning way, so, I wanted from that very extensive text that he gave me to sum it up in something that I understand one declaration, a non-sensical resolution should bear, because from it should be produced, means the attitude of the House of Nations and the responsibilities and the House of Peoples and some other institutions and only so many of these amendments and I ask him when he enlists them to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u475	Thank you very much. That's what we've done. If no one answers, I invite you to make a statement on the motion for a resolution, with an amendment, with an obligation to deliver the text. Who's in? Unanimity. With this we have brought a resolution on trust and reconciliation in BiH, sorry we should have taken one break can't be done like this. I understand. I'm thinking a break because of me, because I made a mistake. We will bring the resolution to the next session as we have concluded. We're on 16. Points. Ad.16. The electoral law - a proposal from the Council of Ministers and the Electoral Law - a proposal from the envoy of Mr Špirić Misa we should only declare whether we are receiving this law in the procedure under Article 99. Rules of Procedure and let's try, here's a deadline. I call on you to vote, to put these two proposals under article 99 in the procedure. Tokić insists individually. Make it individual, let's put it into the process of the Council of Ministers' bill. Who's in? Unanimity. Tokić insists that it is according to the Rules of Procedure, I confess that it is so according to the Rules of Procedure. We've released it unanimityly. WHO is it that, under Article 99 of the procedure, we receive the bill, or the Law of Mr Spiric? Who's in? - Ten for it. Who's against it? - 1 Suspension? – 2 abstentions, i.e. 3 abstentions. So we have in the procedure of the bill and Mr Špirić and we will, therefore, deal with these laws in our next sessions. 55 Now we're at point 17. Ad.17. The change in the composition of the commissions Since Mr Tokić has proposed this point, I know all about it, but I ask him to bring us into the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u476	The chairman, the honourable envoys of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, we had consultations, or an agreement within the Bosniak Club. The proposal follows that the mandate of the Constitutional and Legal Commission should be adopted, member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Sejfudin Tokić, and Ibrahim Spahić, the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy, ceases his mandate with Ibrahim Spahić being elected to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and Sejfudin Tokić at the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy. It's a deal inside the Bosniak Club. Replacement of membership in these two commissions. The main reason is that in the context of redistribution of our activities and obligations we have made such an agreement and I ask you to accept these resignations, or appointments. The appointments are, in line with the obligations that members cannot be in more than two commissions, so that the membership of the commission must be distributed evenly.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u477	I suggest we go to the polls right now, if no one wants to ask or talk. I think the argument was very clear, concisely, to accept Mr. Tokić's resignation in the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Who's in? - 11 Who's against it? Abstained? - 2 abstentions One voice is missing or not missing. No, it's not. Okay. Who is it to accept Mr Spahić's resignation in the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy? Who's in? 11 Who is against? - Two suzdražni. I understand that Mr. Tokić's resignations were accepted on the commission and Mr. Spahić on the committee, and now we're going to vote. Who is it that Mr Ibrahim Spahić is elected to the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? - 11 for Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? - Two abstentions. Thank you very much. I find that Mr Ibrahim Spahić has been elected to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. 56 Who is it that Mr. Sejfudin Tokić is elected to the Committee for Foreign and Trogival Policy? Who's in? - 11 for who's against it? The abstentions? - Two abstentions. I find that Mr. Sejfudin Tokić has been elected to the Commission for Eastern and Trade Policy and we are now at the last 18 points. Ad.18. There is no answer to the envoy's questions – the delegation's questions and the Odogrov's initiatives. We've already urinated in the last session. Any questions and initiatives. Has Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u478	At Glamoč, a polygon for international military forces was built, and the facilities of the inhabitants from these areas were destroyed and the property was usurped. I'm asking these people to make material damage on one side and until it's done to stop these people's dejections. I expect the Council of Ministers to respond, what is on the agenda and what is planned.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-23-0.u479	Thank you very much. Not as far as I see questions and initiatives. This is the end of the 4th session. Thank you all very much. The seat's finished at 17.50 p.m.
