ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3877	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I would also like to inform you that at the meeting next to the MPs: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the EU, representatives of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, representatives of the EU's Mission to BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy and representatives of other international organisations operating and operating on the premises of our country. Representatives of public information funds were also invited. I warmly welcome and thank you for participating in today's 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Finally, I have the special honour and pleasure to welcome to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr Laslo Šurjan, special rapporteur, rapporteur of the Council of Europe for BiH. Welcome, Mr. Šurjan. Thank you for doing everything in BiH for the objective dimension of the political, security and human rights situation at the premises of the BiH state. You know very well that Mr. Šurjan has been in BiH for several days, where he has had intensive activities and talks all the time. He held talks with the chairman of both houses of this parliament, i.e. with two co-workers of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, with the presidents of almost all political parties in BiH and the Council of Ministers, with the presidents and vice-presidents of entities, with representatives of entity authorities, with the ombudsmans of the Federation of BiH and RS. Finally, today he met again with his collegiate home, as well as with the BiH presidency. I am not sure that I have mentioned all the contacts and activities of Mr Šurjan, but our distinguished guest in BiH is certain that he has had an exceptional dynamic activity and intensity of activities, which shows that the gentleman as a separate rapporteur of the Council of Europe wants to help BiH on its not very easy and simple path towards European integration, towards the first step of European integration, which is the reception, consideration and reception of BiH as a regular member of the Council of Europe. I am using this position to welcome Mr. Šurjan on behalf of all of us once again and to thank him for his extraordinary efforts to make BiH a member of the European Community. In this context, we were free to ask Mr Šurjan to address the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Mr. Šurjan, once again, welcome, please welcome 2 you have the opportunity and time to address the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3878	Mr. President, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. A few years ago, President Buš, who is the father of current President Buš, visited Hungary. So the conditions for this visit weren't good, we had rain and he had to talk outside in front of all of us. He had a long speech, a long speech written, and in that frustration of his time and conditions he tore this speech apart, and he said, "Let's forget it, I'll just say what I think." I'd like to follow his procedure, broadcast him in some way, but I'm not able to do that, because I don't have the chance to tear him apart. I was informed by the president only when I arrived at the airport, he told me that I would have the opportunity to speak before the Parliamentary Assembly, so I was not fully prepared. But from my arrival until now, I've always been in some negotiations with someone. By doing this now for you and I'll give you some, I'll sum up my impressions. But first of all, I'd like to show you how great an honor it is before I was invited to speak in front of you, in front of this House. First of all, I want to say that you are in a very specific position, a unique position for people who have been elected or re-elected in the last elections in BiH. Representatives in parliament houses always have the impression that they are the ones who make history. But that's rare. You BiH representatives, at this point you can do nothing else but influence the country's history by your actions. You are now in a position to build an independent state. One country that will be a union of different religions, different ethnicities. After the terrible experience of the war that BiH had, you are now in a position to build a society that will serve for example. All over Europe. I trust you. Now the whole of Europe has confidence in you and is waiting to show it that you can do this and perhaps some other European countries are a little envious of your ability to do what you are about to do now. The International Community is willing to help you, but is unable to do this without you, without your help. What does this willingness mean to help you? We can share our experience with you. We can give you advice or better say we can suggest some things. We can give you our historical experience. If we look behind us a little bit, what happened in the last century, means in the 20th century, I see a long list of lessons we can learn. In the course of this long-term community rights, collective rights were very important and in the name of collective law, individual law was sometimes neglected. You can call it Nazism, fascism, communism, but it's always the same now. After World War II, Europe took a different path. We started talking about individual rights, basic human rights, it's of great importance, without the implementation of human rights and freedoms, no country is in good shape, but all our decisions must be in harmony with human nature and human nature affords and drive to live in a collective, to live in a community. When you make your decisions, you must respect basic human rights, but you must also respect the right of family, so on, the rights of local communities or cantons, and then finally, you must respect the rights of nations. You can blame individual 3 politicians for making mistakes that they are extremists and that they are on the periphery of the political circle, but you and I and all of us must be fenced from blaming the entire nation and we must always bear in mind that we must accept the decisions of our voting bodies, because if politicians can make mistakes, we cannot say that people are wrong. You, let me say, human impulses, drive our nature to be members of the community, to see you as members of a particular people, these rights and those impulses are protected in the WE. By inviting you, by inviting you to the V.E., we offer you both protection and we offer you the experience of all our charters and all of our European standards under which you would be automatically. We'll never ask you to do anything that's in vain. To do something for us. At least I'm trying to formulate myself by showing you what we're asking you to do is good for yourself and I think in the past few years and especially in the past few months of the last election, I think your country has done a lot. So, now that that is in mind, I believe it is my duty to open the gates before you in front of the Council of Europe. What I can't do for you is push you through that gate or walk in the other side and drag you through that gate. You have to take that step yourself and now what I'm asking you to do is help. Help me make a positive report for your country's entry. Representatives at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are sometimes confused as we discuss your country, because they are influenced by different media, because they read the newspaper and watch television. It's a very difficult image of a bus burning in Banja Luka. And there's a very small number of those who know what was done after these incidents, which was positively done after these incidents to control these things, because the image of disorder floods the positive things your government has demonstrated because of these riots. There are a lot of reasons why the Council of Europe is asking you to pass your own electoral law and I don't want to go through every argument right now. The only thing I'm going to tell you is, please help me, because this will help me to present to my colleagues at the V.E. that BiH is ready to enter the V.E. and I am now truly convinced that you are able to become a member. I also think that this is a very positive sign, meaning the adoption of an election law and I think it's something that will serve you in the future, because I expect this step to be followed by other steps. As for bringing registrations related to the BiH Constitution and other equally great things. I think those politicians who are in those parties that are establishing the BiH government and their opposition must reach consensus on at least some things. This consensus can only be achieved through dialogue, through mutual understanding and through willingness to compromise. The compromise is the secret of how the politics of all European countries succeeds. Through compromise, you will only strengthen and strengthen your country. Maybe some of you think they're confessing to the wording or that they're weak the moment they agree to compromise, but that's not true. Believe me when I say it's a good thing to be a member of the Ve, but that doesn't mean it's going to be heaven. Pensions won't grow by becoming a member of WE. The salaries will remain the same, but the Council of Europe, so receiving BiH into the Council of Europe is the first step towards some other things, perhaps more important things, so this takes a step to make you a member of any European integration, without the Council of Europe, you can't be it. If I may now share something with you as someone who comes from Hungary, not someone who represents the Council of Europe, although I am fortunate to have two views in quite harmony with each other. Given the history of the 20th century, we have nations that do not live strictly in one country. So we don't have nations within defined four borders, but they extend beyond borders. What I'm saying is that Mađar live not only in Hungary, but also in many other countries. Hrvat do not live alone in Croatia, but live for example here in BiH. Srbin not only live in Yugoslavia, but also live here again in BiH, but also in other countries, of course. Under current political circumstances, dear colleagues, it is not possible to imagine a country that would have managed to put all Mađar under one roof, all Hrvat under one roof, etc. But EU frameworks set after World War II are a very good system for overcoming such problems. Through EU membership, we can feel the country's integrity without changing its borders. Many of the problems of different countries have just been solved through this way, meaning through European Union channels, to mention only one example of Germany and France borrowing World War II. How the EU is a place of permanent reconciliation. Since you are in a country where there are still so many tensions, political tensions, so many mistrusts, you need to clearly define your path towards a solution. The Council of Europe will help resolve this problem. The European Union that will come later may even finalise the solutions to this problem, but you yourself must have a very clear goal and a very clearly defined way of achieving these European integrations. Some of you may be skeptical and say whether the path is very long and our goals are far from us, but please, come back for a moment ten years ago and then look at the situation you're in right now. I don't think you guys were who you were ten years ago were able to imagine the situation you're in right now. Even if you look at a shorter period of nearness or the very end of war, it's still a shocking change that has occurred since then, when not only do you have peace, you have a college like this. But if you have a clear picture of the future and a very clear goal, a common goal, then your process to achieve that goal will be much faster than without it. Mr. President, dear colleagues, our gate is open. I will do everything I can to invite you to be a member of the WE next month, but it has a condition that you will vote for the adoption of the electoral law and that is exactly how you buy a ticket to the WE. If you pass this electoral law, then the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will vote for BiH in its plenary session in September. Thank you very much, goodbye and see you soon to the family of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3879	I thank Mr Šurjan, the special rapporteur for the state of BiH, for these words of encouragement and belief that it makes sense to believe that BiH can become a regular member of the Council of Europe in 2001 and, in this context, there is no alternative route for this country, except that European integration, the Rod maps and the first steps into the WE. Which means it assumes the activity of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to realise and activate in terms of the adoption of the electoral law. I provide the possibility, the College predicted it, if any of the members of the Bureau wanted to address it, however, I was informed that members of the pedsjedništvo had an emergency meeting with the three foreign ministers of the European Community and in this context, surely sufficient reason to be accurate in this context, so the College proposes a half-hour break until the start of the meeting. Thank you. 5 At the meeting, there are 36 MPs present. [[PAUZA]] The absence was announced by colleagues Lolić and Brka for the reasons of the disease and in this context, here we can say that we have a quorum and that we can work as a representative home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. With the invitation to this session, you have also received a draft agenda. Among the proposed points as seen, there are also very priority issues of which two are to be mentioned. It is a choice of permanent delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in an international organisation and a request for consideration and adoption under the urgent procedure of the law, which was provisionally declared by the High Representative for BiH. Also, in the parliamentary procedure of the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Council of Ministers also submitted a proposal for an election law, requiring the House to consider and adopt it by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. As you know, the extended college of the House was held at its session on May 4th. when we agreed on calling this 8th session and setting out a draft agenda, we took a principled stance and a principled position to include the BiH Election Law in the agenda if it is delivered by the Council of Ministers. This happened, and in this context, the draft electoral law came to the MPs and was delivered at the plenary session on 10 May of the current year. The College of this House has taken the position to propose to Dom that the application for the adoption of this law be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure, as point 3. In addition, the College proposes that points 7 and 8 of the agenda, which should have been elaborated by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, be removed from the agenda today at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that is to say to consider the DKP network and secondly, the Information on preparations for the international conference in Qatar, Doha. This has already been completed yesterday and in this context we can expect written information on the results of this donor conference at the next session. Here, these are some special notes and edgy during this session, so, pauses, we have received a request from MP Mariofil Ljubić, who also signed an MP and deputy chairman, Mr. Mriofil Ljubić, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, it says in a request, we are submitting a proposal for an election law, with a request for an urgent procedure. Since BiH's entry into the Ve, it would be important to pass this law as soon as possible, we ask that this law be put into practice at today's session. We had it on an extended college. Respectived the request of MP Mriofil Ljubić, agreed to refer him to parliamentary procedure, per member, normally, 104, and sent him to the Constitutional and Legal Commission to give his opinion on the constitutionality and legality of this act, which would come to the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Obviously, it is not satisfactory for Mr Ljubić, the promoter and it should also be discussed. These are some notes. Agenda, I'll read it one more time. It was also proposed for implementation today, which is: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Selection of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; in (a) the Organisation on European Security and Co-operation, (b) the Central-European Initiative, 6 c) the Interparliamentary Union, (d) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Ve, the Request to consider the urgent procedure of the law adopted on a provisional basis by the High Representative, as follows. We know well, these 15 laws we've been discussing for a long time and we have them on the agenda; 3. Proposal for a law on associations and foundations of BiH, that's a second reading; 4. Proposal for an external trade chamber in BiH, that's first reading; 5. A free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia with the Protocol on the definition of the concept of origin production and method of administrative co-operation with contributions; 6. Report on the state of the DKP network, that's what we suggest to take down; 7. Report on preparation for the donor conference of countries of the Islamic countries for the return of refugees to BiH; 8. MPs' questions and answers. We have reached agreement on these certain notes, with the fact that we have not reached agreement on these 15 laws that OHR has declared on a provisional basis. Most clubs insist on considering it today. One part of the clubs believes that it is necessary and necessary to consider them in another mode, an organisation together with the House of Nations, where the Election Law would be discussed, and in this context, here I am opening a discussion on the proposed agenda and these notes, complements, or skimming points from the agenda, which we agreed on to the College, an extended College of the Parliamentary House of Representatives. The president of the SDS Club, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3880	Dear gentlemen, esteemed guests, honourable MPs, I have a proposal to supplement the agenda, with two points. If I've heard correctly, it's a little hard to manage, since we didn't get this latest agenda adopted on the extended college, so it's a little harder to follow up on everything that's going on. First, I propose that the agenda be complemented by a point called determining the responsibility of officials in BiH institutions for the political and security situation in BiH. I think it's an explanation. I think that since last session we should have become the past to react to the post-festum and post-festum we are bringing some resolutions, declarations or so, let's go gentlemen to meet events to prevent anything that could negatively affect the political and security situation. In one book, the secret door of success, I read a good thought, they say that a man is asked about, what he has become and how successful he has become, and not a successful one asks what he is failure to do. I think that we're like a country in that other context, where we should really ask ourselves, and that many of us ask us what we're failed to do and in order to solve possible problems, and there are a lot of them, I'm just going to say a few. It is not unknown to you that members of the Bureau often act, forgive the expression, but as horns in the bag, each on our side, so we had a situation to say that one session was and that some conclusions were made, the other denied that it was not so and it was not the first time. Can you get the impression I ask you and the public, that people don't cooperate or cooperate badly, or that we can get the impression that we don't have the kind of important organ that should work in BiH? Whether it's individuals or all of them, it's a matter of discussion. 7 Second, as far as you and I both know, there are ministers in the Council of Ministers who allow themselves the luxury, to insult the dignity of certain peoples and that we must discuss their responsibility, if we want to have healthy inter-human, international, international, inter-citizen relations. I think this point should be a constant point between the sessions, in the sense of reminding ourselves if there's anything we need to react to. Is there anything we need to prevent and say we feel in the air that might happen as an excess. Third, I think that a parliamentary commission should be formed, which will monitor and regularly report to this parliament on the political and security situation in BiH, and that, at the same time, this should not be disputed to ask the competent authorities for reports of both BiH and the entity, but if everyone writes their own report, then thank Bog it is known what it will be. When someone wrote something ugly about themselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3881	Ambassador Banjac, intervention on the agenda, three minutes, shorter explanations. This is already a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3882	I think this is an important question, Mr. President, and I don't see the need for anxiety when it comes to this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3883	I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3884	I propose a second item of the agenda, it's a decision-making process, I haven't noticed, I apologize if it's already been put in place, making a decision on putting in the assembly procedure under the urgent procedure of the draft electoral law. So we have a lot of first and obligation, at the request of the promoter to put it into an emergency procedure, it's in accordance with Article 104 or 105. So here we see that both of the proposings they've given so far, and I'm entitled to here for three minutes to explain, this is the second point, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3885	That's what the MP predicted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3886	I don't know what you did, I know you didn't do it. What you predicted, I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3887	We have provided for the addition of the agenda under points 3. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3888	I'm asking you, I'm right, it's not read and I have the right to say it. I'm asking you at the College, and that's what I want everyone to know. I asked for the latest proposal, the last version made by the International Expert Group today to be considered in accordance with Article 105, to meet today's condition for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. I didn't get any support from the College, it was brought in like Mr. Chairman said. Let it be known, gentlemen. Let it be known whether or not we have, or who has, who has no trust in international organisations and that we already begin to show ourselves and what we are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3889	Thank you. Mr. Adem Borić is an MP outside the SDA Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3890	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the SDA MPs' club accepts the established agenda. The MPs' club believes BiH will be closer to the Council of Europe if this parliament adopts not only these laws declared by the High Representative in BiH, but also other laws that we find in the BiH Constitution. Any approach to postponement, not adopting BiH law, cements the state of war and the violent division of territories and citizens in BiH, which is their country and state. The SDA MPs' club was also in a previous session for the adoption of these laws and this club, against the background of the earlier club, also takes the view that this should be adopted as soon as possible. As for Mr Banjac's proposal to expand the agenda, the SDA also believes it would be as a previous issue, but not at this session, but at the next session to be treated as the previous issue of the political and security situation in BiH, with a special reference to respect for human rights and their full capacity. We appreciate that this item of the agenda would be needed, to be treated in this home, until there is a full right in BiH for every citizen to political, economic and religious freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3891	I thank Ambassador Borić. Ambassador Bilbi.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3892	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, present guests, we have a problem with the adoption of the Election Law, which is a key condition for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe at the end of June o. g., and we have all been convinced from the previous meeting with Mr. Šurjan. The club points out that we must reach a political agreement in the House of Representatives, adopt this law, which is what all the peoples and citizens of BiH expect from us. This club is ready to participate in it as much as possible. BiH's admission to the Council of Europe is the first step towards BiH's entry into the European integration process. We support this process and consider it a condition for BiH's democratic and economic development. The Club therefore believes that the election law should be adopted within the time limit set and that this should be the version prepared by the OSCE. Political dialogue and agreement are needed, and we believe that this is realistic 9 and that this version of the electoral law is possible and that this version of the Election Law, prepared by the OSCE, should be introduced into the procedure under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, together with the laws proposed by the Council of Ministers, which were previously proposed by the OHR. Thus, one session of the House of Representatives would effectively and rationally ensure that a key condition for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe is met. The club believes that both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly should do so, of course, if the House of Peoples accepts it. At the previous session of the House of Representatives as a club, we asked the Council of Ministers as a legislator, who temporarily declared OHR formulates the proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 82. Rules of Procedure. At this request, as well as other requirements, concerning the procedure, we have not received a reply from the Council of Ministers so far. As a result, there are no conditions for today's debate on that proposal by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3893	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. Deputy Chairman Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3894	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, I have today put on behalf of a group of MPs in the procedure of the draft electoral law. I can say that I got the support of five MPs who signed this proposal, and when you look at it a little bit, I think the big majority will look at it. In order to promote free and fair democratic elections and to lay the groundwork for the representative-representative authority and ensure progressive achievement of democratic objectives throughout BiH, in line with relevant documents of the organisation on European security and co-operation in order to promote the general well-being and economic development of BiH, through the protection of private ownership and promotion of the market economy, determined for the extreme, territorial integrity and political independence of BiH, in accordance with international law, determined to affirm the principles and principles of the Dayton Agreement, with consistent implementation of the principles of institutional equality and equality of constituent peoples in BiH Bosniaks, Hrvat and Srbin, in order to ensure that, in accordance with both the Constitution and the electoral laws, in the Electoral Law, a decision of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of all nations on the basis of human rights and humanrights , this law is certainly high in order to takeplace. I can say that this electoral law, which I have proposed, along with the assembly of MPs, is completely comprehensive. It leaves no gap in any chapter, it also defines the election of members of the presidency and the election of one nation's home, the choice of another people's home, the election and the president of the Federation of BiH, and I think it should certainly be taken seriously into consideration. The fact is that temporary rules and regulations were adopted in the 10th month of last year, generated a crisis on the BiH area and for this reason we are offering a comprehensive document of the Electoral Law, for which I seek, normally, equal treatment as for all other laws. I agree that we should be hasty to adopt the Electoral Law, because it is a premise for the entry into the EE and I certainly support it and strongly advocate that BiH finally become a member, a full member of the Council of Europe. There's 10 more than a way. One way I see it is, some say, let's pass an election law where we don't define these few important questions. If that is the way, then we psychologically pass one electoral law, which in this first part will not have been resolved as members of the BiH Presidency, the Federation-level House of Peoples and at BiH level, perhaps that's the way, but I say we offer a comprehensive text and material, and I think we need to seriously consider it, because the fact is that Dayton BiH, affirms the principle of three equal constituent peoples of BiH, that it mentions and citizens, means that it has institutions that protect national collective rights, has institutions that protect both individual and civil rights and should be respected. It is important to respect the fact that BiH is composed of three peoples, that it is a country of three constitutive equal peoples and all citizens living in it and I ask that you have that in mind. We must simply also have ways and mechanisms for constitutional peoples to have the possibility of using vital interest through national institutions. What I am asking for for one people, I believe that they should have all three peoples, only in this way, means through true, consistent equality we can achieve true stability and prosperity in BiH. That's why I'm saying, I suggest this law goes into emergency procedure. The mention of Article 105 is that today or the second day without debate, we adopt the Electoral Law, what we couldn't do for this long, I don't think it's very serious. Then other questions and other constitutional solutions are asked, and I have the answer, because today, today I am going to offer, I have already offered a number of constitutional amendments to the BiH Constitution. In the coming days, expect a wider intervention on the BiH Constitution, which will consistently implement the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of all peoples in the entire territory of BiH and will surely, consistently, be required through entities and entity constitutions to implement the decision. I'm not into lying to make-up the Constitution, let's just say, here's what we've installed. We have so far had the principle in the Dayton Constitution in Annex IV that all nations, representatives of nations, were constitutional in the whole area, and these were not really true. That is why I am saying, I advocate a consistent institutional, equality, equality of constituent peoples throughout the BiH area, no matter what it means, no matter how much intervention it requires in the Constitution in one and the other and third, because I say it is our interest that as a potential MEO member, we achieve this equality at the door that we have instruments to protect human rights at the highest level, because these instruments are certainly also in the strength of the constitutional principles of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3895	My colleague Ljubić, intervention on the agenda. You'll have a chance to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3896	Nothing, I agree that you accept that this goes as normally as any other law, because it's simply a procedure. I think that requires the moment we're in. We must all be aware of the seriousness of the moment, so I am open as one of the proposings for all talks on achieving a satisfactory solution for all in order for BiH to be admitted to Europe's membership and to achieve this internal stability and balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3897	I would like to thank Deputy Chairman Ljubić, MP Ljubić. Word has an MP named Cuplov Mustafa. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3898	Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I will begin my brief address with one finding, following Parliament's work in the previous session, I must conclude a special ineffectiveness which is confirmed and in the materials that we receive from the current sessions. A series of very important acts for this country have been in parliamentary procedure for years. The attempt to break 15 essential laws that will represent the power of this state's legal system is at least unserious. From the point of view of the materials delivered, following the first regulation which, delivered to us by the MPs, together with the proposals of the law, is quite clear, at least to me, I am not a lawyer, from what is here in the text that, that the proposed laws without amendment and addition in the same text should be adopted in this document. Everything we don't like, what we want to change, there's also a procedure to do it. An attempt to put on the agenda of the Electoral Law, under article 105, has made it impossible for me as an MP to carry out any quality observation or amendment of that text. He made it impossible for me to discuss, as far as I know, it's an accelerated and fast procedure that rules it out. In the agenda, which I received before the session of this Parliament, there is no Electoral Law at all. The current agenda, there's no Electoral Law at all. In the previous notice we had that in the 17.5th session, along with the material, so from the Election Law a notice was delivered that it would be included on the agenda. I'm sorry, the agenda is being set up, and I don't mean, at least I don't understand it, that something that we've been notified in a few days, with the delivery of the material is certainly part of that agenda. That one sentence also had to appear in our notice in order to be quality in this regard. Also, I have to express one concern with the unconstitutional situation in the country, and this parliament is like the largest body and it should protect the legality and the constitution of the state outside which we are sitting here. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly should protect this constitutionality, and I am interested in the dikele came with the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. Whether amendments, possible amendments to the entity's constitutions have been delivered. You know, you were set until 16.4.2001, and if you are, it seems logical that they should be delivered to this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3899	Comrade Cuplov, I'm intervening. It means an intervention on the agenda. You have parliamentary questions under point 8.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3900	I ask you, in that very sense, also, the proposal of the electoral law, which was presented by the esteemed Mr. Ljubić, is something we have received at this moment and I want us to be left with enough space in the preliminary procedure that we can make known about it. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3901	Thank you, Ambassador Cuplov. Anyone else answer for a word on the agenda? We don't have any more logs. We can conclude that we do not have the agreement on the agenda proposed. We have an intervention approved by the Exterior College to establish, as point 3, the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that is to say, the introduction into the Assembly procedure of the Electoral Law with the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which was given under the Proposal for a Law that came to us by the Council of Minors, and that is not disputed and those other points are not disputed, as we agreed on at the Enlarged College. The existing item 3 in the proposed agenda is controversial, 15 laws declared on a provisional basis by OHR. For that, I do not think there is any other alternative, but that what is not agreed on at the extended college we will plead at the House and take our stand on the additions and changes to the agenda. If I'm right, I'd ask you for an act of plea. So who's to put into today's agenda, included and proposed 15 laws that were temporarily declared by the OHR. Who's in? I would ask MP Bora Bjelobrk to take their position. Thank you. Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? I think it's necessary and an entity statement. Who is therefore from the Federation of BiH to put these 15 laws on the agenda? Thank you. Who's from the RS space to put these 15 laws on the agenda? Thank you. I don't have to consult these previous results. We don't have an entity majority for these 15 laws, which is at least five MPs. They voted 3 for, which means these 15 laws cannot be put on the agenda of today's session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Which means, I'm asking you, too, we can do it again. In the first round of voting, I ask you, colleague Šarganović, there are 36 – for 25 votes and 10 abstentions. By entities. The Federation voted 23 – RS voted 3. It takes five, a third of each entity space, and in this context, we did not adopt these 15 laws after the entity vote for consideration at today's session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate over these next proposals, which are being made. Can we agree that the proposal by Mr Banjac, MP Banjac, means establishing the responsibility of the BiH Joint Institutions' officials for the political and security situation for today, for the last time, we had a resolution that binding, meaning research and documenting what has been happening in the past months in the entire BiH area, resulting in the possible responsibility of the officials of the joint BiH institutions and in this context, I suggest that we open this debate for the next session as a preliminary issue, and that we look for reports on everything relevant for the assessment of the political and security situation in BiH in recent months, in order to potentially raise the question of the responsibilities of the individual officials of the joint institutions of BiH, all other things would be improvisation and 13 simply the inability of this home to state in general of this important and important issue. Can we do that, Mr. Banjac? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3902	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, honored guests and MPs, I will act first as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I don't think voting on the previous point is a respected Rules of Procedure. If the Proposer, if the Proposer, asks for the agenda of individual laws by emergency procedure, then votes on the request, not the law. Please read that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3903	It's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3904	But it's very important, because it changes essentially what happens after. Please, it's very important. I'm warning you, and I'm asking the Constitutional and Legal Commission to give an opinion on this right now. If this Parliament, I propose that Parliament give the possibility to the Constitutional and Legal Commission to get out of this state. This is a state of... Secondly, when it comes to my proposal, I have proposed an addition to the agenda, and everyone else has the right to vote on every addition. Whether it's this or the next session, I suggested on this one. I suggested this one. Maybe some other formulation will be used for another. It's not the same thing. It means there's a vote on what I suggested. I suggested two additions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3905	I believe the Electoral Law, which I have proposed, has entered the procedure. Therefore, because I think it would be inconclusive that we simply offer electoral laws at each session. Since I haven't even won the election law, I'm with the group, so the expert did the text of the Electoral Law and it's unacceptable for me to simply treat it there as some kind of paper when it comes to the agenda. If the Constitutional Commission needs to see the constitutional foundation, I think there are only two sentences, to see what we've called on. I certainly think it would be too important for BiH and for BiH's internal stability, simply that this electoral law goes as well as all other electoral laws. If anyone thinks they're worth otherwise, then we'll have 218 amendments to this election bill, because this election law of mine has exactly 218 articles. Don't close your eyes now. Let's talk openly, let's say what it is, what the solutions are, I keep saying that even here in the proposal that I signed there are solutions that aren't good for, which I'm ready to talk about, and simply, I'm not quite ready to shut up about leaving here without respecting what's gone too far. So, I think, if a decision is made on the procedure of the Electoral Law, that this text should be considered normally when treated by both committees and by all other bodies. That's it. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3906	I thank Ambassador Ljubić. I'm just that inaccuracy can lead to wrong flows. To be precise until the end, the request for an emergency procedure is Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Election Law, which came to us from the Council of Ministers. We have the Constitutional and Legal Commission's position, it's not disputed. Okay. Furthermore, under Article 83, we also referred the College to the parliamentary procedure of the law that came to us this morning, the law proposed by a group of members of the HDZ parliament and it goes to the constitutional order, to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and that is the procedure and in this context, everything is clear and my colleague Ljubić accepted it. Rules of Procedure, here you go, Comrade Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3907	Ambassador Ljubić said exactly what he wanted. He wants, therefore, that his law, too, be put forward by a group of MPs in an emergency procedure. In order for this to happen today, he has to pass the Constitutional and Legal Commission and now you can decide two things. To be given an emergency procedure today for only one law, it is a proposal from the Council of Ministers, which has passed the legal procedure and that at the next session the same procedure is given to others, or to take a break to meet the Constitutional and Legal Committee and consider this proposal and he gets the same status and goes together. You have two options. I just wanted it to be known that we have two options.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3908	It's not a dispute, it's an established procedure. We will certainly have to take a break, because this business obligation requires us, after the insufficient outcome of the entity's vote on the agenda and try to agree on what is not disputed and which was not disputed at the Expansive College. So, during the break, if the Constitutional and Legal Commission can meet and give its assessment there is no dilemma to put on the agenda, also a statement under the urgent procedure of both proposals of the law, and this is not disputed, so if there are no other interventions, I ask you to vote on Mr Banjac's proposal, MEP Banjac, two proposals, or one proposal, we have agreed on this one, and that is to determine the responsibility of the officials of the joint institutions for the political and security situation. If there's no further discussion about this. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in favour, to put this item on the agenda. You have heard, and I repeat again, the determination of the responsibility of the BiH joint institutions' officials for the political and security situation in BiH. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? An entity vote is also necessary. Who's to get from the field of the RS entity to put this point on the agenda, who's for? Thank you. Who's in favour of putting the Federation of BiH entity on the agenda, who's in favour? Thank you. 15 A total of 36 MPs are present. Galsalo for 23 in the first round. The opposition was 4 — abstention 7. According to entities, the Federation voted for 8 – from the RS voted 11 and in this context the Federation needed 10 MPs and no proposal was adopted. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3909	Please, I suggest. How long was it in the first round to publicly say behind the pay phone? Just one more time. I doubt the regularity of the vote but it doesn't matter, it has the right to be one for, and one against. It's done. I'm not going to ask for an individual statement, just so you know it was.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3910	It's the first time that's happened in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3911	It's quite clear that it was, and I just want it to be known.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3912	Please, the outcome of the vote and the sum of votes. 23 was for – here you see, it's already fixed from 4 to 5 – against it was 5 and retained 7. 7 and 5 12. Please, if someone allows themselves the freedom to actually bring interference twice and simply, deliberately disemboweling this bill, then it's shameful behavior. I have to say it, and in that context, we will take all measures. Thank you. I'm proposing a half-hour break. The extended college was ensuing on the emerging situation when we did not accept the review and adoption of 15 laws declared by OHR on a provisional basis. [[PAUZA]] The extended college proposes the next agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of Representatives and what is not disputed 2. Selection of members of Parliamentary Assembly delegations 3. Request to consider the urgent procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure and two proposals, as far as I am aware: (a) Proposal for an election law of BiH - Proposer of the Council of Ministers b) Proposal for an election law of BiH - Proposer Mr Mariofil Ljubić, MP of House of Representatives 4. Proposal for a law on associations and foundations of BiH, second reading; 5. Proposal for an external trade chamber in BiH, first reading 6. A free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia with the Protocol on the definition of the concept of origin production and methods of administrative co-operation with contributions, with a view to giving consent to ratification and 7. MPs' questions and answers. If necessary, the Constitutional and Legal Commission may submit its report. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3913	Honored gentlemen of the chairman, esteemed MPs, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has taken the next position. As far as the election law of MPs Mariofil Ljubić is concerned, the Constitutional and Legal Commission considers that the law has constitutional basis and supports the position of the promoters to take the law into the assembly procedure and comply with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. When it comes to voting on a package of laws, which, on a provisional basis, the High Representative, the Constitutional and Legal Commission considers it wrong in the procedure for the following reasons. In accordance with Article 105. As requested, Section 1. 2nd and 3rd predicts the following. It was not necessary to vote on those laws, but first to state the reasons for the application of Article 105, so this was to be voted first. We think it was wrong, and there is a unanimous view of one and a half and one and another, the unanimous position of those present in the Constitutional and First Commission, and six of the nine members of the Commission were present. So we think there's been a mistake. We propose to extend the agenda with the next point, to draw conclusions on the Council of Ministers' proposal to make laws, and then, on a provisional basis, brought by the High Representative and then to list the laws put on the agenda, in accordance with Article 105. The position of 1.2 and 3, respectively, is sufficient to say in accordance with Article 105. So you vote on a request to lay down those laws, according to that member, not whether those laws will be passed or not. Another thing, our Rules of Procedure. What I've been saying so far has been a unanimous constitutional-law committee position, but I want to now as an MP just to add one sentence. Our Rules of Procedure do not know the rapsis on the package or the placing of packages on the agenda, and even if a decision is made, it will have to be individually declared, as one law says. I mean, it's the thing you're running the session now, I wouldn't go into it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3914	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. I would only point out the following if possible, does it really not seem to us that every degree of urgency has been spent, because at the third session we are already discussing the package of laws proposed by OHR and what degree of urgency we are talking about. What degree of urgency are we talking about, which means, absolutely, the third session we're talking about, we're simply trying to gymnastics politically and affect this Parliament's paralysis in terms of delaying the debate on these laws. Every level of urgency is lost. They appear to be a missed investment of what is required to vote again on the high level of urgency of these laws. This is the third session as we take these laws off the agenda, i.e. we postponed the consideration as the right term and term. I think it is totally illusory that the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, without respect, what has been done and what has been done in the past three meetings of the House of Representatives, concludes once again that a high degree of urgency should be voted on. I beg you, formalism is not the politics of this House. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3915	Dear Mr. Chairman, on several occasions you have taken the right to call, speak unauthorizedly, and abuse your position. Facts that justify this attitude of mine. On many occasions, you have interrupted me personally during the speech, thus showing a view towards me as a human and if you have not done the same to other MPs, especially those who belong to your party and to the political option. You thus express impatience at the very least toward different attitudes and opinions. Now you've extended that attitude to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission to collectively resign, because in the most humane way we have discussed your ignorance, Mr. Chairman, here is what I have said, because you have misused the position and you have failed to comply with the Rules of Procedure. So there's been a mix-up here. Whoever cheats on someone here is best to examine the stenograms. I ask you, this may be your last time to demean a working body. If that happens again, I'll take my right to ask for a vote on your shift.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3916	Thanks for the intervention. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go. poslanik Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3917	Mr. Chairman, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as an MP, I believe that, as far as the Constitutional Commission proposal is concerned, we can get a whole new situation, and that means that when the MPs come forward, we can enter some vicious circle, and that would mean returning to the very beginning, and I, as an MP, think that such a statement could lead us to another foreigner. I'm also saying this because of the previous vote, which we had on the laws by, means, which are on a temporary basis, and I think we should, that we shouldn't draw the wrong conclusion in the vote itself. Clearly, Mr. Željko Bilbija, as head of the club, said the reasons, and I think it should be clarified in the shortest possible time that we are in favour of these laws, in the sense that they should be declared, that we need them and we need BiH legal system. At the same time, we also felt that the Electoral Law should, in the same way as Article 105., mean, by an urgent procedure without amendments, so that as a package to be presented and the MPs to make themselves known, because that is essentially a condition for entering the Council of Europe and in spite of the functioning of the common bodies as a first condition and second condition is in fact the Election Law of BiH, and if we are truly honest with each other, and I think that we should be there, I believe that through political will, through clubs and through colleges in an extended composition, all of this should be discussed and respected once again in the package. It is the key to all misunderstandings in me and in the Palrament and out of this House. So I'm asking you to take it into consideration and keep it in mind so we can safely get out of some situation where we've found ourselves in some way.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3918	I'm sorry, Boro. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija. Who's next to the word? 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3919	President-in-Office, fellow Members of Parliament, I have an understanding of the reaction of the chairman of our home, as I am, of course, sharing and the reasons for what the President of the Constitutional Commission has said, and it has led me to come out here, and that is why I first need to say as an MP that I felt rather uncomfortable today, and that is why I have an understanding for the president to react, because this is the third session that we are talking about this package of laws. We claim that we are for them and that we need them, but it turns out that every time there are formal reasons or interferences that, or I don't know any other reasons why we can't make a statement about them. I was in favour of this conclusion of the Constitutional Commission, because at today's session and therefore I felt very uncomfortable and uncomfortable as an MP, did not go through the request to make a statement about the laws adopted by the High Representative on a temporary basis, afraid that we would lose time again, because the possibility of resorting to a formal argument remains, and the formal arrangement is always in such situations impolite. We have agreed on the Constitutional Commission, we have indeed taken a position to remove all formal concerns, empty spaces, so to speak, and to comply with the procedure and, therefore, it has been suggested that at today's session we remove the last formal interference to declare the laws. Hence, the request of the chairman of the Commission, at first the position of our commission and the conclusion that we should declare that the House, to declare this package of laws on the provisional basis of the procedure under Article 105. As an MP, therefore, I was to remove the last of any formal argument or space for further delaying the declaration of these laws. I have a say in this regard, of course, to say that, from a party that has already been in the previous assembly of this Parliament, we have supported the adoption of each of these laws, that, with the first of their being put into the procedure in this form, in which we have received it, we have also supported it in this regard and I cannot without expressing my dissent with the reasons of political nature, which tend to or with the politilization of our position on these laws, in the sense that one of the high SDP officials, after the previous session, in which we have declared ourselves on these laws, in a characteristic way, attacked the parties who voted to postpone the statements about these laws. Of course, one of the parties who voted for the postponement of the laws was his party. I cite this as an uncomfortable example of politicizing our statement on these laws and on this side, I pray and the chairman, I repeat now, respect the position of the Constitutional Commission, who wanted this one to remove or at least hold that everyone on this side has agreed on both the last misunderstandings or the space for formal dissuasion of our plea, and I call on Parliament to declare that this point is to be placed in this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3920	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3921	I think I learned very well that the procedure is one of the key pillars of modern democracy. Unfortunately, in my life, I have also learned that this same procedure can be a fantastic backdrop of bureaucracy. The worst part is when it comes to political red tape. My correction, to be very precise, is not an introduction for no reason, my correction of incorrect allegations refers to Mr Gligorić's position, which 19 of the issue of the election law is bound by the application of Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I don't know, at least four times we've listened to various explanations here and sufficiently decadent that say, that the problem of applying Article 105 to the 15th Law of the High Representative, by its very nature basically, I'll be able to discuss it by dawn, is that they are already in force and as such cannot experience another kind of fate in practice and it is important that we pass the procedure adequate from Article 105. so that we can then be owned by this Parliament and subject to any subsequent amendments and additions to the procedure. In this context, the election law has nothing to do with it. You would now wish to take away my right to participate in the creation of this law. That's why I call it, angry you or not angry this is a mirror for all those who think so. This is the story of obstruction in the form of political bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3922	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Deputy Chairman Željko Mirjanić. I'm sorry, he has the advantage of a member of the College. Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3923	Gentlemen, today is the session of the House of Representatives' College in an extended composition. The agenda was set up at that session. As you know, there's no vote on the agenda now. We have a glamour agenda ahead of us and we are obliged to respect the agenda. These are all ex post interventions. We now need to go to the first item of the adopted agenda, which is the adoption of the prisoners from the 7th session of the House of Representatives. And let me remind you of something. We have agreed at the General College and at this home, if there is no proposing, we are removing the law of this promoter. I beg you, look who's sitting here in front of the Council of Ministers? If we consistently adhere to the principles that we agreed, all clubs, all members of the Expansive College, we would now interrupt the session, adopt the minutes, go to point 2 and stop. I'm not asking you to. We don't want obstruction. We want to work, which means that our request, this principle that we've all been behind here, we leave for the next session, and now we respect the agenda set by the Extended College, and that we're going towards that agenda on that agenda that has been established today by the Expanded College, I don't think we're voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3924	Thank you. Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić, then Mijatović pa Kovačević, has the advantage. A fellow Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3925	I agree with Mr. Mirjanić that this is not practically on the agenda, but since it is already said in some way, Mr. Boro said, concerning the procedure. I agree with him, but I would add not the knowledge and intricacies we had from the Council of Ministers. I remind Article 104, then Article 105, and again I agree with Mr Mirjanić, who is not here today. I felt and suggested and considered it and through the club it went so towards the College that the Council of Ministers as a Proposer should propose that the Election Law goes according to Article 105. As previously said 20 wrongly under Article 104 and then by Article 105 for these 15 laws on a provisional basis and once again I want to tell you. We need to be honest with each other. This argument in the sense that we need those 15 laws to apply without ignoring a law that is the only condition for entering the world of Europe. We've still swallowed a lot of things in this House and we're going to swallow and there's going to be a lot of laws that aren't perfect. It is quite clear, but therefore I ask you and ask you once again to think about it, and when it is on the agenda, and especially the Council of Ministers to send them this message, to re-examine their request and re-design it as a proposal to Article 105, and I tell you, we will very soon get out of this crisis which we wanted to admit or not find. Thank you. There's no agenda, and I wouldn't want any more replicas, because this conversation is getting too high.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3926	I welcome all those present, and I don't think we've adopted an amended agenda, nor have we voted on it. So, there's no agenda right this former colleague of mine, but I would draw attention to one thing. Two concepts are being chased here. Who is the promoter and who is the chairman of this House? In the previous session, the Proposer proposed that the law be adopted under an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. In that case, the speaker of this parliament suggests that MPs first discuss an emergency request and then vote on the law. So, the debate goes into two levels and I can't be surprised that it's such a mix-up and that we can't figure it out right now. I suggest that these laws be put on the agenda now, and I think that's where the Constitutional Commission proposal was headed to discuss urgency first. It is not understood, because it is not written in the Rules of Procedure, but discussed, and then based on the results. If we find that these laws are urgent and deserve the procedure of article 105, then let's vote on the text of the law as it is. I would say in the end that it can never be the same procedure for the adoption of the Electoral Law as this High Representative. This is one specific situation that someone has passed the laws and that we must adopt them in such a painful way. So if the Rules of Procedure have provided for such a procedure, I have no objection to this procedure being respected, and I suggest that it be placed on the agenda, that the first level of our debate be whether it is urgent and that I see who will say it is not, so let it be made clear, and secondly, that we vote on the law, if it is voted that it is an emergency resignation and I ask that it be placed immediately on the agenda after the adoption of the minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3927	poslanik Mijatović. I thank Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3928	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues. I thank the lady who discussed it before me. She explained most of what I wanted to say. Indeed, I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, and I just had to get back to you so you wouldn't go under some kind of undertone that the Constitutional Commission did something other than what the lady of honor said. So it was just, it was wrong in procedure, but here's the need to make mistakes. First it's a vote of urgency, and then it's about the essence and the laws. That's what the Constitutional Commission said. Mr. Chairman, I must refuse any further 21 political qualifications as some others have said both as an MP and as a member of the Constitutional Commission. Because, forgive me, not once, I, as far as I understand any of this member of the Constitutional Commission, nor I as its member nor as an MP, have discussed whether or not the laws that the High Representative has strengthened by his decision should be adopted. On the contrary, we're just wondering now, after all this, what's actually going on, let's see what's behind it, so let's be honest and let's say it. Look, these laws that the High Representative has strengthened by his decision, they are valid, they are in force, or you voted today or did not vote they will apply and no one is contesting it. I don't dispute it as an MP. Gentlemen, I'll be free to argue, here we can adopt all of these others who are not the High Representative so we can strengthen Bosnia and Herzegovina, because our decision whether we will strengthen them or not is of no importance. It is support to the High Representative, and we must go to help the High Representative bring them in, etc., but when we are able to bring them in. Look, it would turn out that someone here is against those laws. That's not what you gentlemen are talking about. But what we're running for, let me tell you from a regular procedure. Look, here's how these laws are put into regular procedure so let's try out gentlemen, maybe we'll find an even better and better-quality solution and invite the High Representative to help us with that, so let's see who doesn't. But this is how the political label gets hit, you know, you can't warn that the Rules of Procedure is being violated, because if you warn that as a member of the Constitutional Commission, you get hit by a political label that you are against the law that he has made, which he has empowered me to say not to force the High Representative or to tell you to force it. He also has the right to do that when we're unable to adopt ourselves, when we're arguing about everything and everything, when we can't even apply the business procedure. If we don't know how to apply it, then I'm afraid we don't even know how to adopt anything and the High Representative, and I'm inviting him to bring us all live natures, because we don't know how to bring or build a country for which we all declare ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3929	On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, last time I suggested that the adoption of these laws be postponed for procedural reasons for the next session, since they were originally proposed under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. In the course of the session, the proposal came to be in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and we have those laws. Parliament has concluded, if you remember, that we have a session in ten to fifteen days and we have a good will to adopt this package of laws, or according to the Rules of Procedure, because democracy is a procedure. Democracy is both good will and last time, when we discussed the security situation in BiH, I pointed out several times behind the pay phone that we would test our goodwill only at the next session. I suggest we separate this package of specific laws, we all pointed out, which were declared by the High Representative for BiH and which are valid laws from the Electoral Law, because today we agreed to Article 104. The electoral law goes into a shortened procedure and we will have the opportunity to talk about it, but to adopt the Election Law in time until June 22nd, thus achieving assumptions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. I propose that we now accept the Constitutional and Legal Commission proposal, to plead on the urgency of these laws, but thus respect the conclusion of this Parliament from last session. We went out to meet, we found a compromise 22 solution, those political parties that needed further consultation. Instead of 10 or 15 days, a month has passed and there has been enough time for such a consultation to plead in accordance with article 105 on the urgency of adopting these laws. If there is a need for this request to be held, let the debate be conducted, to put them on the agenda and after the debate, in accordance with Article 105(3), we are going immediately to this session in the procedure of adopting these laws, not binding these laws to the Electoral Law. This is my proposal, along with the agenda that is proposed and if there is a good will in this House, we will show today that we have solved a common problem, but at the same time we have created assumptions that we can amend these laws, make amendments, because these are what they are, which are on a temporary basis of laws, cannot be changed, amendments cannot be proposed, cannot go into parliamentary procedure, their change, etc. I think that today, as responsible parliamentarians, we could show a good will to show this to Europe that we are closer to integration processes in which we all swear in a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3930	I thank Ambassador Bogičević. We have practically two intonations, I apologize, two intonations on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission conditionally speaking. So it is assumed that after the statement of urgency of the procedure, we should move to Article 105, paragraph 3, where we are going specifically to declare the laws. Is this a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the President of the Commission? The Bogić has expanded.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3931	Please, gentlemen, Mr. Bogićević could speak for what he voted for, and what I said about it we voted for and in my discussion I separated myself, I said until here we agreed, I continue to perform as an MP separately. I'm asking every member of the Constitutional-First Commission to behave like that. I think the lady, not to repeat, has made it quite clear what the point is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3932	We respect no problem. So, we respect our Constitutional and Legal Commission and I beg you, it's a legal proposal and there's no one else's right, we need to make a statement about it. He was looking for a colleague of Billby's.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3933	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3934	Thank you. Time out for 15 minutes. Mr. Bilbija is, Bilbija's MP asked for a break and I would ask him to present his reasons and suggestions for the House of Representatives. [[PAUZA]] 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3935	Dear gentlemen, the club accepts the request of the Constitutional-First Commission, which was issued on behalf of the Commission by the President of the Commission, Mr Mirko Banajc, to vote under Article 105i to accept that the laws adopted by the High Representative are followed by an urgent procedure. I feel that today's session agenda has been established at an extended college and that, according to Article 51 on this agenda, the heads of all clubs, including the head of the SDS Club, Mr Mirko Banjac, have agreed. Since the agenda has already been established and the session is not subject to the proposal, as the applicant did not respect Article 82. Rules of Procedure, we propose that, under the request of the Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted by Mr Banjac, a proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Commission proposed by its President, Mr Banjac, and thus demonstrates the willingness of all MPs to co-operate with the international community, and that the laws are spoken, the debate is held at the next session, since there are no proposings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3936	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3937	Gentlemen, there's no need to mention names here, there's a Rules of Procedure that's clear. What you're going to vote for is your thing, and I'm not going into it, and I'm asking you not to mention names. Behind our proposal is a unanimous Constitutional and Legal Commission to put a point in the agenda. Nothing beyond that. The Constitutional and Legal Commission did not give and this is an abuse of listening. It can be because people haven't heard. We have proposed to Parliament that the agenda be extended to one point, and as you will vote this is your thing, we do not suggest it is not from the jurisdiction of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. We don't have that jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3938	You have received opinions from the Constitutional and Legal Commission in written form, two proposals, one already accepted in the agenda to accept that the agenda should be put in place to declare the proposal for an election law of BiH, which is proposed by Mr Mariofil Ljubić, MP of the House of Representatives, and we propose, also, item 7 and 8. would be parliamentary questions and answers. Eight, means a statement by the House of Representatives on an emergency request from the motion to vote on 15 laws declared by OHR on a provisional basis. That's, here's the whole proposal. Can we move past the vote, or is there someone to answer the question? There isn't. Thank you. Who's in? This is still a changed agenda. Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. We can say unanimously. There's no need for an entity vote. So we realize that we've adopted a partially corrected agenda from an extended college that's already been present, which is: 24 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Selection of members of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation; 3. Request for review under emergency procedure Article 104. Rules of Procedure of two proposals: (a) Proposal for an election law of BiH, is proposed by the Council of Ministers b) Proposal for an election law of BiH, proposed by Mr Mariofil Ljubić, MP of the House of Representatives; 4. Proposal for a law on associations and foundations of BiH, second reading; 5. Proposal for a law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce, first reading; 6. A free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia with the Protocol on the definition of the concept of production with origin and methods of administrative co-operation; 7. Discussing an emergency procedure pursuant to Article 105 of the Council of Ministers' proposal on 15 laws declared on a provisional basis by OHR; 8. MPs' questions and answers. We've adopted this agenda. We can move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of prisoners from the 7th session of the House of Representatives Any objections to the record? There isn't. No Niko's answering. Thank you. Can we adopt the record? Who's in? Thank you. Unanimity. There's no need for an entity vote. We've adopted a record from the 7th session of the House of Representatives. Ad.2. The selection of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: (a) In the Organisation on European Security and Cooperation (b) Central European Initiative (c) to the Interparliamentary Union (d) of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in short lines to inform you that two Colleges of the House of Representatives and the People of the Parliamentary Collatency of BiH sat and agreed on several occasions, partly agreed on the criteria for proposing these delegations, given the obligation, the business obligation to agree on this by two colleges. You have before you a proposal for criteria for the selection of delegations, these four delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Eurpa, the Organisation for European and Security Co-operation and the Central European Initiative, the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the interparliamentary Union. So relations between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH were agreed. Nationalities of individual delegates, i.e. participants, or members of these delegations, have also been proposed. It is also proposed that delegates, or members of delegations from the Federation of BiH and RS, and in this context, agree this proposal on both colleges. Is this a correct proposal, whether it reflects the numerical relationship between the House of Representatives and the House of Nations and everything else, to discuss, but objectively it was the task of the College, both the Colleges and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There remains responsibility at the presidents of parliamentary clubs, at parliamentary clubs, political parties and parties to agree on concrete names that are simple, which are proposed for these 25 delegations, meaning from the Council of Europe to the Interparliamentary Union. We've worked on this for a long time, or MP clubs, and as far as I'm aware, there's still no political consensus to choose, especially the Council of Europe delegations. In this context, I propose that the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, especially those operating at the level of the Federation of BiH, still say their relationship to this, to the delegations, etc. I have information that what is proposed in the RS area is to the greatest extent agreed and that there are no bigger problems. Here you go. Nedžad Šašivarević, president of the Party for BiH Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3939	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I would like first to refer one criticism to the College. At the beginning, they made a mistake in agreeing with representatives from the House of Peoples, which they accepted that this parliamentary delegation in the Ve Parliament should be determined in this way three to two. It's a stumbling block right here. I don't think you should have agreed to this relationship. You can accept this criticism in one way or another, but our proposal of the BiH Party especially in the number of seats, we propose to the Council of Europe delegation, we propose Mrs. Mediha Filipović. If we need to explain something later. What is it, I don't think that at this point should explain what the reason is, you all know that Mrs Filipović is there and that the only woman is proposed here and that the criteria are, I think that this commission, this delegation could go and given the international agreement on gender equality, the equality that should be in that commission to represent one woman and if I don't think that this argument was necessary. In this committee for the Central European Initiative, we propose Mr. Begović and the Interparliamentary Commission, this interparliamentary group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, we propose Mrs. Emina Zaćiragić. These are the party's proposals for BiH, so I think it would, that it would go to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3940	Thank you, Ambassador Šašivarević. Ambassador Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3941	The SDP BiH MPs' club, I also think, respecting the House of Peoples, but that this 17-to-eight ratio is not good and that it could and had to provide room for even more MPs from this home, given its number. The MPs' club proposes, given the number of MPs in this house, the Central European Initiative Violeta Kamberović, the Interparliamentary Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union, Dragi Stanimirović and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mirza Kušljugić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3942	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Neimarli's MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3943	Fellow Members, taking into account the requirements of the Rules of Procedure, who have quite precisely defined the selection of delegations of our parliamentary assembly, estimating, above all, the principles of organisation and the functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly... The Council of Europe, on the trail and what we have heard today from the rapporteur for BiH Mr Šurjan, and, of course, taking into account the fact that the SDA is the party with the SDP that has the most MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the SDA is entitled to have in each of these committees, because according to the Rules of Procedure, it is either the first or second to run for the members of the commission, that it also has representatives for the Interparliamentary Union proposed Mr Vilić, for a delegation for the Central European Initiative of Dr Sead Buturović, for the OSCE Prof. dr. Salih Kulenović and the Council of Europe, Dr Halid Genjac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3944	Let me remind you that I already said from this pay phone that there are agreed opinions and agreements, we have now come back in some way, because between certain clubs no agreement has been reached. To put that question aside, let me just repeat what is known to the MPs and about which there was no dispute. A proposal for two clubs where MPs from the RS are, yes. The organisation for European security and co-operation Mr Branislav Lolić, the Central European Initiative Mr Željko Bilbija, the Interparliamentary Custodian of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, is referring to the delegation Željko Mirjanić, Mr Mirko Banjac, Mr Dušan Stokić. Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Momir Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3945	I thank the deputy chairman, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3946	Mr Chairman, gentlemen of the Assembly, on behalf of the Mixed Club BPS, NHI and Pensioners' Party, I propose the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation of Mrs Osmanović Bahrija, the Interparliamentary Union of Mr Halil Mehtić and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ivo Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3947	Thank you. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3948	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed MPs, I see no reason to work this way. We came here and we're doing what the presidents of Parliament Clubs were supposed to do and I'm begging you, this is one new proof that we're wasting our time here. What's this supposed to mean? Is it true this is half the job? This is the divided MPs between the RS and the Federation of Serbs, Bošnjak and Hrvti, but where are the political parties gentlemen and specific names? Now we've come here in a position to propose our own. I think this has come to not choose. How to do it today. You explain that to me. Now people are going to choose their own, what we're going to vote for here, and you know about the criteria. One is entity membership, the other is nationality and the third is party membership. Here is missing this, what's called party belongings, missing congruent names and attitudes. Point by me isn't ready for the agenda. And please, and I'm looking at so much freedom now that there are those who come out and say that something 27 is agreed that's not agreed. Don't do that. I mean, gentlemen, which is a lot, it's a lot. There's a lot of anger here, that when you alert yourself to the correctness of the path, and when it's deliberately broken, then it's not a warning, and it's supposed to stay that way. Don't do that, I beg you. I think we have important things to do today. We've adopted the agenda. This item should be removed from the agenda until the presidents of the parliamentary clubs sit down and agree that we are not struggling here and that we do not vote. I don't know what's gonna end up with all this. What can eventually come out of this whole thing? Now everyone's going to go out and propose their own, and we're going to have a bunch of suggestions, and no criteria. I ask you, that the country will not fail if this agrees for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3949	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. I must admit one fact, Vice-President Ljubić, but so far we have exhausted the possibilities and arrangements of the parliamentary clubs. We would not have gone to the session if the parliamentary clubs had the political will and the possibility of consensus on the agreement of representatives' names in these parliamentary delegations. So it's no accident that we went with a very risky, simple method and a mechanism for the House to declare itself candidates for these delegations. Here you go, Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3950	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I took part in this extended college and I thought that we were quite close to forming these delegations and in this sense to HDZ representatives, I considered, given our position, where some consider us opposition, some consider us to be different, that it was normal, respecting all of this, that we have in the Council of Europe one person and in the Interparliamentary Union, but since I see that now we have completely strayed from it, given that the previous procedure is now simply going on here, so I'm going to propose that first material that I had and that we have resigned for all of these organizations to propose. Council of Europe Mariofil Ljubić, interparlamentaran Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan, OSS Mirko Baković, Central European Initiative Zdenko Vukić. I'd rather take a stand, if this question, here we'd run for office, if the College tried to find an acceptable variant again, if we could agree on all the delegations, maybe it would be a lot if the club bosses could agree on it, and at least it would be left if we had less to vote here, because otherwise, we're getting into a situation where we have to plead on each person individually, and I don't know how much we need it. Maybe the presidents of the parliamentary clubs would rather make a concession between themselves and make a deal than to vote here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3951	I thank Ambassador Ljubić. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3952	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say just a few words and remind all those present that this item of the agenda has been on the agenda for the fourth time. We keep getting to her, pause, debate, next session. Break, debate, 28 next session, only reason to fight for the chair. The only reason and political tourism in Europe. Gentlemen, how do you intend to negotiate a much bigger matter? I don't want to remind you that if we had those criteria, this ratio of strength wouldn't be. You don't trust what you're doing, and you can't count on support for this kind of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3953	I thank Psolnik Đedović, with the full right of this word I accept personally. Please, Ambassador Bjelobrk, excuse Boro, please, Ambassador Osmanović Bahri.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3954	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, I always sort of get nervous about going to the pay phone, which is my fault, but this time I really had to. I ask you for the last time to respect that among you fellow MPs there are MPs from smaller parties that you must respect and who you must give space to, because we are neither in a position to outvote nor ourselves, but we also feel worthy and obliged to give us what we also belong to as ambassadors of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3955	I thank Bahrija Osmanović. Ambassador Bahri is on the OSCE proposal first. Who's next to the word? Boro Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3956	I have to say, no matter how much I belong to those who probably carry part of the responsibility that we didn't finish this job before, I have to express my dissatisfaction, that we're so late with this job. Assuming the possible effort of all club and club bosses to come to an agreement, I consider it important to adopt a conclusion in this House today that will bring them closer together to bring the job to an end. I'm not saying that they weren't trying to, but as soon as we got to this level of debate, then I guess to find a solution, we need to define some of the criteria under which we're going to get to work. The proposal of my criteria I'm going to announce is going to leave very little room for a bargain to be honest. The table has already announced two first criteria, which relate to entity and national representation, distributed to two homes, as already agreed, I suggest that a third criterion be added, that these 25 places be chosen in a way that corresponds to the proportional representation of the parties in each of these homes, according to the quotas that have been drawn out. What it says, let's just say, it seems that in all the agreements so far, it hasn't been brought to an end. In other words, if we had a table like that, I think it would be easier to come to an agreement. As this could have been mathematically expressed, this quota of representation in homes per party could have been provided and I think we would have come a lot easier. 29 So, I suggest, in any case, that today it be the conclusion of this home that this third criterion is introduced, under which the club heads are obliged to declare a harmonised criterion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3957	Is anyone else answering for word? Do any of the club bosses who made the proposals have any suggestions on how to resolve it? We don't think voting on every candidate would be productive in Parliament. Can you back off and agree to these suggestions? Five representatives of political clubs. You have to agree, not if you can, but you have to agree. You have, I ask you in 15 minutes to sit down and try to agree on the composition of these delegations. I'm begging you. Five representatives of clubs from HDZ, SDA, SDP, SBiH and Mixed Club, who runs Lozančić, sit down and try to agree. So it's the last attempt of the goodwill of this Parliament to try to get along. It's the only possible way. There is no other way, respecting the criteria and election results of parties, multiethnicity, more party site, full etc., you have to agree, so you have no alternatives. I suggest you take a break for 15 minutes. Here are the club presidents. Can we know how many of us are in the O.R.? [[PAUZA]] 30 we can work, right? Thank you. In the meantime, I'm sure someone will come. Thanks to the tolerance of political parties and parties and political clubs, we have established an agreement. The SDP has given up its candidate for the Council of Europe. The SDA granted an inter-party agreement to the House of Peoples, to have delegates in the Council of Europe, and in this sense we relaxed the situation. So, I propose a consistent proposal. For the Council of Europe, we propose the following: Mediha Filipović, Momir Tošić and Ivo Lozančić. Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin are delegates and in this context we propose to be members of a parliamentary delegation to the Council of Evorpe, which counts five candidates. The axes. Our two candidates are Branislav Lolić and Bahrija Osmanović by the House of Representatives. The Interparliamentary Union, on behalf of the House of Representatives Mirko Banjac, Željko Mirjanić, Dušan Stokić Emina Zaćiragić, Miro Grabovac, Dragi Stanimirović and Halil Mehtić. Central European Initiative: Željko Bilbija, Muhamed Begović, Violeta Kamberović and Mirko Baković. Here we included, as you can see, the HDZ, were representatives of the club in all the controversy of the club's behaviour, yet we chose to be represented as members of these delegations. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Ambassador Mirko Banjac. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3958	Dear gentlemen, since, of course, you have a majority you can watch as you think, because the SDS party is not adequately represented in the protest I will not accept the candidacy and I don't know, I suggest Mirko Mijatović if he wants to accept this place. Do Mirko Mijatović take the place. Next Jovanović. Jovanovic, do you want us to handle this? Thank you, if anyone accepts, I'm mostly out of protest returning the candidacy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3959	So, Jovanović instead of Mirko Banjac. Here's the nod. With this intervention, is there anyone else to answer for? Please, after the difficult, exhausting debates and the alignment of these proposals, who is for the whole delegations that are proposed. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? No one's against it, we've got four abstentions, or six insolent ones. Is an entity vote necessary? We have 31 present. For it was 24 – abstention 6 however, with consultation to check the entity's vote. Who's from the RS area for? From the RS area for. Great. We've got most of it. Who's from the Federation area for? With the RS space, 9 voted - meaning adopted and 17 votes to the Federation of BiH - adopted and I congratulate the new elected members of international delegations with the belief that they will play a significant role on this road to European integration. Yeah, right. Mr. Ramiz Vilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3960	When we were up at the alignment, me as I recall there was one place in the Interparliamentary it seemed to me to the Union, I didn't give me a name, but I said we'd make a deal here and we'd give a name.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3961	Wait a minute. That's right. I'm sorry. That's right. What was the name? Ramiz Vilić. I'm asking you to respect this intervention. Thank you. There is no wonder in this pursuit and the goal of bringing this proposal into line to make changes like this. 31 Ad.3. Request for an urgent examination of Article 104. Rules of Procedure (a) Proposal for an electoral law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and (b) Proposal for an electoral law of BiH, is proposed by Mr Mariofil Ljubić, MP of the House of Representatives here we have the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. You got it in writing. Is there a need for oral excretion? Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3962	With the agenda point when I proposed, I gave the obstetrics. Now I hope I get a chance to explain more widely. I think we are entering a new situation where BiH and its parliament will not be able to adopt the Electoral Law, because we are now going to have several versions, and so far we have two versions. We have two proposings. Given that, I said it this morning, and now I want to do it again. If gentlemen are urgent what works, then it is even more urgent, and this is the Electoral Law, which is the condition of BiH's admission to the World of Europe. With that in mind, when I proposed this item of the agenda, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that in the past period, we had long agreed on one text, hard, long-term, giving up our opinions and opinions, sharing both responsibilities and ideas with others. When we got close, someone said there was no suggestion. That's a long time gone. There's been a lot of stories here, about how we trust and it's good to trust. Faith in that trust is more than half the time of success. That is why I have proposed and I suggest once again that we reach a conclusion on gentlemen's transition to the possible poor development of the election law, that this Parliament adopt the conclusion of the corresponding content. The BiH Parliamentary Collateral House adopts the view that the latest version of the OHR proposal, an OSCE expert's proposal, is adopted in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, gentlemen, we're all giving it a little bit, and that's according to the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen. It's election law, sir. We're discussing Election Law. I'm not discussing anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3963	Mr. Banjac, we're discussing point 3 below a and b.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3964	I have the right to suggest a conclusion as an MP, in a scale with a agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3965	I thought you were acting president of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. It means parliamentary interventions. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3966	Yes, it is. I think that if we all agreed and I asked to make it clear, you could reject it, show first that we have confidence in experts from international organisations and secondly, give up the next days of hard debate and reconciliation, and where it will certainly not be and we will come into the position of gentlemen or that we have no electoral law or that it is re-imposed by the High Representative, and it can cost, as Mr Šurjan said, the admission of BiH to the Council of Europe. In order for this to not happen, I suggest that this conclusion be reached as a compromise solution to this whole situation. I ask that my motion be spoken to by Parliament. Of course, yes, and, if voted negatively, I will vote in favour of this proposal, which the Constitutional and Legal Commission has spoken of, but I consider this my parliamentary right as I am now, to seek a compromise solution in such a difficult situation. The reason for this is, as it is possible that the laws that function are urgent and those that are a condition for us to be admitted to the Council of Europe have time to postpone and I tell you, we all know well, who we are sitting here, don't tell me there's going to be a lot of peripendence about it. That he wouldn't get along. There'll be a lot of amendments. There will be so much work, eventually it will all fall into the water and it will turn out that Parliament is ineffective. Let's show it now. Here, let's make it a package and this electoral law and make those laws a single package and let's show that we want to do it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3967	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Emina Zaćiragić, an MP for the BiH Party.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3968	I'd like to say right now that I disagree. That the procedure for the adoption of the electoral law goes to article 105. I think this law deserves to be discussed at Parliament and that no version is adopted as proposed, at least not without debate. I don't know if she'll be adopted, but I'd point out not a few moments, if I could discuss the law at all now, at least for the opening part. This law is not in line with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I'll name only one part so I don't bother you with the owl, there'll be time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3969	poslanik Zaćiragić, we are not discussing the law today. We are discussing an emergency procedure request under Article 104. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3970	These are the reasons why I don't think there's a need or an opportunity to argue under this article 105. I'll just give you a case to determine the whereabouts. According to the proposed text, the residence is the one which, according to the last list or upon application in the municipality, is based on the law. It's about that former member, pattern P2, because there's a lot of people who've been reported, other people's apartments, other people's property, it can't be taken under the freedom of movement, the determination of the place of residence. What about those 33 people who have first come back to their house and what about their rights to freedom of movement under the European Convention and I think, given the situation and many more, which is not in agreement with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, we cannot adopt this law without a crackdown, and I suggest that we do not adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3971	We'll have a chance to discuss the Electoral Law for sure. Mr. Mirza Kušljugić, SDP MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3972	Since we're all in favour of procedure, I suggest we work on the agenda and discuss whether this law can go according to Article 104. That's what's on the agenda here today, and only a small replica of the great knower of the procedure Mr. Banjac said that in a package of laws we shouldn't go and it's not right to propose an election law with a package of all 15 laws. I think there's a little disagreement. I'm just here to stick to the procedure and first to discuss whether this law is a name by Article 104?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3973	My intentional messenger that I have no intention of spending much time, but you did not listen to me very carefully. I said in a time of compromise, and that must be a compromise. You're right, there's no package, and I said, if the first concessions to benefit everyone, then it's not a sin to break something if it's a sure thing. The sure gain is that in the 6th month, at least that's how the representatives of the political parties, Mr. Šurjan, in Banja Luka, would have informed him that at the 6th month he would have started with the gentlemen's procedure. That was my motive, to suggest this conclusion to you. I insist on the chairman, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if the conclusion, or the decision would replace what is being discussed, then a position is first made on him. So, if this parliament, in other words, would adopt my proposal to apply Article 105 to an election law proposed by a group of experts, and I have signed today that I am a motioner in front of Parliament, because on that first, gentlemen would meet the conditions and we would have a reception in the 6th month, a debate on our accession to the Council of Europe. I ask you to make a statement, whatever it is you say about what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3974	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure foresee the possibility of interpretation and resolution. The conclusion as a form, expressing the position of this parliament is not known to the Rules of Procedure. He's not familiar with the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, look at the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, second thing, every MP has first accepted the OSCE proposal and as his own to forward it to Parliament. Third thing, we don't have that kind of OSCE proposal on the agenda today. I'm begging you. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3975	Sir, I suggest a decision with the same content instead of a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3976	Mr. Neimarlia MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3977	I'm afraid my colleague Banjac has made a procedural mistake here. The proposal would suggest a proposal to change the agenda, because we have placed the law in the agenda according to Article 104. So we can't change the agenda by concluding a colleague of Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3978	I will now take myself first to read to you the Rules of Procedure, but I beg you not to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3979	Is the agenda changing this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3980	It's changing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3981	It's changing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3982	As part of the agenda, the honourable MP, decisions and conclusions may be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3983	But if they don't change the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3984	They don't change the point. They solve the same problem, it's election law issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3985	But we need to get the arguments to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3986	...refuse it, but there's no problem, don't deny me the right to vote, and you refuse.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3987	I'm just asking the question of the procedure of my colleague Banjac. It's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3988	I think I have the right as an MP to make a statement about it, and you vote whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3989	My friend Banjac, we don't have to worry. We cannot, as Parliament, make a procedural statement of the conclusion that includes two requirements, it is one thing for us to move from Article 104 to 105 and automatically include all three points of Article 105 in the sense that it is adopted without debate, or without amendment. We can't make two decisions with one conclusion. I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3990	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. I ask you, in the realisation of the agenda, we have a goal to declare: a) The proposal for an electoral law of BiH – is proposed by the Council of Ministers. The same law promoter is Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, MP of the House of Representatives. We don't have any other suggestions. They had to come before defining this agenda point and I beg you. I'll do it for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3991	Business intervention. You don't know what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3992	Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3993	Please, gentlemen, I did not ask Parliament not to answer these two questions. I said it should be made known, but at the same time it needs to be made known about the decision that I have proposed, which is being replaced, it can actually be replaced by this right now, by the same problem. If you, I won't go out again, if you don't put it on record, then the MP is denied the right to propose a decision on the agenda. That's all I want to write down.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3994	Thank you, Ambassador Banjac. Article 61 It defines this matter. However, before that, we will make a statement on the item in question on the agenda. Whether or not someone appears about a) and b) what is on the agenda. He's not answering. Thank you. Who is to refer Bosnia and Herzegovina's draft electoral law to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for an urgent procedure under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Who's in? I thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. We can say unanimously that we have adopted that the proposal for the election law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the proposal by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is being referred to in parliamentary procedure under the urgent procedure of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. b) The proposed election law of BiH is proposed by Mr Mariofil Ljubić, MP of the House of Representatives. Who is it to refer this law, also by article 104, to parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Who's being held back? We also find that, unanimously with 33 votes, we have adopted that the proposal of the BiH Election Law, proposed by MP Mriofil Ljubić, MP of the House of Representatives, also, by an urgent procedure of Article 104, enters the parliamentary procedure. This proposal remains for Mr Banjac to be decided on, that the latest version of the OSCE law be adopted as the basis of the Election Law. I beg you, everything is legitimate and everything can be proposed. Is there anyone to report for this intervention, or a proposal from the MP Banjac? Mr. Neimarlija. In accordance with Article 105. We don't have a decision text. This is in oral form, a decision. poslanik Neimarlija for the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3995	I'm uncomfortable that we're developing an argument, but I'm afraid I didn't get along with my colleague Banjac at first. Paragraph 1 but attitude 2 says very clearly that it can be done by the chairman of the House. So, not an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3996	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3997	Proposer of the law, in this case, the Council of Ministers. You should have passed the law, Mirko, you as your proposal. Well, let's not, if we're going to play procedure. Please, you can't suggest at first point, brother. To read, /I didn't bring glasses/ Article 105. Article 1 when the proposal for a high degree of urgency or a proposal for a law which is not so complex that it can only be adopted or rejected completeness, the Proposer may ask the House in writing to consider it in a single reading, in a single reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3998	Bring my proposal, I wrote it in writing today as Mr. Ljubić did. Today it is debated about him, and this is not what he will do.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u3999	Please, it was the agenda. Ambassador Banjac proposed a correction to the agenda, he proposed a) and b) did not propose a third point c) we are sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4000	Comrade Banjac, I'm reading the second act. The request from the previous point shall be submitted directly to the chair of the home, at its first next session. The House will decide on the request after the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4001	That's right. We went to meet Mr. Ljubić to come to a solution. This is what I suggested, gentlemen, that we get to the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4002	Thank you for the noble idea. Unfortunately, we cannot even declare this decision, or Article 105. Moving to the next item of the agenda 4. Ad.4. Proposal for a law on associations and foundations of BiH, second reading, please, who answers the question? You have received a report on the amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on associations and foundations of BiH, the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Is anyone answering for a word? Does the Constitutional and Legal Committee's rapporteur have a need to say something about this amendment perhaps? Thank you. No Niko's answering for a hearing. Who is to adopt the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? I also thank you. 33 votes in favor. The law, with the amendment, normal and the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, was adopted by the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH. Moving to point 5. 38 Ad.5. The proposed law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce, this is the first reading can also be discussed on the principles and simple basic settings of this law. Here you go. I'm opening a debate. We have a report from the commission. We have amendments to the draft law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce, which was delivered by MP Mirko Banjac. You've got it in front of you. This is in writing. Here you go. I'm opening a debate. First reading, Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4003	Dear gentlemen, since this is about first reading, therefore, we are talking about the basis of this law on the justification of its adoption, the aspects covered by this law, the areas covered by it, I want to say that I have made amendments which, as I have been informed today, are not accepted on the commission. For your sake, and for the sake of the public, I want to briefly elaborate the reasons why I submitted the amendments and I want to say that I did not give up that legal term, since the second reading, to the House of Representatives of my amendment. The first thing I wanted to stress, as a need, was that in the structure of the BiH Chamber of Commerce, I wanted to point out that, the BiH Chamber of Commerce, they are the chambers of the entity, that they are its component. This is clearly a respected reality and you all know that we also have at the level of the entity of the ministry that covers this area, which is why more is the reason to find structurally who makes up the chamber – the Chamber of Commerce of BiH. Furthermore, I think it is clear to all of you that BiH institutions do not have their original income, in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement and the United States, and therefore the financing of the Chamber should be consistent with this, legal, or constitutional solution. So, the BiH future chamber should be financed one-third from the RS Chamber of Commerce budget and two-thirds from the Federation of BiH's Chamber of Commerce budget, in order to bring its organisation, or organisation, into line with constitutional solutions, within the framework of the functioning of BiH institutions. I believe this way of funding creates the obligation of the active participation of entity chambers in providing the BiH Chamber of Budgets. Also, point 2 provides opportunities for the BiH chamber, within the framework of the 22nd law, to actively participate in the procurement of funds for its needs. Thirdly, gentlemen, you all know that, the BiH Chamber of Commerce should be a legal follower of the SRBiH Chamber of Commerce and that there is property. So we need to regulate the use of property. The use of property will be arranged by contracts, so I think, which will conclude the competent authority of the Chamber and the chambers of commerce and professional associations, which are listed in Article 3 of this Law, based on the division of the business between collective members. This solution sets out the criteria, which will be the basis for the conclusion of a contract on the use of property of the current Chamber of Commerce of BiH, which was created by the introduction of part of the property of all BiH chambers, while forming it on the basis of 39 Laws on the Education of Single Chambers of Commerce, Official Journal of the FNR No. 22 of 62. I note that this view regarding the use of property in the process of preparing this material was also held by the Federation of BiH Chamber of Commerce. These are my key remarks, which I ask you to consider during this period ahead of us and to see if this solution is in line with the existing, real-life situation in BiH, and I hope that you MPs will have more understanding when you decide on my amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4004	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Does the President of the Commission, Mr Gligoric, need to say a few words on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4005	Ladies and gentlemen, you have received a report from the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, which, among other things, says that we need this law and an explanation for what it is. The Commission considered amendments by Mr Mirko Banjac and did not receive the necessary majority in the Commission and proposed that the amendments be made to the House's statement, as Mr Banjac remains with the amendments. The Foreign Trade and Customs Commission adopted the proposal for a law on BiH's external trade chamber in the extended text and proposes that the House of Representatives be declared as well as Mr Banjac's amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4006	Here you go, fellow Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4007	Mr President, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say, unfortunately, that I have not been informed at all about this meeting and express my dissatisfaction and I do not know what it would be like to vote if I were on that committee. Now I don't know who's to blame, but I want to tell the truth about the fact that I wasn't invited to that committee at all to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4008	I thank Ambassador Spasojević. poslanik Gligorić, probably an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4009	I want to say that the Commission had a quorum and that we have a record about it, but what Mr. Spasojević said, an MP, is true, that he was not present without being informed about it. I am also asking Parliament to create the necessary conditions for the work of all committees, because this commission, in particular, at each session, we get another 40 secretaries and so we lose the continuity and the technical part we need. Therefore, the Commission essentially had a quorum and this is valid.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4010	I thank the President of the Commission. Who's next to the word? First reading and discussion on details. No Niko's answering again. Can we make a statement about the further procedure of this law and the first reading? Who's in? We're voting on first reading. Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained. Thank you. Once again, we realize that we are 33 votes, whether 31 are present – 29 voted for, which means there is no reason to go to the entity majority check. I agree that we approved the first reading and agreed that the Law could go to the next session of the House of Representatives and the second reading. We can move on. Ad.6. The Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, with the Protocol on the definition of the concept of production with origin and methods of administrative co-operation Report by the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Marko Amidžić, received on the Free Trade Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia with the Protocol on the definition of production concepts with origin and methods of administrative co-operation with contributions. I wouldn't read it, you got it in writing. Who's answering for a word? I'm opening a discussion. No Niko's answering. Who is it to adopt this Protocol on Free Trade between BiH and the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone restrained? Thank you. We can also conclude that, unanimously with 32 votes, we have adopted a protocol on free trade between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, or an agreement with the Protocol on the definition of production concepts with origin and methods of administrative co-operation. We have a point 7 that we've completed today, which is Ad.7. The proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to approve 15 OHR laws, which have been declared on the provisional basis of instructions in the parliamentary procedure, means that an emergency procedure under Article 105 is approved. Is there a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4011	The Constitutional First Commission under the Rules of Procedure has no right to do so. The promoter has asked for this right and the chairman of the House is obliged to put it to the vote, with this Constitutional and First Commission has no right to propose anything in this regard. Therefore, I ask you to say that at the request of the president, you, as chairman, are putting the House to declare the procedure. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4012	It's not a dispute. Article 105.St. 2. puts the chairperson to vote for an emergency procedure, Article 105.zakon, declared by the High Representative on a provisional basis. Who's in? For 15 laws. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? We have three, four, five, abstentions. Five abstentions. 27 for. No Niko against and five abstentions. A total of 32 MPs voted and I realize that we adopted on the proposal of the chairman under Article 105 that the laws of the High Representative were declared a provisional basis, 15 of them instructions in the parliamentary procedure under emergency procedure, Article 105. Moving to the last item of the agenda 8. Ad.8. MPs' questions and answers, please. Ambassador Šarganović. Ambassador Šarganović, in writing, delivers the question. Thank you. Here you go, Ambassador Bjelobrk. I'm asking you a little more patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4013	I have a question for the chairman of this house. I referred the Ministerial Council to the event issue, concerning the necessary information from the RS government regarding the events in Trebinj and Banja Luka. I indicated my level of urgency until May 15th to get an answer. What have you done in the Presidency of this House to provide me with that answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4014	Ambassador Bjelobrk will get an answer. From the College, of course. College of this house, no presidency. Thank you for asking. Is there anyone else? Ambassador Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4015	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the hospital treatment I have had in the immediate past, I have not been able to ask any parliamentary questions in writing for today's session, so allow me to announce my parliamentary questions to enter the stenogram for today's session, and later, in an open time in writing. I think the Rules of Procedure allow it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4016	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4017	I have five parliamentary questions. First, it refers to the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement. We are all witnessing the situation in which 42 are applied and how Annex VII is implemented. It refers to exiles, displaced persons and Serbian and Bosniak and Croatian nationalities and national minorities, otherwise I think of citizens all together. We're all witnesses not to elaborate now, so I'll explain it in writing. The second issue concerns the application of curricula and programmes in the field of primary and secondary education. We're probably not all witnesses on the ground what the situation is. There's a lot of awkward stuff coming up. There are such things that are involved in religion and others involved, let's say other extreme elements that try their own methods to carry out certain assimilations, to put certain pressures on our children, on our youth, when it comes to the realization of the curriculum and programmes in primary and secondary schools, and I will in writing explain it specifically with examples that I don't bother you very much. Because this way, really, we can't provide reconciliation for citizens and I'd say more people. The third question is city names and settlements. Again, we are witnessing and over-freedom and a little abuse of witnesses to take the right to determine and change the names of historic cities, to change the names of settlements. I agree that municipalities can and should establish street names, but cities and settlements, this should be passed by a special law on this, which is ultimately the interest of the state, because politics is already at stake. The next question, the issue of setting up monuments, and other symbols in the sovereign BiH territory. BiH as the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in '92 was recognised on the basis of a referendum and as such registered in the UN as the sovereign republic of the BiH state. Unfortunately, it happens to us that certain extremist elements never think of the people, never think of large groups, but of certain influential extremist elements, which try to provide monuments, or certain symbols in the territory of sovereign BiH, and thus irritate citizens and cause hatred, or prevent our action to reconcile citizens. What we plotted. The last question, yes, is the question of the legal status of the pensioners' homes. Maybe you'll resent me because I'm retired. Please, nice. In 1994, the Law on Turning Social Property into Private Property was passed. The pensioners' homes belong, given their way of creating, given the separation of material goods by the working people who have formed the homes of pensioners. They are now more between heaven and earth, their status, still, neither legal nor material is resolved. It goes from moment to moment and very difficult things are done, and there, dear friends, settled pensioners, weary, expelled in certain homes, are placed socially endangered, everyone knows it. Today we have no legal status resolved. The question has also been asked at the Federation level, this to pass the law, it has been avoided. The question has been asked at canton level and we have no concrete answer on that. I think and argue, and I am convinced that this is the state's interest first and foremost to solve this social problem in its territory. Thank you very much. Please allow me to put this in writing, to enter a stenogram with today's date, with today's session as a question. I will ask these questions to the Council of Ministers, ask questions to other competent authorities, which I consider to be responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4018	Registered with a stenogram. There's no doubt. You can deliver it in writing to the Assembly, or the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4019	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow delegates, MPs, I will not ask parliamentary questions, but I would ask for something, or I would suggest, that our future meetings, we come a little more prepared, we come with the belief that we are for the BiH state, we want all of us who are sitting to build it, like our only country, where we will all live equally, all three people, all of us citizens and get rid of some of those to say party disciplines. To think here as members of certain parties. We are delegated here by the people and we will work in the interest of this country. This is my advice and instruction, because these, many of these pauses are so tiring us. These are over-sustaining sessions in which nothing is agreed alive, this is my appeal in the end to be more prepared and to be, as we say, with more democratic will for compromises in the interests of this country, so much. And the parliamentary issues, I imagined this assembly, Parliament a little differently. Who do I ask the MPs questions to? You see, at first everyone's here, half an hour, an hour and then everyone leaves. There's no Council of Ministers, there's no members of the Bureau, there's no one, and I think it'd be good if we had some of them sitting here. If they can't be fully composed, at least certain representatives, but it would be good if these sessions weren't the same day as the Council of Ministers and Parliament, so they couldn't be here, which is perfectly normal. In two places, man cannot be, to take a little care of everything, and then I think that both this work and this congregation would be a far more efficient and certainly well-intentioned proposal to be more concrete, clearer, and louder. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4020	I ask you, suggestions, proposals, parliamentary questions but not, MP Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4021	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I'm not going to ask anything, I'm going to ask for an answer, since I didn't get an answer from the 4th and 5th sessions and now I'm asking again and get some answers I've given about the budget. I never got those answers, so now I'm asking you to speed it up for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-05-17-0.u4022	I thank Ambassador Spasojević. Is anyone else answering for word? Thank you for your efforts and your efforts to bring this session to an end and see you soon. I'm finishing the 8th session of the House of Representatives. The seat was closed at 6:15.
