ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5106	...respected guests, I am opening the 15th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to members of the House's meeting, they were called: the chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Office of the High Representative, representatives of the organisation for security and co-operation in Europe of the OSCE, representative of the European Union, representative of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, representative of the European Union's Observer mission to BiH, representatives of the embassy, representatives of other international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Representatives of public information funds were also invited. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for your presence and participation in the work of this house. I would like to inform you that Mr. Frankk Orton, the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was to attend the session. We agreed, we asked Mr. Orton to leave today's address to the House of Representatives, for reasons related to the course of the session and asked him to participate in the work of this house when we discuss human rights and freedoms. Mr. Frank Orton is pleased to accept this, our proposal and he will participate in the work of this house when we consider issues concerning human first and freedom. On your behalf, we thank you for your understanding. Gentlemen, we're moving on to work. According to the Home Service report, I find 35 MPs present. From the Federation of BiH, 22 MPs and from RS 13 MPs. The absence from the session was justified by MPs: Mariofil Ljubić, Mustafa Cuplov, Dragi Stanimirović and Ivo Lozančić. The seat has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Gentlemen, for today's session, you received a draft agenda, which was agreed at a session of the Extended College, held on 9 October. However, there have been some new circumstances, and at the meeting of the College, held yesterday, 23.o.m. Consent reached on certain amendments and additions to the proposed order, and this morning we agreed on a session of the Extended College of this House. It is my duty to briefly explain the removal of certain points in the agenda proposal you received for the session. Point 3. The Commission's report to the College on 2 efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the external trade chamber of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The consent procedure in the House College is under way. During the consensus, all three members of the College were agreed, so a consensus was reached, to organise a meeting of the House's Colleges with representatives of all three chambers, which are interested, the Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Chamber of Commerce of Commerce of the Federation of BiH and the Chamber of Commerce of RS, as well as the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. The initiative for this was given by all three chambers. They want this neighborhood and we've accepted it. The next point is point 5. A proposal for a law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be a second reading. Instead of this point, a request from the Council of Ministers to consider a new draft law on free zones in BiH as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I would not speak about the Council of Ministers or the RES, but the information received by the College did, that, at the request of the IMF, certain corrections had to be made to the law. From the proposed agenda, paragraphs 17 and 18 have been removed, and these are the proposals for a decision to determine the status of buildings and land in the Street of Marshall Tito 16 and Bistrica No 16 (6), for the following reasons. For decision making, i.e. temporary decisions, the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency or the Council of Ministers are in charge. The House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly, cannot make that kind of decision. It's up to us gentlemen, it's our jurisdiction to pass the law. So, the Council of Ministers should give us a law that will regulate this matter, because, as you know, this issue is the subject of the law. The matter is regulated by law, and can be temporarily regulated in order to perform a normal function, by a decision by either the Presidency or the Council of Ministers. So, we expect that either the Council of Ministers or the Presidency, probably the Council of Ministers, is not my suggestion, but I suppose the text of the law and that we regulate that matter by law. The College agreed to remove points 20 and 21 from the agenda of this session and are the general directions and priorities for implementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy and Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's activities in the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe. The College agreed that these points should be discussed at a joint session of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is scheduled to take place in early November. In the extended college, which was held before this session, the orientation date, which is November 6th, so thematic session, a joint session of both homes. It is also a request from the Commission for external affairs of the House of Representatives. You've been informed that they've sent this request to us. We accepted that request. And finally, the order of agenda points has been moved to give priorities to some points of the agenda on importance. You know that we make the agenda so that first the laws of second reading go, then first reading, by law, and according to order 3 of the laws, we determine according to the importance of the law. So how do we assess what law is important? It is normal in all parliaments and there is nothing new. Here, gentlemen, I have introduced you to the amendments to the proposed agenda, which have arisen in the context of the circumstances, which I said agreed this morning at a session of the House of Representatives in an extended watch. You've got a new agenda proposal on the bench. Gentlemen, please, who's answering for your word? I don't think I should read the proposal not to waste any time you've all got. Excuse me. Who's answering for a word? I figure no one's answering for a word. According to the Rules of Procedure, if the agenda is established on the Enlarged College, there is no vote on the agenda. Therefore, we can move to point one immediately. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Representatives. I'm sorry. I've got to figure out the agenda. That's what got my attention for shooting the session. So I'll just read the agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Representatives; 2. MPs' questions and answer 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the VII amendment to the BiH-US grant agreement on a reconstruction funding programme called the "business Development Programme"; 4. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in BiH, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure; 5. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport – second reading; 6. Proposal for a law on the BiH citizens' ID card – first reading 7. Proposal for a Central Recording and Data Exchange Act – First Reading; 8. Proposal for a law on residence and residence of BiH citizens – first reading; 9. Proposal for a law on single parent number – first reading 10. Proposal for a law on industrial ownership in BiH – first reading; 11. Proposal for a consumer protection law – first reading; 12. Proposed copyright law and related rights in BiH-first reading; 13. Proposal for a Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH – First Reading; 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH – First Reading; 15. Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 16. Proposal for a resolution on missing persons in BiH – submitted by MP Osman Brka; 17. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Amendment 2, with the Agreement of the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROFIMA; (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Turkey with a reciprocal improvement and protection of investments, and 4c) Agreement on conflict issues. That's the agenda we adopted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 14th session of the House of Representatives. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, pal Malkić. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5107	Gentlemen chaired by fellow Members and other guests. I mean, I want to point out one fact, I think it's easy to move on the way the minutes are adopted and we're being stolen and how big technical mistakes are made. If you take the record and on the back page, multiple signatures. 26 MPs voted for ratification of the VII Amendment of 32 – against vote 1 and abstained 7. When we count as many votes as we get, it's more votes than it's in the O.R. So let's take this issue seriously and another case is our Rules of Procedure under Rule 68 and the previous members don't know, if we vote electronically or in any other way, there are no voters, but there are those who are present and who are voting, so there's a difference. We have a vote in favour, against and abstention, and it doesn't give us the sum, the number of those in the O.R. I draw attention to such a problem and eventually take the necessary steps or towards amending the Rules of Procedure, which treats decision making, and to correct what I have just stated. And another case, on page 8, and the third sentence, says: “Amendment to Articles 22 and 28 has not been adopted. Of the 38 present, 14 and 15, respectively. How much did it vote? It's either 14 or 15? Against 23 and 22 respectively, 1 MP was abstained”. Then when we play math we get illogicalities that are not suitable for this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5108	Thank you very much, Mr. Malkić. Is anyone else answering for a word on the record? Does the Secretary of the House want to answer Mr Malkić's remarks?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5109	I'd have to check our stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5110	We can now, since there is no debate here, we need to make a statement about the objections. So, I would like to put Mr Malkić's remarks to the vote, so that after that we can approach the adoption of the minutes. Who is it that accepts the remarks made by Mr Malkić and is being checked to correct mistakes? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Abstained? I find it unanimous. According to the Rules of Procedure, if the observations are adopted, appropriate amendments will be entered in the minutes and these amendments will be introduced, as the 5 session shoots are not a problem. I'd like to ask the MPs to come forward about the minutes. Who's so we can adopt the record? I ask the messengers to plead. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that the record was unanimously adopted, that 35 MPs voted and that all 35 MPs voted in favour. Gentlemen, MPs, we're moving on to agenda two. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers, please. The Council of Ministers is here. The Bureau members are here. You can ask questions. Word came from a colleague named Brka Osman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5111	Dear Presidency members of the Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues, guests and journalists, I have one question, which certainly interests all BiH citizens today, especially those whose very important life-interest is gas. Is there anyone in this country that can answer the citizens correctly? When will the gas come and not in a day or two? We've been listening to that answer for a month now, and that's not an answer. Is there anyone who will be responsible for telling BiH citizens for a month that the gas will come in a day or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5112	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Let's move on. Are you looking for an answer right now or after?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5113	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5114	Malkić have our support for your answer. Thank you very much. Let's move on. A kolega Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5115	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, esteemed representatives of the international community, respected representatives of the BiH Presidency and the media. Since BiH is in the truth in one phase to say "poverty", here is proof that there is no gas. That's what the question is here. Who is in the interest of destroying the Aluminium Mostar, and through it, BiH's reputation, which is struggling to reach foreign investors, brings foreign investors into our country. 6 Since it is known that so far 5 billion dollars have entered the Aluminium Mostar, Aluminium is now bringing money to BiH without a problem and which is why someone would touch such a company. Aluminium is still a major construction site, expanding modernisation, modernising electrolysis, left-handedness, and most importantly, new jobs are created in a socially critical and sensitive time, when people across BiH are already dissatisfied, located on the street with no basic means of living and no visible solutions to the existence of these problems. With that, I'm going to ask two questions today. What have the institutions done, initiating production in the Aluminium Mostar, that is, what has the Council of Ministers done and what is done at the arrival of foreign investment in the Aluminium Mostar, and in what way will it protect, a blow to its reputation in the business world? My second question also applies to the Council of Ministers, namely the Government of the Federation, but via the Council of Ministers. Has the government of the Federation of BiH, at one of its sessions, discussed Aluminium Mostar, and has the decision or conclusion of the government or individual to block the account of one of the most successful businesses in BiH? My second question is, since there are great speculations in the public, when it comes to the blockages of Aluminium, since Aluminijum is directly or indirectly the fruit of Aluminijum and what would that mean, would this mean bringing again and creating another greater poverty than BiH is today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5116	Thank you. You respected the Rules of Procedure. You have asked questions in writing, and I would ask the MPs to respect that business rule. If I've seen the word correctly, there's a Psolnik Vukić Zdenko.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5117	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the presidency, the Honorable President, the esteemed colleagues, all present guests, as a representative who comes in front of the two counties, I feel the obligation here to ask a question concerning the co-operation of the Parliament of the allowance Croats. Why did the competent institutions not appoint another court for the processing of a group of thirsty Hrvat? Do they intend to do that? A logical question arises, who can at this time ensure fair processing of a group of picket Hrvat? Opening these processes and these processes are nothing but release, I must say, an evil spirit, I must say from Bosnia. A lot of evil happened at that time. All those who have been involved in this in any way, well know that all of this is said today, that it is very... find the basis, but I believe that a one-national court in Zenica is certainly not a place where this group can be prosecuted at this time. It should also be said that one of our colleagues is a representative, one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5118	Thank you. You'll hand this over to the Secretary of the House. Can we still, possibly wait, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is ready to answer the questions asked, but let's see if there are any more questions. Give a written question to the Secretary of the House. 7 We must have records. Are there any more questions, gentlemen? I give my word to the Chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5119	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed fellow MPs, chairor and members of the Bureau, we were last time at the House Representative's session, also had questions, which were asked as a previous item of the agenda, before it went to other matters, on the agenda points, and then it was concluded how much I remembered that the future questions were being asked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to remind you, the questions were defined by the Rules of Procedure of your 124th to Article 129th, and I realized that according to that conclusion and the Rules of Procedure, the only question was asked by fellow Malkić, who had not yet come out for a pay phone, in accordance with Rule 124. If it is not stated on the basis of a valid or oral response on Monday, then it is expected that, orally at the House's session, an answer will be given to the extent possible, with your Rules of Procedure, too, 127, or 128, that a written question, given in writing, may be explained. After being delivered in writing to the chair of the Council of Ministers, or to the Council of Ministers, so that we can prepare in good time, so that for your questions, which we have now received, we have not had time to prepare. However, I will not be denied these questions just for a short time, which is an obligation that if these questions are now being formulated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that we, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, also respond, unless the MPs are satisfied with what I am about to say, because I have no intention of speaking for more than three minutes on each issue, because the Rules of Procedure asks me to speak for three minutes, after the explanation takes three minutes and to give the answer, maximum on page A-4, which we will do for each of these questions, when delivered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The first question from Mr. Brk was. Is there anyone in this country who can give an answer after when there will be gas? I can only tell you the short answer would be there and if needed further answer, we can, with the answer there, give a very precise answer to what the Council of Ministers has done, or what has done to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, because it does so in full co-operation with entity authorities, since the Federation's entity authorities are in a specific case, given the transport of gas and that there are some unresolved relations, which concern some debtors from RS, are true to a small extent, working in full co-operation with Prime Minister Ivanic with Prime Minister Behmen, with the greatest part of the responsibility of the Federation Prime Minister and the competent federal authorities. We will inform you of this, after the answer, a brief answer to your question there, and on page A-4 we will provide an answer regarding entity authorities, and we will give you an answer in writing what the Council of Ministers has done in terms of Ministers of Foreign Trade and Ministry of Foreign Trade. As for the second question of Aluminijum, it is, I will just say here, that it is true that the country is in a state of poverty as Mr Titan said and I want very clearly and unequivocally to say that we will forward your question to the Federation government, which is most directly involved in these activities. Most of your questions concern the activities of the Federation government. I can only tell you that at the capacity of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, at the invitation of Chancellor Šreder, I stayed in 8 visits to Germany and that the first meeting I had there was a meeting with the representatives of dajni... who are a strategic partner who has invested in Aluminium so far. Preparations for this meeting, which I can inform you more in a period of more than three minutes and I think it would be good to have a competent Commission on Economic Development, if you consider any other body that we can discuss on this subject, and it would be good to engage in the preparation of the activities, given that... the delegation plans to come early this month, with the help of our embassy in Germany in full coordination with the federal government and that one principle agreement has been reached, and I think I can say this here with great satisfaction between President Daenel-Kryser and our representatives to try to create a whole programme of activities, in which one strategic partner such as Dajgnel... which represents one of the biggest corporations of world expressions has a great interest in being present in BiH and in the framework of aluminium and in many broader economic activities, and this is one project that is ahead of us and which we are going to devote full seriousness as in the very Aluminijum problem. If I recall correctly, I apologize to the third question is, the question that concerned the case of the processing of a number of people in Zeppec. I can say it's not in the power of the Council of Ministers. However, I am prepared and perfectly natural that we will forward your question to the relevant institutions and your question obliges us as the Council of Ministers to engage in coordinating appropriate activities so that you get a better answer. As a man, I find it totally unacceptable to have our MP, to run any process against him, which is not in line with the fact that it is an MP who is protected by immunity, and I think we expect this from Parliament's leadership to be included accordingly. We, as the Council of Ministers, did not want to involve ourselves in this, because we felt that it was an MP, an MP, and it was not correct that we were involved without coordination with you, but we are prepared to engage in the resolution of the specific status of our MP, which I consider once again as a man something that should not have been done and I think that is why someone should be held accountable. How it came to pass that an MP who has parliamentary immunity had to be knocked on his door with a request for arrest. I find it absolutely inadmissible and I apologize for repeating this once again, this is my personal position, because we as the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, have no authority to do anything here, but I will personally and all do to the extent that we can put this thing right and that the trial in Žepč as well as any other trial in any other case, except for people who are eventually responsible for some activities, and in no way will be allowed to turn any trial into a single nation, regardless of who it is in any other case or in any other case, and here as politically responsible people, I repeat once again, I am coming out of the power of what we have, but I am obliged to say for this parliamentary talk and draw attention once again that we will do everything in our power and everything that we are empowered and everything that is not contrary to the Constitution and law. We'll do things that aren't directly imposed on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5120	I saw Mr. Brk. Let me just have one sentence. The apostle you spoke of, Mr. Chairman, of whom 9 questions were asked, is an MP of this house. He hasn't spoken to this home. He did not address the College, but be assured that the College, and I think I will have the support of all MPs, preserve the dignity and dignity of every MP and preserve the dignity and dignity of this home. All that needs to be done is that this institution affirms and affirms the position of MPs, of course, in accordance with the applicable regulations we will do. Word came from a colleague named Brka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5121	Very short. Dear Mr. Lagumdžija, I know you're a university professor. I respect that fact very much, and I understand when you speak to students in that way. We're MPs here, and we're all even here. I'm asking you in the future, and it's not your first time not teaching here as kids. I know why I asked such a question, and I know that this answer concerns every citizen in BiH, who has a connection to the need for gas, does not matter in which part of BiH. This concerns the citizens of Sarajevo in particular. Your answer is no answer, and in that way it cannot be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5122	Thank you very much. Do you want to answer or move on, Mr. Presiding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Thank you very much. Let's move on with the parliamentary questions. And his colleague, Spasojević, is a colleague of Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5123	Mr. Chairman, fellow ministers and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Presidency, I would like to ask you a question. Maybe this minister's advice doesn't have that authority, but I want to run something off the dead end. You, as you know, there is only Šećerana in BiH in Bijeljina. I want to ask a question. Is it possible to run it, or put it into work, because we all know that sugar is imported and BiH has enough orans to sow and produce sugar?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5124	I thank Ambassador Spasojević. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5125	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 127, I am asking for a part of the supplement when it comes to, and that is, since the truth is a media lynch and an attempt at Federation level. So from the institutions something that's not good for the business world, or for the business of Aluminijum, and my question in that part was, now I don't remember exactly, but it was in that direction. What will the Council of Ministers do to stop a negative trend, to protect Aluminijum in the business world. So what the Council of Ministers will do, since it also refers to the Federation government. I understand this part and I am pleased with what you have said so far and what is going to be done, but what will be done when it comes to our country to stop this negative moment, which certainly hurts one of the largest companies in BiH, which is Aluminium Mostar. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5126	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Is anyone else answering for word? MPs' questions. The word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5127	Mr Grabovac, in accordance with Article 127, which you have provided an additional question, I, in accordance with this and also the position of the 1st sentence before, answered in the same way. So, we will, within our jurisdiction and we have already spoken to you as I have said the appropriate meetings and the plan of the activities of the German economy representatives, specifically D... which has been present in these entire activities and in the next 15 days we expect to visit a high delegation... which will hold appropriate talks here with the competent foreign trade and economic relations ministry, with the relevant finance ministries and other ministries and coordinate their meeting with representatives of federal authorities, the competent power ministry, or all those who are from the World Bank and other international fins. The institution, since I believe there is no need for the Rules of Procedure, and in particular we do not need to go into details, I expect that we will go out with one much, much more quality solution in the economy of BiH and for the people who want to work here on one legal stability. So, on the question, will the Council of Ministers do something more concrete? It will not do anything more concrete in blocking – unblocking any account, because it is not in its jurisdiction and it is a matter of competent institutions which we will wrap up a proper conversation with the relevant representatives, based on your question that you have provided here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5128	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think we got the answer. I would also like to thank the members of the presidency, the chairman of Mr Križanović and Mr Belkić, given the obligations to leave this parliament. Thank you. Is there anyone else answering questions? We don't. So we end up with point 2. MPs' questions and answers. I would ask all members concerned with parliamentary questions that, in writing, in relation to what is not said and answered today, they should forward their answers to the MPs as soon as possible. Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the VII amendment to the BiH-US grant Treaty in the Reconstruction Financing Programme called the Business Development Programme can only be obtained in writing, as far as I know. The College agreed and removed any interference, in the sense that it had reached a consensus on this project "The Business Development Programme" and grants from the United States. 11 We can move to point 4. Ad.4. The Council of Ministers' request to consider the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in BiH - by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, namely, of the Council of Ministers, had several amendments to the text which was in the parliamentary procedure and in this context were considered necessary and necessary to mean that, given the new situation, the Council of Ministers was reintroduced by the Law under Article 104 of the procedure and simply with the amended text and amendments which, normally, are its own product, are simple and the efforts of the Council of Ministers. So here we have a request from the Council of Ministers to re-introduce the draft law on land use in BiH after an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Is there anyone on this? Here you go. To us. I'm closing the debate. We need to make a statement on this. Who is in order to introduce the Law on Free Zones in BiH, i.e. to adopt the procedure by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Representative of the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? - No one has any abstentions? Also no one abstentioned. So, a request from the Council of Ministers to introduce the Law on Free Zones, the Proposal for a Law on Free Zones in BiH, following an emergency procedure, into the procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from 31 present and voted 29. Thank you, so this request has been passed. Here's a colleague of Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5129	Thank you, colleague Avdić. We've reached point 5. Ad. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity transport – we came to a second reading We had additional consultations. There were three amendments. I would ask a representative of the Council of Ministers to plead if he has a need. Here you go, colleague Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5130	Dear colleagues, in agreement with the President of the Commission with traffic and communication, I have been my amendments to the first reading, proposed for first reading, saying they were automatically proposed by those who were not adopted by the readers for second reading. I've arranged it with Mr. Chairman of the Commission and I think my amendments should be here in procedure today. I have them on me, and you probably have them from the first reading. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5131	Thank you. All amendments to the Rules of Procedure will be in the process. Gosodine Malkić, allow me some information. Your amendments proposed by the Commission, which is the Commission, are an integral part of this bill, that is not disputed. Amendments not accepted, you were able to renew those amendments. It's from the Service that you didn't do it. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5132	I also said on the committee, I think Miss Branka was present. I also said that amendments not accepted by the Commission automatically remain as amendments for a second reading and I asked the chairman to organise a session of the Commission, in order to possibly be at the Commission's hearing. However, he did not do so, and I felt that they were, perhaps, the way they went when I delivered them to him that they were still in the procedure and that they could be considered today.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5133	Thank you, colleague Malkić. Let me just remind you of the Rules of Procedure. I think the situation is quite clear. According to Article 94(2). poslanik and clubs of Members may propose written amendments which they wish to defend at the plenary stage once they have not been successfully defended in the Commission. We do not have your written submission to appeal to Article 94(2). That's the problem. We just don't have it we didn't get it and according to the Rules of Procedure your amendments weren't renewed within 48 hours before the House session. If it's a failure, the breach isn't up to us. It may be up to you, or to the President of the Commission. It's just that I want to find out it's not a failure at the College of the House of Representatives or at the Office of the House of Representatives, and we only have three amendments in play. I give my word to Minister Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5134	Madam Chairman, gentlemen Members of Parliament, fellow ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications has received these amendments and has come out on these amendments. However, there was no time to take a position on the Council of Ministers on this matter. The Working Party which has prepared the laws and working group considers these requirements, i.e. the proposed amendments, acceptable because they do not change the essence of the law and they are on the trail of the proposed text of the law. Therefore, the working group that prepared this law has been consulted and they have accepted these three amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5135	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Is anyone else answering for a word? I'm undermining, it's a second reading. Mr. Malkić, do you have anything new or do you want to explain to us about what you've already said? I beg you, don't be mad at me for watching the session closely. I know you're embarrassed that your amendments haven't been returned, but it's not our fault, we all have. It is the amendments that have been renewed according to the Rules of Procedure. You know that those amendments that are not accepted by the Commission, or amendments that are opposed to the amendments accepted by the Commission can be tabled. The Rules of Procedure are fully satisfied here, the Rules of Procedure have been respected and these amendments are now the House of Representatives, and then, of course, you know that according to the procedure, if amendments are there that the Council of Ministers can and should be made known about them. Whether or not she accepts it to facilitate the work of the House of Representatives, or the Ministry of Resort. Are you satisfied with the answer, Mr. Malkić? Thank you very much. Let's move on. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Malkić. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The tone requires you to go out for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5136	If, on Wednesday, the amendment of 16.7.2001, signed by Mr. Željko Bilbija. Then I have an objection to those amendments. You didn't say who they were, or I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5137	Malkić, you have the right to participate in an amendment debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5138	Here it is proposed that an international traffic license be issued by the entity ministry. I believe, given that the responsibility of the BiH state for economic relations and international relations, that this is absolutely in the BiH state's authority and does not have to, meaning that what is stated in the explanation is that technical checks and the rest should be exported to Sarajevo and done. This may, if it is in Banja Luka and Zvornik and Bijeljina, but that the terms and conditions defined in Amendment II are not appropriate and I have an objection to that. This has killed my amendments that have been here and that are... the law—the law rather than the transfer of some ingenuities, it's according to the Constitution that someone has no right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5139	Amendment Proposer Mr. Željko Bilbija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5140	I want a little bit so that this amendment doesn't create a misunderstanding. Since most of these technical checks, which must indeed meet European standards, from the length of the technical examination, to the measuring device to the measuring device, to the engine power measurement device at the edge of the wheels, that someone who takes a freight vehicle or bus to Germany tomorrow comes to a certain rise and cannot carry out their own admission task. Those technical checks are already working. Here's the proposal, based on that license not to make people three times a year, since there's already a license, so with all that I come to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and you get what's needed and what's recognised in international road traffic. I don't think that's a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5141	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? We heard the explanations. Since no one's answering for a word, we need to make a statement about the amendments. I'll do it again, I guess you have it on the table, but I'll do it again. 14 The Amendment and I will read the amendment of course. The text of the proposal of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina remains in Article 4(7). Who's in favour of the proposed amendment? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? – 2 Of the 33 present 26 for – versus 5 – abstention 2. I'd like to make a statement on the entities. Who is from the RS for the proposed amendment? Thank you very much. I would like MPs from the Federation of BiH to make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed amendment? From the Federation of BiH 16 MPs for. From RS 10 MPs to. I find that the amendment has been adopted. Amendment II to Amendment III of the Commission shall be amended and read. You can't, we're in the voting process and the debate is over. It's over. We're in the voting process, and we don't have a debate. The debate is over, which you didn't. There's no debate, we'll just hear you and we'll move on to the voting process, because we've started this process we can't go back. You can vote yes or no, but the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5142	Here are the amendments proposed by the Commission and adopted by this House in its first reading. This is in Article 4(7), which reads: “The licence is the floor which confirms to the domestic carrier the ability to carry out certain public road transport activities, from the point of view of the technical and technological and financial first-end aspect of providing services to carriers. We've accepted the proposed solution. Now in Article 4(7) of the new amendment, the text of the proposal, the text of the proposal of the Council of Ministers is accepted, and we have adopted this amendment by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5143	That's what's killing that amendment. It's all Mr. Malkić's fault. We're doing everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5144	That's why we accepted it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5145	Rules of Procedure, we respect the Rules of Procedure. How the MPs will vote, please. How the MPs will vote is up to them. Everyone's got, like, every single person's voice. We respect the rules of procedure, we move on. 15 Article 5(2) also states: “The transport licence referred to in Article 1(1) shall be issued by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, in the following text by the Ministry, on the basis of the licence issued by the Ministry of Entity, provided that the domestic carrier fulfils, among other things, the conditions of European regulations as regards: 1st Technical Equipment 2rd Professional Skills 3rd Financial Capabilities which do not include the value of the underlying assets 4. In point 4. Behind the ministry's words, the words "intestinal" that must be in line with the regulation, I stress, the ministry's minister, in the text of the minister, which is the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I would not comment clearly that it was not touched in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs that it was what was responsible. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Of the 33 MPs 21 for – versus 8 – abstentioned 4. We're going to an entity vote. Who is from the Federation of BiH for the proposed amendment? Who is from the RS from the MP for the proposed amendment? I find that 12 MPs from the Federation of BiH voted in favour of -- from RS 8 -- the amendment was adopted. Amendment III Amendment 17. The Commission shall be deleted and the text of the proposal of the Council of Ministers shall remain. Who's up for the amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Of the 33 MPs – 26 for – against 4 – abstention 3. We have to go to an entity vote. Who is from the RS for the proposed amendment? Which one is the Federation of BiH MP for the proposed amendment? 16 MPs from the Federation for – from RS 9. I find that the amendment has been adopted. Gentlemen, after the vote on amendments, we move to a vote on the law. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport. Who is one of the MPs for the adoption of the proposed law? Who's against it? - No one's against it. Who's restrained? - 1 MP does not need an entity vote. There's no need. Of the 33 MPs present, 32 MPs voted in favour – he was abstention 1. There's no need for an entity vote. Gentlemen, I find that the House of Representatives has passed the Law on international and inter-entity road transport. Let's move on. 16 Ad.6. The draft law on the BiH citizens' ID card – first reading Just to remind you, the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the Bill proposal, I apologize, the Constitutional and Legal Commission is responsible. She delivered her opinion on 6 September 2001 and on 11 October 2001. I am opening a debate under Article 95(1). Rules of Procedure, so on principles. Here's who's answering for the word. Does the Resort Minister want to address the House of Representatives? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5146	Dear gentlemen, the law package that lies before you today is, long in the process, before the Council of Ministers and has long passed the time to agree on this package of laws, which is now proposed for first reading in the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. You have four bill proposals here today, the fifth law is back from this package to the Proposer to do certain things. I hope that in the course of the day, together with the Commission, we will seek to reach a compromise and, possibly, put this fifth law from this set into parliamentary procedure before the House of Representatives. About the importance of this project and this legal project, which makes up this CIPS project, has been spent a lot of words. I think that the time has finally come and that the circumstances have matured and that appropriate compromises have been reached in Bosnia and Herzegovina from all relevant political parties, parties, bearers of functions, etc. that this package of laws and a complete CIPS project goes into one normal procedure and as soon as we get to BiH to this package of measures and that it could be classified, or that a project that follows this set of laws could be implemented, which you should, eventually, adopt. A lot of words have been spent on importance, perhaps too strong words, but after 9/11, we all understand that, especially in BiH, we need to take more care of identification documents, which are practically well regulated by this set of laws. There have been challenges to the whole project, there have been good amendments, good proposals to improve the original text of the law. One part of it is appreciated. Certain compromises have been reached, I must tell you, but these compromises, which have been reached, I don't think it goes to the harm of the proposed text of the law, but they are certain, I would say, respected certain remarks, respecting our one reality, in which we are in BiH, which is good to try to bring the package, without imposing by the High Representative, because I think we have moved to this stage to take the gradual fate of BiH and BiH citizens into our own hands, and we will best show it, if, here and bring a very significant set of laws. Therefore, since this is the first reading, I think it would be good, to accept this one bill proposed to you at first reading, and in the second reading, we will talk about all these details, which have also been tabled amendments to which the Council of Ministers and other relevant factors in BiH, namely those of BiH authorities in parties, etc. achieved and found a compromise solution. Not to waste a lot of words, this project is primarily a project, which is important for BiH citizens and we must take care of it when we declare that we always have that in mind, that we are not passing this law because of the 17 international communities and because of us sitting here, but this package of laws is primarily in the interest of the citizens of BiH. So I suggest that this package of laws, I would not report by each law individually, but these four that are now on the agenda that, after considering, we accept and refer these laws to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5147	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We'll continue the debate, please. I'm undermining Article 95(1). Rules of Procedure. First reading. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5148	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I absolutely support the approach that an extremely important matter should be regulated in an acceptable way, because the uniform process of creating a new BiH was such that it was not possible to have this important matter arranged and the need for this area, which had large gaps, was regulated in an acceptable way. It is clear now to all, that there have been failures due to the disorder, which put BiH on the pillars of the international press. With the right, to the extent that, in which there is no, there remains an assessment and analysis that needs to be done in any case. But the fact is that in such an important business, when we pass these laws, we must respect the internal legislation, under the number one Constitution of BiH, as a basic document, without which we can go beyond the one that motivated us to pass these laws. Therefore, gentlemen, I support the principle that this area or these areas are being arranged. I support the principle that the personal card law is passed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that there are records offices and data exchanges, because it is unacceptable that we still have unregulated relations at the residence and residence, that we do not have valid single parent numbers, which are extremely important for the identification of the person, but, gentlemen, I do not notice several important principles that are necessary for the regulation of this matter. So I propose that in the text of the law that we do not list them, because we are now discussing principles rather than members, we are not discussing any amendments, but simply about members, principles that as more legal models channel the text of the law. So, in the text of the CIPS law, respect the following principles, other than those I have spoken of and supported, should therefore also respect the constitutional provisions on language and letter. Secondly, the text on the documents will respect Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional structure. Here, first of all, I'm thinking of Article 1. The Constitution. Thirdly, the second-degree body, in the case of a dispute, and in relation to the rights of the applicant, will be the competent authorities of the entity and the fourth principle of all suspected records must be kept at the level of the entity and these records will, as the dubious ones, be made up of records at BiH level. So this is, why like this and why these principles. First of all, we regulate relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, which is complex, which is made up of two entities, we respect the peoples and their rights, language and letter, we respect the Constitution and its provision of the first member, we respect the authorities that must have jurisdiction, and we will be able to show concretely to the offender, if we are precise and determine jurisdiction. And the transparency of these records must also be such that 18 allows from local to state control, because simply different will arise problems like those from the immediate past. So many gentlemen, and I want this House to be determined according to the additional principles that I have read here, and I am handing them over to the chairman and asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5149	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Bjelobrk Belabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5150	I appreciate the opinion of all those who, with positive energy, are entering the process of regulating the Bosnian hergic registration when it comes to personal data and their protection and all other forms of public life use. I also want the next part of the Council of Ministers' and this Parliament's activities to be present, incontrovertantly to say, further concern about the principles, as my colleague Banjac here said, but first, let's do one, in my court, a much more important assessment. I will be free to paraphrase two key objectives, unlike experts in this area, from the point of view of the use of such registries. One is for inside Bosnia and Herzegovina and one is for external use and I assume that all of us who use the Syntagma on September 11th have everyone, first of all, the problem of change that is necessary in this country and in the world when it comes to the experience of 9/11. On the other hand, any debate on the possible redistribution of rights is becoming, I say, very questionable if we want to allow a far greater transit of BiH citizens based, among other things, on such establishment of records and follow-up control. I therefore advocate that the central principle, which should be pursued, is, above all, that we have an effective system that will allow every legal citizen of BiH to realise all rights in the country but also abroad, compatible with the rules of play built in the international community. This seems to me to be a far older problem than internal redistribution, regardless of whether it was entities, municipalities, cantons or something, and, of course, I don't ignore existing constitutional assumptions, but I don't think there should be a problem here in order of analysis and synthesis. So, I advocate finally that the central princes be central records, significantly proportionate to the requirements of international public transport and in this sense compliance with the principles of the internal organisation of the BiH state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5151	Thank you very much. A fellow MP, Damir Mašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5152	The esteemed chairman, respected MPs, the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the international community and respected media, I would only ask, before we enter out on the proposal of my fellow Banjac that, if possible, it means giving his position to the Council of Ministers, i.e. who is the proposer of this law to hear their position before we make a statement about the proposal of a fellow Banjac. That's it. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5153	Mr. Banjac, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5154	I do not dispute the right to think and express my opinion, but I do dispute the right to do so contrary to the Rules of Procedure. The Council of Ministers, it's not an organ that can give the final court, it's us. They're the committees in charge. Proposer, he can take part in the debate, like any other and I do not dispute his right, but I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5155	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5156	Mr. Chairman, we welcome that how the efforts of the Council of Europe, which, however, put this set of CIPS laws on the debate and in the regular procedure. We also support that this matter is very important to regulate the constitutionally established way, therefore, in the only possible way and as a contribution to the Party of Democratic Action's Club, we advocate that the principles on which the CIPS laws rest are in line with European standards with our ongoing efforts and aspirations that we want to enter eu-Atlantic integration. So in front of the club, I've made it clear, that we want to be at BiH level, really be an effective and unique system, a regulated system, which can work, and that's the principle that we're going to stand for, and we're going to insist on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5157	Thank you, fellow Borić. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5158	Dear guests, I would also like to express my position on these principles. I think this principle of whether external or internal use is more dominant, I don't think it comes under question at all, because this is, first of all, a document for internal use. We are, unfortunately, in a country whose passport we are not in a situation to get visas for a large number of countries, and that our ID card will be able to serve internationally, to say traffic, is an illusion. We'll be able to discuss that, unfortunately, in ten years. Let's just see what that means. I read in preparation some, unfortunately and OHR comments, which I really can't support, because this is, here I am, here I'm going to show my ID card which is with Cyrillic and the other day I was quite regular through Croatia and the gentleman in customs examined it, read it and there was no problem. I think for external use, a passport should be used first. On the other hand, I am absolutely so that these laws are passed. I think it's just a matter of finding a little goodwill right now. It seems to me that there are attempts, unfortunately, to get through this law, so to speak, beneath the grain some things that are not necessary to spend and that's not fair. I'd just like to come back now, there was no time when we talked about the VII amendment, about something that really, really got me in the eye. That amendment was made here in English and Bosnian. Look, I didn't want to comment, because we're not in a situation right now, so we can end up looking at our teeth, but, really, there's gonna be a lot more of this. We need to find a solution that will satisfy 20 equalitys of all three languages. Why isn't it one of these other two languages now, and yet who's crazy about giving money and writing a document in three languages, but let this be a chance to find a solution. Secondly, the second amendment was signed there by the Prime Minister of BiH. That's not who signed it, is with someone he doesn't have, because it's the Council of Ministers. So let's just take a little bit of simple care of these things, because this, however, stings. I must say here that my position is that these principles that Mr. Banjac has spoken of are exactly the principles that I, through the amendments, put on behalf of our club, are practically identical and I think it would be good to, however, find a way to find a compromise solution in the end, that these principles that are truly important and respected, because I must say that as a citizen of the RS, which, in my opinion, I have already said from this speaker, Republika Srpska will exist only if BiH is, and my deep position is that BiH will exist only if it is RS. This is a state with two equal entities and three equal nations. I'm afraid some suggestions to find a rotten solution compromised, that someone can and someone can't have entity markings aren't good. The other day I had a chance to see a driver's license from the U.S. Also, the identification card and no one cares that the big letters upstairs write the name of the federal unit of the United States from which the carrier comes. If that doesn't bother in a large, strongest country in the world, why would it bother a small BiH, and believe me, I'm represented and one group of voters. We were talking here, that we're bringing this in for the citizens, actually. I'm afraid that tomorrow the situation, in which we're going to impose a group of citizens, or allow the situation to choose something, and before that, it's said to her that something can deprive it of some rights, is incomprehensible to me. It's like a while back 50 years ago, and I don't think any of us need it today. These documents, right now, have the task of putting us in Europe, of making us equal to others, I think we can find a solution with little goodwill. I come from Banja Luka, you know my performances so far, and I'm afraid some of them are just trying to play one unfair game, and I'd call here publicly some of the RS political leaders who seem to be playing a two-faced game, one story they tell in Banja Luka, the other at some other meetings, the third in front of the international community. So I will ask that before approaching that second round of reading, some of them publicly plead, because they can no longer cheat on us MPs or our public, they must use their own hands to catch a snake. I was talking to the Foreign Affairs Commission yesterday, and it's time to open the cards. Are we going to the Council of Europe or not? I read the other day that one of the conditions when we enter the Council of Europe will remain there as a common army, and I have had the opportunity for people who make big stories to hide it from the people. That's what the people need to know. I am so that these, perhaps days, not to say Sunday put everything that is a condition for entering and staying in the Council of Europe here, that we are dealing with public debates with citizens and going in the right direction. It is known that Europe is a very nice train, comfortable, but it looks for certain conditions and we won't be able to play like this anymore, we're a little bit out of line. So I would like to send this message, so that we can all find enough understanding in ourselves, that it is very important that these documents be adopted, because it is significant, first of all, for Bosnia and Herzegovina, its international reputation, but I ask you not to try to play any mean game under the table. These questions are too important. I must tell you that as a citizen of BiH and RS as an MP, who swore here, but swore, means 21 BiH and the RS cannot accept that on my personal map, with the name of my country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not have the name of my entity Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5159	Thank you, Mr. Lolić. Who else is answering for a word? Mr. Sead Avdić, vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5160	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected guests, Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibility as states, objectively in the concept of the anti-terrorist coalition, is also the obligation and necessity to adopt these laws, which define citizens' ID cards, central data exchange records, etc. It is the passage of a specific, specific and unique information system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the cold logic of the computer, politics has no place. So it's about, objectively data, which, just from the absecction of protection and everything else, are embedded in a single information system like this. So it's an irrelevant question. Where will be the central database, conditionally spoken or central computer, etc. The information system consists here of four levels. The municipality, i.e. the municipality, canton, or region, entities and states of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I repeat once again, the laws only treat, so, about centrified records and data exchange, means data exchange. So, the exchange of information. So there's no way that one level, entity or region, or canton, some data is kept to itself and used for itself on behalf of some political goals, etc. So, absolutely irrelevant, uniquely this discussion, these some additional requirements, from the aspect of the information system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Guys, it's a computer system decentralised. The information hierarchy is quite clear, so there's no possibility there. Computers communicate between themselves in both directions in one direction and in another, so there is no way that someone can use data for some purposes that are only well known to him or simply to some political goals. So it's an absolute democratisation system and a decentralised multi-level system, and there's no way that one level uses some information that belongs to it alone. So this is the basic system from the aspect of communication and information hierarchy. So, they're not at all controversial these four laws, and I suggest that we actually adopt these principles in the first reading and allow through the second reading, simply so that Bosnia and Herzegovina really gets this kind of well-organized, well-organized system. We have provided funds for the establishment of this system, computer resources and in this context, absolutely, so once again I repeat the system is decentralised character, open, communicative and in this context, there is no danger of any, uniform abuse of information, data or anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5161	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Here you go, fellow Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5162	Dear colleagues, indeed these laws, which are on the agenda of the package, I think they are necessary, we are all aware of that. But I can't help but think that I couldn't have been 22 to not come out and not say my personal opinion about Mr. Lolić's discussion and Mr. Banjac. I do not see any reason that any BiH citizen, any member of any people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, is in one way threatened or damaged, if we have a common, unique ID card. I just don't understand it. Someone should explain to me where someone's at risk, if there's anything different. Why is it different? If we belong to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we all have the same interest. A moment ago, Mr. Lolić said, "We may be in Europe in ten years." Let's do it here so we can go to Europe before. Before we go over things that are logical in every normal state. It's logical that people in one country have a unique ID card. It's a logical thing. It's wrong to set an example here of IDs, U.S. documents. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a federal state, I'm sorry. It's not two federal units, it's two entities, and let's not confuse the concepts. For me, the logical value is that the citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I and anyone sitting here in this home, any rate of BiH, has a unique ID card. I don't see that that's how I'm threatened by someone else or anyone else. It's a very simple thing and I don't think there's any point in defending anything that's impossible to defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5163	I see who answered the word, but the replica of Mr. Banjac, so Mr. Mijatović after Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5164	I wouldn't have replicated it if it hadn't been for trying to bend what I said. Why? I have not told any of my gestures that I do not accept and that I do not consider these documents necessary at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, people in communication can be misunderstood and that is natural. That way I don't understand the people who bring the Constitution, so they break it right away. I didn't create the Constitution. If we're thinking of something else, then we need to change the laws that regulate that area. In this case, it's the Constitution. I'm not asking for anything else, but to acknowledge the honourable Mr. MP that level of statehood of the entity guaranteed by the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Nothing beyond that, and I can't think of anything else to look for. Is that enough for me and you too? That's another question now. We're going to have to deal with any upgrades. This time we're talking about a document derived from a law document that's worth it. I just want them to respect and respect each other. Nothing beyond that. I don't see any reason to think of myself as threatened if they were respected, the only reason I could consider myself threatened is if they were disrespected and I don't see any reason why we, who are building a new democratic BiH, not the one who was, who is gone, can no longer appear. This one was created by Bosnia and Herzegovina in Dayton, a deal, unfortunately, after the war. It could've been without it, it could've been without the war, and it should've been without the war. The accident must not happen again, and we who are here must do everything we can to never again in these places to see the accident of the type of person she was or the milder, much less, never again would I want to, and all I want to do from myself is, my contribution to never happening again and calling on all those who can help to arrange Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it suits its peoples and citizens. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5165	Thank you. Is it a replica or is it a word? If it's a replica. I ask the MPs to sit in their MPs' clubs. I'm very worried, because I don't know which MP is sitting in which club anymore. Mr. brkati, are you staying at the request for a replica or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5166	I'll be real quick. I agree, Mr. Banjac, with everything you've said, but there's one thing I want to say, I believe Mr. Banjac will accept. In fact, the fact is that what he says we have such a constitution and must be respected. I'm in favor of the Constitution. That's right. But we also know that this constitution of ours, which was made in unfortunate circumstances, was carried out as it was unfortunately carried out, has very much inadequacy. I'm just Mr. Banjac, because we're trying to solve these shortcomings as soon as possible, not to have that constitution as a brake. That is, I am here so that if we are to sit here for days and nights and negotiate and come to a common conclusion that will benefit all BiH citizens. I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5167	Maybe that's the second time. [[speaks from the site]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5168	Be careful if we keep leaving Mr. Banjac for a second time. If we keep leaving every problem for the second time, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will get bored with it once again. He can't keep doing it another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5169	You'll get the word, Mr. Banjac. My request, that we keep an eye on the address of the MPs in the future. I use official address, we're obliged to officially address each other and ask that we do so in the future. I think you understand what I'm saying. Mr. Banjac picked up the phone. You have a word. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. I didn't look back on your discussion. You got it all wrong. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5170	Sir, Ambassador, brkati was only going to tell you the following. It's not the second time, it's the second way to solve this problem. We can't solve the problem of the Constitution by breaking it. I do not dispute that every question can be opened, this is democratic to open up every issue in a decent, cultural, civilized way. But there can't be access to a banging thing if it's above something that's... So these documents that we're talking about and the laws, they come from the Constitution. I accept your approach that this problem should be dealt with in order. But if the Constitution is what it is, and I respect it, and I think it should be respected, let's respect it until it's over until we change it. When we change it, we do it accordingly. It's not a good way to break your own laws. It's the best way to go astray. That's all I meant to say, nothing else. After all, I can tell you that we can have a nice conversation and that I do it whenever I need to.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5171	I have to intervene. I'm glad the MPs are drinking coffee together, but I'm asking you to keep an eye on me, I'm asking my fellow Bjelobrk not to lose, we're running out of time on the coffee deal, and now I'm going to be direct, since mine, my suggestion was that MPs be called you and not you. That was my suggestion. Many of us are on you, but not at the session. Don't take this the wrong way, please, Mr. Brk, and my colleague Banjac thought he was referring to him. So, I'm sorry to say this, but I had to say after your dialogue and call for coffee. If you agree, we'll join you for coffee. Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Mirko Mijatović. You're giving up the replica. Thank you very much. Mr. Franjo Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5172	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first to suggest that we speak with the vote, because this is about first reading. The amendments will come clearly for consideration, they should come. Here are the proposed additional principles, however, for the proposal of these principles and the rest certainly need more arguments, because what I have heard is both denied and the Constitution and the second, third, I am not a conviction of that. On the other hand, I'd like to ask my colleague Lolić and my Koleg, Banjac, etc. Why would I, if I accepted it as Franjo of the Republic of Slovenia, a Hrvat in an unequal position, if they had adopted it, because it would have written in Cyrillic my personal documents and secondly, and thirdly, surely my colleagues did not advocate it. They're arguing, I guess we're even, like citizens. My parents moved to that area in 1465 in the village of Ivanska, which is now missing. I don't have a birthplace. There's a P... you see all sorts of things. Why don't you just say it? So, come back to be the village of Ivanska. Write to me don't write me a Latin, I'll be there to be, if it's technically okay, etc. Entity and so on. Don't get over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5173	Is anyone else answering for word? Replica Lolić Branislav.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5174	First of all, my colleague Franja probably didn't get me. One of the principles and my amendments is just to be trilingual. We're just asking for the name to be written both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities and the Latin and Cyrillic, and I put in the amendment there on behalf of the club that the name, i.e. the name is written either in Latin or Cyrillic, as the citizen wishes. But here I have to say this time, to the right solution I'm sure we'll come to a solution. We'll come to a solution by giving in. I will withdraw this amendment at this moment and I think it is clear that the name of the citizen himself can be written only in Latin, because it is possible, however, to move to Croatia or Serbia and to me, it is important that we in these two countries, which our neighbours can cross, and Slovenia 25 already does not have a ID card. I hope everything was different. So that's where I support you. Secondly, Mr. Franjo, I'm very happy that when you left, I wasn't in politics. Rest assured, as long as I'm in politics, no one will be less valuable, and I would ask here to mention someone we never mention, which is the fourth. There are a lot of citizens here who feel Yugoslav, because from mixed marriages, they're not thought of in this country, and some of them asked me to talk about them a little bit, but then. I think you should give that criticism to the right address. I cannot understand why Republika Srpska is late for this implementation of the constitution of the people. However, I am not an MP there, but here, but I will do everything to honor it, because I am absolutely for two equal multiethnic entities. But those equals know how they can be. And to Mr. Brk, let me just say, I'm really glad we got into this situation, so we can talk this nice. I just think, I totally agree with you, that a solution should be sought. I'm just appealing to all of us, so we're not looking for a solution in a hurry. These are crucial, though, things, but what you said for 3-4 days is a solution, so maybe that's a solution and that these laws are adopted that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5175	Thank you. Mr. Kulenović Salih.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5176	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here's a brief on this package of laws I'd say. In any case, I share my opinion that this package of laws should be adopted as soon as possible. We heard today and discussed principles. All these principles are less in the spirit of the Constitution and they, many of them, are quite logical. I would warn and here I am now in favour here in this place that, however, these principles are in the spirit of European standards and let us not advocate some of the principles that will interfere with our citizen abroad, when it comes to these documents and the adoption of these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5177	My colleague Mehtić Halil.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5178	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, I don't think there's much to spend on how necessary these laws are to this day's order. In any case, we must bear in mind the fact that the international organisations that are here and are quite expensive are paid in the capacity to establish some normal relations between the peoples, among the citizens of BiH, who have until recently been in a very difficult war to say so. According to the results of their work so far, we could not say that these international organisations are in the role of any nation, or that they are biased in favour of another nation. 26 If one of these international organisations in this case OHR insists on a personal card without the entity's name, then it should be a clear sign to all of us in the House of Representatives that it is something that will make us more easily involved in these European integrations. The very fact that they insist on an entity-free ID card suggests that the identity card that we would eventually have with entities is not according to European standards and it seems to me that in many things we want to be the exceptions and even in this matter. We should make sure we don't make exceptions. I would join Mr. Brk's constitution, which says that, a personal card with a unique name, so without an entity, it will not endanger or damage any citizen in BiH, so to any people it belonged to. And, my last finding, that is, is an objection to Mr Lolić's exposure to the existence of BiH with the existence of RS. Mr. Lolić must know that BiH existed for hundreds of years before RS and if God thinks it will exist in the future or with or without RS, we will see if God does.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5179	Thank you. I beg you, please. I have to intervene as chairman. I implore you, my fellow Members and all other MPs, that when you speak at the pay phone, do not do anything to question the order and conduct of the session. That's my request to you. You are obliged to refrain from obeying the Constitution. This applies to you and to all the other messengers. Who else answers for the word on this point? Comrade Tošić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5180	Mr. President, fellow MPs, I'm sorry, but right now I think... the president.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5181	Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5182	Okay, I wanted to give you a little promotion, you want to be the first among the equals.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5183	It's Tasko, we're all equal, and we're all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5184	I would just like to replicate a colleague who has now questioned the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina again and I cannot understand what is wanted when someone wants to say whether there is or does not exist a Republika Srpska or more specifically. Is Bosnia and Herzegovina a specific state? They even said we wouldn't call it a state, which is composed of two equal entities of the RS and the Federation, and I don't know why we keep trying to deny it. Now I'm going to say why we insist on these principles. In the Constitution, a Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen enjoys the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Article 1st paragraph 7.e. Any entity can issue passports of Bosnia and Herzegovina to its citizens as defined by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it can... to a citizen who has not issued a passport of 27 of the entities. There will be a central record of all passports issued by entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, by the Dayton Constitution, or by the Constitution... The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina has only given this responsibility to Bosnia and Herzegovina. It stands in Articles 2 and 3 which are the competences and relationship between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities and are precisely listed, the competencies of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then stands under the authority of the entities. (e) entities will meet all the conditions for legal certainty and protection of persons under their jurisdiction, the maintenance of civil institutions for the application of legal provisions, which will operate in accordance with internationally recognised standards, respecting internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms under Article 2 of this Constitution, and taking other appropriate measures. Someone here to say what the RS entity at this point has violated what was required of it by all international firsts and when we talk about human freedoms and rights? For these reasons, it means what my colleagues and Mr. Banjac are from Republika Srpska and Mr. Lolić I think is all, the sole basis in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I don't see why we would try to have a small one here today, so to speak, we bring in a document that is very important and that will be universal and whether it still writes Republika Srpska, I don't know why it would endanger anyone, if it doesn't want to destroy this concept of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it's another thing. You need to say it out loud here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5185	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. Who else answered the word? Here you go, colleague Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5186	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, gentlemen of the proposer of these laws, my move is intended to try to create conditions for these four very important laws, however, to be passed. Which means that in our first reading, we do not open up some of the rstms contained in the amendments, which fellow MPs have proposed. So, I'm quite free to decide which of the amendments I'm going to be and which I won't be, and I'm going to say right now that I'm going to support some when I vote... reading because it's my right. What I find significant at this moment important for this, for the environment in which this set of laws should be passed. I think that the proposer should explain beyond reason the reasons for the adoption of the law. Please, if we're only looking for reasons for law-making in the fight against anti-terrorism, then we're not anymore, then we're the result against terrorism, then we're not doing anything about it. We need to establish a system in which they will be, so sure you understand me in terms of the security of the state and of the citizens and of normal its integration and its functioning in the world of European, democratic states and democracy in the world at all. So this argument needs to be made wider. It's not just the current moment. It's the need for one state to have one central record. She can't simply solve her functions without these four laws. That's the key question. And perhaps what happened in the immediate past has only accelerated the requirements for the adoption of these laws, but it is by no means a reason, or a fundamental argument. So I support the principle of understanding the intention, that these four laws are obtained as a perspective, as something that every normal state needs. That's one note. Secondly, for me in everything here is a central record. Central records, as a sufficiently flexible system, open to free communication and 28 use of data by competent institutions and with sufficient fuses, in the case of security, or protection against possible abuses in the use of data. That's the key question. So that record needs to secure that function. If she, the model offered it ensures I support him. The next thing I know as a principle, it's that one state, or question. What it means is unique. We never sat down to arrange the content of some terms. I believe that the BiH state should have a unique form. It's irrefutable. A unique pattern and form and color and content. What's that form supposed to contain, let's talk. At this point, the pattern is important. The form is important, and let's talk about the contents and these shades, what it can or should contain. And finally, I want to tell you one of my own experiences, which will be my commitment to the amendments and understanding of these unique documents, which is that in some very democratic countries in the world, the only basic data is the unique home number of citizens. Only this picture cannot be changed, or another person put under that number on the document, and the name and other citizens can write whatever they want and whatever they want. Because the unique number of citizens in one secure record is enough for a full record of jobs. If that's where they find the data they need. Therefore, I am also experienced in order not to suffer from the fact that someone is prevented from being able to find in his personal documents the data he is related to, which he considers important for his democratic achievement in a given space and in BiH. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5187	Since no one's answering for a word, and we're a little tired, take five minutes. Thank you. We're moving on with the session. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5188	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, MPs, I would just like to try to give a few short answers to the questions, which are also asked here, without being pretensed to be complete and to answer all the questions, because that is not the point of today's discussion, since this is still the first reading. I want to do a few more things that we believe to be well known to the greatest number. The CIPS project, it's a miracle, as one stranger said yesterday, is that what you call the CIPS? Namely, the CIPS is English-made. S... which is no foreign word, but a Sis B system for the identification and protection of citizens, and it's a wonder that in fact for these three years, we haven't found a replacement for a abbreviations that is English and that here is three years. The reason for bringing all those who have been before. However, there is one reason that is an additional reason, which is the activities that are being conducted in the last, here is a little more than a month, that stem from our obligation to ourselves, our obligations stemming from some of our international eulogy, in the midst of the world's fight against, the 29-colloquian name terrorism. I can only say that the world is changing its laws, and even some European countries are now going to change their constitutions in some elements that will help improve the fight against terrorism. They're conscious of it and they're going organized. What I want to say is that, what is before us here, this package that is before you, in no form at all, in any form, in any alternative, it is in no way contrary to the Constitution of BiH, nor its entities, I want very clearly to underline, or even all the alternatives and everything it has given to the Council of Ministers before you, nothing is the opposite of that. I think the principles that have been chosen here, it's a large number of you here exhibited by Mr. Brk, by Mr. Banjac, Mr. Amidžić and many others that all these principles, less so, most of them are not clashing. He's not in college with each other. The number of these principles that you have presented here can be treated as one set of princesses that should surely find their place in this law and I can say in the proposal that you have before you with all the alternatives that are present, as well as in the amendments that are now in progress within the Council of Ministers, that the less principles that you have brought here are contained. Another thing that we can force some princess to call the opposite, so as a result, we have this job that I've been doing for three years. Three years before the various councils of ministers is the CIP project. She's three years old. Our point of view, to repeat once again that the dilemmas that occur, such as the dilemma whether this document should be for external or internal use, these dilemmas are unnecessary. We think he can do both. We think it's one of the dilemmas we're imposing ourselves needlessly. He must have had to be for internal use, it's clear as day. And also, there is our readiness, and I also believe the obligation to make it so that it goes to meet time, for one simple reason, that this system by various calculations depends on what you take into play, but it will cost...some 40 million marks in its full implementation. We can go after that to make some things cheaper. If some of the things that are our specificities are avoided, and the Council of Ministers is aware of what to do next, let's say, orally, say something in common with solutions, which will reflect all the complexity of BiH, because we believe that the most expensive solutions, which do not reflect our situation, are. The most expensive solution we have is, i.e. We don't have any solution. I responsibly argue that this is the most expensive solution for this country, because this system of mammal citizens is in fact a system that is the basis for our struggle to regulate the institutions of the system, to regulate state structures, to act in accordance with the European principles throughout the country, and this system is the basis of what we call a fight against terrorism. I repeat, we have an obligation to settle this according to the international standards we've accepted, and I'm completely convinced of that. I am fully convinced that there is enough political wisdom and honesty and willingness in us to arrange this ourselves and not to impose ourselves on us, because the most expensive solution now, that's the solution we have, that's the solution that doesn't actually exist, is not the solution. The next, by its cost, is a technically relatively cheap solution, which is more uniform than that here, which can be in collegiate with our specificities, which we think over time can be accepted and coordinated in a peaceful way, and we ourselves need to do so. The most expensive solution is the other solution, which will technically be cheaper, which eventually imposes on us someone because of our obligations to fight terrorism. We don't think we should do that. The Council of Ministers is on the point that it is better to make a move, so to speak, in a more conditionally complicated sense, but that will be acceptable for us, which we will reach a consensus here. We think that the solution we offer, that what we can achieve is consensus, consensus, and that the better we go to realize this, the 30 because if this law in its beginning has negative connotations, more than it's good, then it can slow down, and the opposition of realisation will come back to all of us, or it will refuse about these four million people. We will be obići by the head in our economic reforms, because we will get a reflection that we are a country that is unable to office one banal thing, that man has a personal document – a personal document, which is in accordance with European standards and that our personal document is protected and that we know who has it. If we don't do that, be assured that that report I said we'd prepare, related to one of the business partners, that it would be worse for us, it's as clear as day. We're talking about foreign direct investment in this country today. We are not just talking about the U.S. citizens about one law of that kind, and that is why I urge you to try to find strength today and tomorrow and this home and others to come to one solution alone. The Council of Ministers has constructed a system, which I think we respect the principles we talked about here. I think he and these dilemmas are resolved by not having them, which is a system that could be both local and international. We also think that, conditionally speaking, this is the kind of solution that we are, in a way, bending a spring and at one point... like a spring crack. We folded it as far as we could, and that would be our solution, which would be acceptable to everyone. I therefore appeal to the Council of Ministers then to have enough political courage and to come to a solution alone in this day two. We, as the Council of Ministers, have a willingness to do so, and we offer it here. We, in parallel with the fact that you know, are looking for financial support for this system and for some other subsystems to build BiH institutions, by seeking support for this system. If we come to a solution ourselves, it's easier for us to get support. If we don't come to a solution ourselves, we'll find more support and the final replication will, again, be that we have a bad report on economic and similar business ventures, in which it will be absolutely pointlessly more who is to blame. So, finally, I want to say, once again, that we're not in any way going into any debates that could lead us to postpone things by a day or two, three or more, because someone else who's going to say three years we've been waiting for you, now there's no waiting. Then that's the solution, which is, I'm sure it's worse than any one we'd ever make here. No matter what our jurisdiction is, regardless of our constitutional obligation to worry about what this country will look like in the eyes of the world, we are not the only ones who are responsible. We in the Council of Ministers have full awareness of what we have to do, even if it doesn't say that we have to do. Everything we do will not be against the Constitution, it will not be against any law, but we are obliged to draw attention once again, that the adoption of this law and this set of laws can mean a greater turning point for us, but the adoption of the Election Law. In every sense, that word. Not adopting this just means that someone else is going to solve this problem for us, and that we're actually going to be the biggest losers in all of this together. I repeat, the Council of Ministers has a proposal, there is a solution after your acceptance that in consultations with everyone to explain our proposal to see that this is some solution that can be for good, I believe that the solution that we have could be taken by consensus in this House. Therefore, it is assumed that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this provost reading is now going through and that we come to a common solution in both homes as soon as possible. I don't want to think about what this whole thing would come up with if we didn't come up with a solution together. That's why I'm convinced we'll get to him. I thank you. Thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5189	Thank you very much to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We gentlemen finished the debate before the break. All the MPs who asked for the word, they got the word. I remind you of Article 95(1). The Rules of Procedure, where he stands. The debate in the House will begin with the first reading, concerning the necessity and principles on which the bill is based, according to the commission's report. So, we have a duty to make a statement about the commission's report. I remind you of the same article in item 2. The debate on members will begin if Dom decides. If the House does not so decide, the proposed law is considered rejected. I'll remind you of the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which it stands in. On 2nd of the 14th session, held on 11 October 2001, the Constitutional and Legal Commission held a general debate on the principles, principles and members of the proposed law and amendments. Finally, the Commission’s position. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House of Representatives concluded, most of the votes present, that the proposed law is necessary and that the proposal for a law on the personal map of BiH citizens is addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in the adoption procedure. Before that, I am obliged to inform you of something about the letter, which was sent by the BiH presidency, and signed by the chairman. The letter was dated, received on 23.10.2001, as it was requested to be notified here, I will inform you. Honorable gentlemen of the presidents. The letter was addressed to Mr. Tokić and to me, as chairman of the Houses in the Assembly. I am speaking to you on behalf of the BiH Presidency, and in the context of a review of a set of laws under the CIPS project. The BiH presidency appreciates that implementation of the CIPS project is, at the most recent time, one of the important elements of the construction of the composition at all levels of BiH government, which will have large reflections of BiH's stability, the fulfillment of international commitments, and the affirmation of our country's opposition as an equal member of the world community. I will not read everything, in short, so I am taking this opportunity to give you and your members both at home, and this is our obligation to inform you of this letter once again, to point out the importance that all three members of the BiH Presidency attach to the adoption of the mentioned set of legal solutions, and to the responsibility for stabilising the country's situation and the progress of European integration. I hope that in a no doubt quick for the sake of BiH, you share our views on this matter and that a set of laws will be mentioned, as soon as possible, by including both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Please receive the expressions of my sincere respect and signature of the chairman. I just read this not to affect your vote, it's your commitment, but what was my duty to warn you. I thought members of the Bureau who were here would take it orally. But they're not here. It was, of course, my obligation to inform you of this, respecting the independence of the BiH presidency. 32 Gentlemen, we should make a statement to Article 95(1) on the report of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and decide whether a debate can be opened by members. I repeat this is just the first reading and it's not, the first statement is not definitely a statement. Therefore, a declaration by Article 95(1). Yes, it is. I will now put to the vote and ask the MPs to declare who is to accept. Take it easy. Do you, Mr. Tošić, answer your word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5190	On behalf of the Club, our Club President Mr. Banjac gave 4 established principles with which we want to be here today, about which we all minors did not and discussed supported Mr. Lolić from the second club on this first reading of them pleaded. It means that we would approach a statement at all today in the first reading, so we're asking first to plead whether or not we accept these principles that both the club and the club put together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5191	Thank you very much. Who's answering for another word? Here you go, Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5192	On behalf of the Club, I'd like to say that I've seriously suggested that this law should rest on the principle of international standards. So respect for international standards when it comes to this matter, and I would just visit that international standards under our constitution that the rights and freedoms provided for in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its protocols apply directly in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These acts have priority on all other laws and in point m. the right to freedom of movement and residence closer explains that the supremation of international law is stronger than domestic law. The Council of Ministers therefore had an instrument if it sincerely advocates European principles for entry into Europe, then there is no compromise here. It's the SDA's position, and I'd like to make our only statement on that principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5193	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Mr. Banjac. Do you have anything new or what Mr. Tošić said? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5194	... He speaks for the club, I speak for myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5195	That's why I'm asking you, because in the name of the club, a position has already been given. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5196	Thank you very much for your concern, Mr. Chairman. I respect the Honorable gentlemen of the 95th is perfectly clear, and I have neither come out here nor to fight for what I have argued nor to attack others. I'm simply asking for the respect of the Rules of Procedure and I think, Mr. Chairman, that it's perfectly thought-out, if you understand me correctly, so you're deliberately violating the Rules of Procedure, and I think you should answer for that. Because you've only read the 3 attitudes on purpose two. On purpose, of course, you did not flip the sheet and read item 3 that says – The House can ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on new guidelines. It is our right, and in this discussion with full respect, whether or not I agree with what Mr. Borić said, it is a second reading. That's what I'm going to say by voting, but the gentleman has quite precisely defined the principle. I've precisely defined on behalf of Club 4 principles. Mr. Lolić defined the principles. Dear Mr. Chairman, you have no right to bypass the facts of this session, and what people have proposed and people are asking for a statement. Second, as a lawyer of the profession, it must be clear to you that in the article, Article 95, paragraph 1, the first reading will begin on principles. In order for me to declare the principles and anyone else, we need to define the principles on which the laws are based and read before the vote those principles so that I know, and why I vote and what is the principle. The principle as Mr. Borić puts it, of course, I would simply ask for the concreteisation of that principle in that sense, to indicate Decidantly what is meant by principle. Because gentlemen, principles are general rules that draw individual attitudes. That's quite accurate and clear. Therefore, entrenched Mr. Chairman, respect the MPs and their rights to propose and demand votes for what they propose. Define the problem to vote on. So in this case, define the principles, and gentlemen, we'll vote as to who thinks they should vote in line with the arguments. I don't affect anyone how they vote. I demand the respect of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5197	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Have a seat. You asked a question. I'll give the answer. You said I read Article 95(1) and (2). That's absolutely true. You said I didn't read Section 3. That's absolutely true. But it is also true that none of the MPs proposed the application of Article 95(3). Please. Niko suggested, let me, don't get in my word, I heard you. No Niko has proposed to draw up a new report from the Commission and based on new guidelines within 15 days. He's got a stenogram. That wasn't the proposal. As for your position, I must say that there is here a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission signed by the first vice-president, Mr Muhamed Begović, and before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, an opinion on the proposal for a law on the personal ticket of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which it stands, is only allowed for the sake of clarification of the MPs. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Representatives' House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has simply established by majority that there is a valid constitutional legal basis for the adoption of the said law and that the text offered can be sent to the competent commission of the BiH House of Representatives in a further legislative procedure, that is, of course, the Constitutional and Legal Commission that sent us this report. Allow the chairman of the 34 Commission you gave Mr. Banjac an opinion. So much for the public. Please, Mr. Banjac, let me finish. I didn't get into your word. Next. There is no reason and there was no cause by the chairman that you doubt that everything will be put to the vote. I just said that, according to Article 95(1), we must declare ourselves on the Commission's report, and I will put on the vote by Mr Banjac in line with the Rules of Procedure and the proposal for the principles that you have given and the principle proposed by my colleague, Borić. It'll all come to a vote, and allow me, you have to be patient to let me formulate it and then go out and ask questions. This misunderstanding would have been avoided only if you'd let me finish, and my intervention was because Mr. Tošić has pleaded to speak on behalf of the club. I thought, you know, if someone's talking on behalf of the club that it's the club's position and that's the end of the story and that we can go to the vote. Please consider it a single misunderstanding. If you don't mind, I'd suggest we move forward with the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5198	No matter what your wishes, Mr. Chairman, I regret to say that you are Dr. Legal Science.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5199	I beg you, Mr. Banjac, stick to the order. Please, you're not here to evaluate anyone's knowledge, nor am I yours. Tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5200	You forget that in the procedure you are obliged to do the following in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is true that MPs have the right during the debate to lay out principles that are not contained in the law, which was the case. Principles are laid out which are not in the laws. They should be made known first, because if only one of them is adopted, this report will have to be completed in accordance with Article 95(3). That is why it is not appropriate, and you wanted to do so, to vote first on the Commission's report, which would make any other business absurd after that. So, please, sir, you've broken procedure and you have to accept this if you've broken it. On purpose or on purpose, I'm not getting into it. That's all I'm saying is I regretted breaking the procedure. I hope you take this well-intentioned as my contribution to a very honest respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5201	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. I understood you just like you said, and believe me, there's no dilemma at all. I've never doubted your well-meaning and your understanding of rights, and I'm glad you said so. I repeat it never and will not happen, only by technical error that any MP be ignored, marginalised and that his opinion is not expressed and that the Rules of Procedure are not respected. Therefore, be still there, and all the other MPs and we will, and the MPs will declare what they think, and that is not the problem. Only when someone's talking on behalf of the club is I think that's the point. Thank you very much. 35 I suggest we approach the plea. There's no reason. We have two requests here, and that's Mr. Banjac, that's Mr. Borić, and we have a report from the Commission. If you insist on voting first on your principles and on Mr. Borić's principle, there is no reason not to put it on the Commission's report, although I do not see that there is a business obligation. Here you go, sir. First there's a vote on the commission's report, but anyway. Here you go. It's not a dispute. We can go anywhere you want in a row. I don't care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5202	Gentlemen chairman, fellow MPs, guests. There's no voting on principles according to the Rules of Procedure. The vote is on the proposal, whether a new commission report will be sought. Please respect this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5203	You are returning to Article 95(3) and no one has asked to vote in accordance with Article 95(3). Here you go, Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5204	Since I must say that I am really pleased during today's debate, this is a real democratic parliament, I would give one, I mean a compromise proposal. The principles we talked about are contained in this law, because there are alternatives offered here. I think it would be big, I have to be simple nonsense to stall the process today, and I would suggest this is how we put the meaning of this law with alternatives. Then we get tonight, because I already said, first of all in Republika Srpska we need to talk to some more people there, because today we said Mr. Lagumdžija, I liked one sentence of honesty. Well, really, our biggest problem is that we keep thinking that someone's trying to trick someone, and until we move on, we're cheating on each other, we're not gonna get anywhere ourselves, that's another way. I think this would be a compromise solution and then there are Mr. Banjac's principles and Mr. Borić's principles, and then we'll make a final decision about the other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5205	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Please, let's go to the vote. The MPs will vote whatever they want and I don't think voting order matters to the Rules of Procedure. Repeat. I'll read it again. The debate is over. I have the right as chairman to give an explanation. The debate in the House will begin with the first reading concerning the necessity of the principles which the proposal is based on. I repeat, I underline the Commission's report. All three proposals, or four, will be put to the vote, and I ask the MPs to make a statement. I am putting the Commission's report to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Please, Mr. Bjelobrk, no comment. You voted. 36 Who's against it? Please, who's against the Commission's report? I figure it's nobody. Who's restrained? Please present 37, for 29, abstention 7. Does he need an entity? I'd like an entity vote, please. Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the proposed Report? Thank you very much. Who is from Republika Srpska for the proposed IIvestaj? I find 22 MPs from the Federation of BiH voted in favour and from Republika Srpska 7. Report's been passed. I put to the vote the proposal for principles set by Mr Mirko Banjac, which reads - the proposal for a conclusion. Please let me read it, I owe it. In the text of the CIPS law respect the following principles, I will read : 1. Constitutional provisions on language and letter, 2. The text on the documents will respect BiH's constitutional structure, along with the name BiH, to enter the entity's name, 3. The second-degree authority in the case of dispute over the rights of applicants will be the competent authority of the entity, 4. All dutiful records must be kept at the entity level, and these records will as dubious be made up of records at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm putting in a proposal for a gentleman. Here you go, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5206	I am truly sorry to have to warn you that here you would not only be irresponsible to the Rules of Procedure, but in order to in some way confirm that there is no respect for basic procedural and legal logic. In the follow-up procedure, we can plead to the amendments. There's no statement of principles by the Rules of Procedure. About the law, principles determine the character of the law. That would mean twice the statement of the law. Please, I am not prepared to participate in something that is from one violation of the Rules of Procedure and on the other hand that I agree to belittle myself in the sense that I agree to make a statement twice about something that the Rules of Procedure intended to be carried out once. Voting on principles would mean voting on the law. Please, this vote is not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5207	Thank you. Let's not get into that debate, I'm asking for a representative, since he's yours, Mr. Borić. We have conflicting attitudes. I drew it up a little while ago. I pray when someone speaks for the club, that's how it is. Now we have two different attitudes from the same club. I wouldn't go into club relationships. I'm not talking about you 37, Mr. Banjac, I'm talking about the SDA Club, because we have a request to vote and an attitude that can't be voted on. Please let us finish this story, because if we go further in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we will create a big debate. We'll go back to history, etc. I'd like us to work this out in a simple way. After we've finished the debate, we've come up with proposals. Let the House make a statement about all the suggestions, and if so, that's the cleanest thing, because we'll respect all the opinions. If we've broken something, we'll do it later and it'll be time to criticise that we're looking, but I'm asking you to end this story with a democratic statement. Please. Can I just a minute? The debate is over. Please, the debate is over. What do you want, Mr. Grabovac? Of what. There's no replica. You're looking for a word for what? Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5209	Mr. Chairman, I draw your attention to Article 94(a). If they have two different attitudes, then you can link to Article 95(3) that one who thinks it is different should request, in accordance with Article 95(3), the Commission’s report again. You cannot vote on principles because you have already voted in principle. If different attitudes exist in the amendments, then you can return to Article 95(3).
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5210	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. It's not about the amendments. That member. We haven't discussed the amendments yet, you know. The amendment will come to order. I'm asking you to, please, from this situation I want to come out with a statement on all the proposals in the debate. The MPs can plead whatever they want, that's theirs. Please allow me. The debate is over. Sir, I'll Borić you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5211	So, my intention was, I don't know if I did it happily, but to present the position of the SDA Parliament Club and it was sent to the Council of Ministers, the legislator that we want to apostrophe in front of the SDA Club one important principle for us is that this law, that all, that the set of laws be in line with European standards. So I asked the President of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers to give me an answer since we have often heard from this Council of Ministers that our final reach is Europe and Euro-Atlantic integration. I believe that this principle, if it were accepted by the Council of Ministers, and the opportunity is today, because later we won't have a chance to change principles, then I only asked for that principle in front of the U.S.A. So it is addressed not to this parliament, but to the Council of Ministers and to strengthen that principle. Unfortunately, from the Council of Ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I have heard that he has accepted both that principle and others. I'm 38. I think they're incompatible. That principle that I have put forward and some other MPs in the debate which, of course, will be determined by the Members' Club to vote one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5212	Thank you very much, fellow Borić. I think we can finish the debate. We have a proposal for Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5213	Can I have a business intervention too?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5214	Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5215	I'm also joining my colleague Lolić and the others. Contrary to the basic legal logic and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the vote is on some new principles at first reading. Why? So I think we adopted a previous Commission report that was responsible for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. By adopting possibly some new principles, we activate Article 95, Article 3, and we ask the Commission to submit the report again in 15 days, and we have already adopted that report. So it's absolutely absurd to vote on any new principles. Thank you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5216	Thank you very much. Please. It's all clear. I remind you no one has called and said I demand that you vote according to Article 95(3). Please, no one asked. That's what it stands for. There's a record and I'll do it now, please put Mr. Banjac on the vote. You did. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5217	Dear gentlemen, I would like to ask for the means of information to be delivered to me by a stenogram with an additional debate at this point, because I want to give it to the means of information to see that there is a deliberate confusion here to create a confusing situation. I read Article 1 for the public and for the sake of justice and respect for the legality of the work in this house. In Article 95(1), the debate in the House will begin with the first reading on the necessity and principles on which the proposal is based according to the Commission report. There is no vote on the Commission's report, but on the principles on which the law is based, it is quite clear here. It's not about the report, it's about the principles according to the report. If the debate is being held, gentlemen, and if the debate is to be completed, because why should there be a debate if nothing is possible, then I suppose it is the order, if the principles which are not contained in the Commission's report come forward to declare those principles before then, and then the principles set out by the Commission. And that's why the SDS asked for it and it's a different search, me and Mr. Tošić talked with two different aspects. He said Club 39 requires a preliminary statement and we warned you about it, and I wanted to clarify that this is not about voting on the report, but about the principles contained in the report, which is quite different from gentlemen. If you're still reading, it's pretty clear. If the House adopts only one principle which is not contained in the Commission's report, the law shall be returned to completion. To dorado. And there has been a cardinal error here and today, although it has been done on time and said that the principles that are further proposed should first be voted on, and then on the principles set out in the Commission report. Since this has not been done, I ask that it be placed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as Bog has said and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5218	Are you staying on your proposal? Thank you very much. It'll be put to the vote. Here you go. Yes, you can. Here you go. I ask the MPs not to conduct dialogues. You have a pay phone, you can have a dialogue behind the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5219	I welcome all present. I think we're wasting our time on irrelevant questions. Article 95 discusses the necessity of the adoption of laws and principles. Constitutional principles are understood and there are no other principles. The Commission gives its opinion whether there are constitutional principles for the adoption of such a law and it is mentioned in Article 95 and says: the debate in the House will begin with the first reading concerning the necessity and principles on which the proposal for a law is based under the Commission Report. Therefore, according to the Commission's report, it is not after the report. We adopted today a report from the Commission which confirmed that the law we are discussing has constitutional principles, and we all agreed that it is necessary for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5220	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word, Mr. Banjac stays on his proposal. I'll put the motion to a vote. Please, who's in favour of Mr. Banjac's proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? From 37, 11 for, versus 23, abstention 3. Mr. Banjac's proposal didn't get the necessary majority. We had a proposal from Mr. Borić. I put Mr. Borić's proposal to the vote. Who's in? He hasn't pulled the trigger, please. Mr. Borić's proposal has not been withdrawn. Who's in? Who's against you, please? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. 40 Please report on the vote. I'm asking the service to deliver the report. Please ask the service to repeat the vote, because some MPs voted both ways. Please, who's in favour of Mr. Borić's proposal? I ask the MPs who vote to keep them up, not to let them down. If the camera's filming you, there's no problem. Vote. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. Give me the report. 37 votes, 7 votes, 16 against, 5 abstentions, 15. The proposal didn't get the necessary majority. I realize this proposal didn't get the right majority either. Mr. Lolić, one question for you? Your proposal corresponds to the Commission's report and do you remain in voting or withdrawing the proposal? To vote. Thank you very much. I'm putting Mr. Lolić's proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5221	What are we voting on? What's his suggestion? What's his suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5222	Please don't listen to Mr. Lolić. Have you failed to hear the suggestion? I'm asking Mr. Lolić to come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5223	So I suggest that in our first reading, we make a statement on the proposal for the Council of Ministers' Law with the alternatives offered, because the alternatives offered include the principles that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5224	It was adopted, Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5225	If it's adopted, then we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5226	Thank you very much. We're pulling back. Please, I'm in charge of the session. Here you go, Mr. Lolić. Have a seat, Mr. Banjac. Are you answering your question? Here you go, Mr. Banjac. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5227	Please, gentlemen, don't we have the right to ask? 41
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5228	You do, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5229	Mr. Lolić's bill of law with alternatives is pardon the expression at least nonsense. We either vote for the bill where there is no alternative or instead of the text offered we vote for an alternative. We need to know what we're doing. No, no, I'm begging you. If you're looking for principles that are contained in alternatives, is that it? Then put it on, say it like that. So Mr. Lolić is asking, if I get it right, I'm asking him to ask the man. He's not me. Did you Lolić that we should vote on the principles contained in the alternatives to the Council of Ministers' proposal? I'm asking you for alternatives as far as I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5230	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5231	I need to know why I vote, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5232	Ask a question, and I'll give the word to Mr. Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5233	Are we voting on the principles contained in alternatives? Please let him come out and confirm that we know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5234	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. Are you done with the question? Here you go. Mr. Lolić, do you want to answer? Here you go. Please don't leave the seat for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5235	Since, if I understand the chairman correctly with that first vote, the first reading is over. Is that right? If we've adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5236	Please, Mr. Lolić, you can stay on the proposal or withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5237	I wanted, my goal was to finish today's session with the adopted first law reading so we don't screw things up.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5238	We're done here. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5239	If this is over with yours, then I'm withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5240	Thank you very much, Mr. Lolić. Please, I have a proposal for Mr. Avdić and I have a proposal, we've been working for a very long time today. As you can see, the session was momentarily interesting. We had dialogues and it's time for lunch. We're proposing a lunch break. Should I vote? You don't have to. It means unanimous. Concesus. By five o'clock, we'll be back to work at 17 o'clock. Thank you. Let's keep working. Please take your positions. Gentlemen, we are at point 6. Ad. Six. The proposal for a law on the ID card of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House decided it could go into discussion by members. Is anyone answering for a word? No, it's not a second reading, it's a discussion by members, it's the first reading, Mr. Spasojević. If no one answers the word we end up with this point. We're going to the next item on the agenda, and that's Ad. Seven. Proposal for a central record law and data exchange First reading. The draft law is in charge of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Opinion on the draft law, the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 6 September, and the same commission submitted the report to the House on 12 October 2001. I'm opening a debate on the principles of the bill. Here you go. If no one is answering for the debate, I suggest we approach the vote. Who's answering, please? Here you go, Mr. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5241	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman. So that we don't repeat all that story we've repeated, because probably everything that's been said about the previous law could be repeated for this one, because it's the same set of laws. I believe we all have the best intentions, because the general finding is that we really need this set of laws. But what we're actually arguing about. Let's argue in ways to achieve it. I want to point to the next fact. That we must not truly fall into one trap that, under the rule of who is more sworn in the need to pass these laws, we appreciate some kind of patriotism and attitude towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we've already worn out on this one. But if we're committed to, here's the best way to say it, we're breaking the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as some say, and we're going to meet the time that awaits us. In order to illustrate how we are still going to meet time the way we shouldn't, so it's just a question of how I'm going to show you the Central Data Exchange Act. 43 So there is no delay in any case...the need to pass this set of laws, but to see that we are going to meet the time not to catch up with Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional structure, but it seems to me that we would not welcome it. Well, you see, gentlemen dear, it is prescribed here that the centre at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina handles certain records. And I have nothing against these records that are meant to be united on Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws. This is whether it is a record of a unique home number, passports, ID cards, residence, visas, permits, residence permits, driving licences, vehicle registration, criminal records, etc. The centre's jurisdiction is also prescribed, as it is common everywhere in the world, so should Bosnia and Herzegovina that these records represent a strict state secret. Because we didn't make it up, he invented the world. And everything's fine until we get to the criminal provisions of this law. And when we come to the criminal provisions of this law for reasons we will not respect our own Constitution and the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the solutions that are provided here, gentlemen, they are inconclusive. For read – violations directed against the work of the center, and under c. only – criminal laws will be applied in the conduct of this law. I'm asking you gentlemen what criminal law? If these are Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal laws, they don't exist. If they're an entity, they're not said here to be an entity, even if someone thought of them in those criminal laws, this isn't meant to be a crime. And that's why the old Latin saying because you're not all lawyers that I'm not quoting right now says that what's not meant to be a crime can never and no one can answer, never and no one has answered. Yes, it is. It's a remarkablely well-known chair of our home. No, no, he's on his own. Please fine, I didn't have that pretentiousness. I think my intentions are extremely good, so I think if it's like this, and someone tells me here or disproves that it's not like that, then I ask you what happens when we centralize this record that needs to be centralized, and what if I do, if someone discovers secret information about the unique keeping of central records, who will punish him and how? And we have also all sworn, here today and countless times before, especially lately how we want to prevent terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what form it appeared. And here's to adding to some kind of unity, a unique opinion. So, gentlemen, we are not going to meet the weather in a positive way, but we are opening the process of such billing and looking for ways to stimulate individuals at this point to deal with terrorism and criminal acts, because the law proposed by the Proposer has no way of sanctioning such a offender. So I would ask, I no longer intend to report to any law, really that we are trying to finally agree and respect the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we are bound by this entity law. Because so far there is no criminal code of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If someone predicted him, though he should have been adopted first, then this one. But since it is not there, it should not be mentioned disputedly that these are entity legislation and ask entity governments, i.e. authorities which are therefore in charge of respecting and ensuing the criminal provisions that are quite justified here if there is a break-in in Bosnia and Herzegovina's central data records. Thank you, I've had so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5242	Thank you, Mr. Mijatović, for your very correct expert discussion, because you have justifiably pointed to one failure. Here's a colleague of Bjelobrk. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5243	I have to admit that I've been disabled by this Bilbi's brilliant contribution to professional discussion. I'm not on that side, and I don't have that kind of competence. But I would like to remind you, wanting to believe that it is still the contribution of my entrenched colleague to finding a solution and also in this area of judicial protection for the implementation of the laws passed by this parliamentary assembly. Not long ago in the spring of this year, a part of us MPs opposed the establishment of a Bosnia and Herzegovina court. And that's the problem we've been opening on four laws so far. I would therefore suggest that, rather over an open problem that is rightly referred to by a respected colleague, Mijatović, we launch an initiative to explain to us the Council of Ministers, to say the legal elements of protection and, in this respect, to organise an appropriate legal solution, within the framework of the Council of Ministers for Bosnia and Herzegovina's intelligence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5244	Thank you very much. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. If no one is answering the question in accordance with Article 95(1) and Article 2(2), we need to make clear whether or not the debate can be debated by members. I'd like to ask the MPs for some attention. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in? Who's in? Borrow from someone who's not in favor? Please. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. Service report. Of the 36 MPs voted 30, 6 were abstentions. No Niko was against it. Therefore, there is no need for entity voting and I find that the House has decided that discussions can be held by members regarding the Central Recording and Data Exchange Act. We're still on the field of first reading. Does anyone want to participate in a discussion by members? Not by amendment, only by members. So we're not going in phase two, please. If no one answers, I suggest we go to the next item on the agenda. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on residence and residence of citizens First reading. There we have it. It's the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The opinion was delivered on 6 September, and the report on 11 October this year. I'm opening a debate on the principles of the proposed law. Please, who's answering for the word? If no one is answering for a word, I don't see anyone answering, I suggest that we approach the vote in accordance with Article 95(1) and paragraph 2. 45 I don’t think I should repeat the rules of the Rules of Procedure, it’s all clear. Who's in favor of a debate going on? Who's against it? Please. No one's against it. Who's restrained? The vote is the same as in the previous agenda. I repeat, of the 36 MPs 30 is for, 6 abstentions, no one was against. Therefore, there is no need for entity voting and I find that the House has decided that it can be discussed by members of the Law on residence and residence of peas. Is anyone answering for a word for discussion by members? First reading, I repeat. Niko one's answering for a word. Since no one answered the word, we're moving to point Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on single birth number The same, first. I'm asking the MP to put it down, it's not the time to vote. Proposal for a law on single parent number. First reading. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is in charge. She delivered her opinion on 6 September and on 11 October 2001. I'm opening a discussion on principles. Here you go. Who's calling for a discussion? Looks like we're tired. If no one answers their word, we'll go to the vote. No Niko's answering. Let's see if anyone answered. Gentlemen, we need to decide if we can go into discussion by members and accept the report. Who's for please? Thank you. Who's against it? Niko. Who's restrained? Please. Thank you for your service. But apparently, for the third time, MPs have voted the same way. That means of 36 MPs 30 is for, abstention 6, no one against. The entity vote is not necessary and I find that the House has decided that it can be discussed by members with regard to the single number law. Does anyone want to participate in the discussion of members? First reading. No Niko answered the word or I didn't see it, please. No one answered for the word. Thank you. We've finished paragraph 8. Pardon 9. I'm sorry. We're going to the point. What's the point of my colleague Banjac? Proposal for a law on industrial property. Here you go, Mr. Banjac, of course you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5245	Dear gentlemen, given this condition, which is quite well said, I suggest that these four laws are adopted because of the importance of the second reading, because 46 I see no reason since there is no discussion, there are no objections, I see no reason why the laws would not go straight to another reading. So I suggest they go to another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5246	Thank you, Mr. Banjac. We've already adopted the agenda and we're going on the agenda. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5247	I hope you're not denying me the right of business to suggest an addition of the agenda from these four points.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5248	Thank you very much. The agenda has been adopted. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Avdić, the vice-president, answered the floor. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5249	I am sorry that the Council of Ministers is not in the overall composition, but the Council of Ministers has, in the meantime, generated several views and amendments conditionally said which it intended to submit during the time, simply because it is entitled on behalf of MPs or clubs. In this context, we are not prepared to move on to another reading and simply consider the whole of the document that the Council of Ministers agreed with OHR and other institutions. So it wouldn't be good if we went to another reading today, and in that context, you'll realize that simply the House has the right to do so, and in that context we won't be late now, and I simply thank you for Mr. Banjac's idea that we can immediately move on to another reading. But objectively, as far as I know, how informed I am we are not ready to go straight to another reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5250	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. I have the same opinion that Dom isn't ready tonight. We have already adopted the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and we regret that there is no possibility of going to another reading at this moment. We respect the will of the MPs, but the College will do everything possible to move very quickly to another reading. I owe you one piece of information. I think Mr. Banjac asked the right question and he made the right suggestion, but please. IDaće give it to you, Mr. Banjac, but please. Thank you Mr. Banjac very useful and correct proposal, he would have my support anyway, but obviously there are no conditions for us to move on to another reading tonight. Otherwise, Mr. Grabovac, I'm afraid you didn't understand Mr. Banjac's proposal, but it doesn't matter, we're adopting the agenda at the beginning of the session, but there's no problem I can put in place and declare the House about Mr. Banjac's proposal, but it's against the Rules of Procedure, because we have a fixed agenda and you heard it. Thank you 47 very much. Mr. Grabovac, if there's anything you'd like to say, please welcome to the pay phone. Don't throw it away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5251	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I agree with Mr. Banjac's proposal to resolve this set of laws that are important. He did not say that it must immediately continue behind this point 9 to go straight to the second reading, but said during this session what I think we can and should continue, given the importance of the law's session tomorrow. So, then, after the end of the agenda, she continues a second reading immediately. It could be the next day.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5252	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? Mr. Banjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5253	I'm gentlemen, of course, respecting the facts I'm proposing this approach. I appreciate that the opinion and the honourable lady is an MP who has untastefully thrown away when it comes to the proposal, and that is, in the end, an opinion. I know the Constitutional and Legal Commission has rejected all amendments. So I know that. You know that, too. I know about the principles that were here today, nothing was disputed. It's been adopted, too. Given the gentlemen's two very important facts. First that there were no amendments, because the amendments were all rejected. And secondly, today's principles are adopted. I don't see any reason why you're thinking now some new amendments that haven't passed the commission phase. And why do that? Why in such a way obstruct the adoption of laws. And I know that, this morning at the College, there were some amendments that weren't at all in the commission phase. Gentlemen, don't let us obstruct our own Parliament. These are the facts. If anyone can kill them, go out for this pay phone and say, "Sir, you're lying or you're telling the truth." And please, gentlemen, my wish was, by respecting what I've seen, why bother? To do what awaits us in a very efficient way. And I don't see any reason not to accept it. Of course you can do it any way you want, I'm just saying I didn't mean anything by it. I meant the facts I brought here. Behind such facts follows the completely logical sequence that I have proposed. And no different. That's why I did it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5254	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If he's not answering for his word, I suggest we move on, but we should consult club heads about this, of course, because you know when it comes to changing the agenda, then we have to go to the extended College, and here it is about changing the agenda. Appreciateing that it's already 18 hours away, that we're not gentlemen MPs, that we're only about halfway, just a little bit more than half the agenda, I suggest we go with this agenda, and we take a break and we'll consult during the session, club chiefs and colleges with the possibility of continuing the session. But I'm asking you not to waste time at the pace of what we've adopted, because the question is whether or not we'll be able to bring this session to an end with the adopted agenda at all. So the question is a very discriminatory addition. So 48 of us ask you to move on, and in the break we'll meet and see what's best for us. If you agree with the club chiefs and the college? If you agree, so that question remains to be seen, we will agree on rational work. I suggest we move on. I've already been closed, I've concluded point nine, and I've figured out what kind of vote Dom voted on. I suggest we go to point 10, and that's the bill on, we've already been to, I repeat, industrial ownership of Ad. Ten. The proposal for a law on industrial ownership in Bosnia and Herzegovina was the first reading. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the proposal for a law on 6 July 2001. The financial and budgetary committee responsible for which the report was sent on 8 August. As you know, the promoter withdrew the draft of this law from last session because of certain concerns raised in the debate on principles. Whether or not the billmaker has new facts, if not, we would have crossed over. Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 95(1), I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Industrial Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Can I help you with a word? Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Mr. Grabovac, are you answering for your word? And you're not. Okay, thank you. According to this first reading, Article 95(1) should be voted on whether we accept the Commission's report or whether we are going into discussion by members. Dom enters the discussion of members under this law. Please, who's to plead? Who's against it? No Niko kao's restrained? Please. Thank you. At present 35, so vote 35 for, (30 abstention, 5?) Niko one was against it. According to that, it didn't take an ethnic vote, did it? Okay. I find that the House has decided that it can go into debate with members of this law. Is anyone answering for a discussion by members? First reading. No Niko's answering for a word. I figure we're done with this point. Next item is Ad. 11. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission since 6 July 2001. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum is responsible. The Commission's report was sent to MEPs on 4 September this year. I'm opening a debate on principles and necessary legislation. Does the Council of Ministers ask for a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5255	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to say that it is very important for this House to pass this law. This is a law that belongs to a group of laws according to the guidelines of the European Union, i.e. Rodmep. However, given the reserves expressed under the text of the law of a number of MPs, I believe it is necessary to continue to agree on the text in order to create conditions for Parliament to come out with an acceptable text and, therefore, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I am withdrawing the law from today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5256	Thank you. I think we need to respect the opinion of the Council of Ministers. I suggest we accept that and go to the next item on the agenda. The next item of the agenda is Ad.12. Proposal for copyright and related rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered on 17 July. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is in charge. The Commission’s report was submitted to the MEPs on 4 September. I am opening a debate on the principles in accordance with Article 85(1). Rules of Procedure. It's about first reading. Is anyone answering for a word? Council of Ministers, here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5257	Ladies and gentlemen, I would have the same explanation for this law as for this previous, consumer law, and also for the same reasons today we are withdrawing the law from today's session in order to build up the text and bring it into line before Parliament, in which way we will surely ensure that the law passes which was very important was a very big problem if the law did not vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5258	Thank you. We have the same position. We have to respect, please, the opinion of the Council of Ministers, and I suggest we can't have this debate. The Council of Ministers' position is like that. They're looking for new alignments, new preparations, and I suggest we move immediately to the next item of the agenda, which is Ad.13. Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecution First reading. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on 6 July 2001. She delivered the report September 4th, and the report was sent to the MPs on September 13th. So the terms of the debate have been met. 50 I am opening a debate on the principles of the proposed law. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? First reading, principles. You will. Here's my colleague, Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5259	This is indeed a unique example in world practice. The DA's office knows what they are. And in the bill of this law, it says that some commission is appointed by the D.A.'s office. In order not to say I'm obstructing the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and despite the fact that it doesn't exist anywhere in the world, I will vote on a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5260	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. Who's next to the word? Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecution. First reading. Is anyone there? So we can use Article 95, points 1 and 2. Here's my colleague Mirjanić for the vote. All right, let's move on. Who else is answering for a word? Niko. It seems to me that the vice president found that out. So, according to Article 95(1), I don't think I need to repeat everything, because today we have this first reading very much, and I'm already a bit of a wrinkle. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is it, the Proposed Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? Please MPs don't work up, down, but they either vote yes or whatever they want. Who's against it? Please, who's restrained? Please report. 36 votes, 27.6 against, 3 abstentions. We have to go to an entity vote. Please, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who's in favour? Thank you. If the service has succeeded, it has. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Members of Republika Srpska, please vote. Please. Okay, I know. Thank you, Branka. I'd like some attention from the MPs, please. We're all very tired. We've been working all day. The results of the vote are as follows: per entity MPs from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 23 for MPs from Republika Srpska 2 for. The law therefore did not get an entity majority and goes further, it is a process of reconciliation. We're not gonna use a break, there's no need. They're going to go for the coordination procedure through the College. Okay, the results of the vote have been announced. Gentlemen, we are moving to point 51 Ad.14. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Organisation Act That is the first reading. The draft law in the procedure is an emergency procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I remind you that's the decision we made. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted its opinion on 17 July, the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted a report on 2 October this year. The report was sent to the MPs on 9 October. It's about first reading. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Please, who's answering for the word? No, this is the first reading. First reading. So, principles, but the law on amendments and additions, so something that has already passed the principle of constitutional legal basis. Not in this procedure, but earlier when the law was passed. If no one answers the word, I suggest, then we approach the vote. Not to repeat everything. Who's in? Thank you, who's against it? No Niko, one if I see it right. Who's restrained? You don't need an entity. There's no need. Okay. All right. The results of the vote. Present 36, 33 for, versus 1, abstention 2. There's no need for an entity vote. I find that the predstavnički of Representatives has decided that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina can go into debate by members. Is anyone answering for a word after that debate? If not, I suggest we move on. We're not going in, so it's all phase one. Next point, that's point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a proposal for a decision. I'm opening a discussion. Here you go. A colleague, Franjo Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5261	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club, well-intentioned and in order to make our work more rational and constructive, I think we have great opportunities here, and we have a few suggestions, so I will read it briefly and it will go into further procedure. According to Article 130, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5262	Just one question. Does it apply to the Rules of Procedure? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5263	Yes, it is. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5265	In accordance with Article 136, this may, on a proposal from each Member, consider this and in accordance with the Constitution of paragraph 4(3), etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5266	He's going into procedure. Let him explain and go into procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5267	I'll do it briefly and it goes further by procedure. The first presentation of MPs under one item of the agenda shall be limited to 5 minutes. We have an article there that reads for 3 minutes, but that only applies when considering the agenda. So that's not it. You got it. Keep going. The presentation of representatives of the commission and the club of MPs shall be limited in time to 10 minutes. The replica or correction of the exact quote should be limited to one minute, and the reply shall be made by the MP, we have suggested with the yellow card. It doesn't have to be yellow, but let's see if it is. And the replica on the replica can be at most one item on the agenda twice. It means it's not what you know the replica on the replica, so on and so forth. somehow it's going somehow. Exposures per item of the agenda, the presentation of each Member of the committees or the club of MPs must be in accordance with the agenda, and in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH, devoid of insults, violations of the dignity of MPs, particularly in terms of the nation, nationality. If a breach occurs, the chairman will warn the MP, and if there continues to be an offence, the chairman will suspend the presentation of the MPs and, if necessary, give a public notice. This little thing needs to be analyzed, you see some way to say a far stricter order, but in our opinion, it would still have to be established. The chair shall be obliged to suspend the exposure if the discussion is not in accordance with the agenda or the time of exposure exceeded. We even suggest that an electronic clock be introduced here which, when the MP starts putting pressure on the button, he will ring the bell himself if the time is too high. We also suggest, here at the end, the addition of resources for more efficient work at home as a canvas, graphoscopes, projecting certain content of more complicated material, etc. There's some content that's hard to track, and then maybe it would be far more explicit to project it, see, to show it more effectively. I'd be free on behalf of the MPs' club to give it away and to go after my own.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5268	Give it to the Secretary of the House. Thank you, Mr. Majdandžić and you and your club. I'm obliged to warn article 56. The Rules of Procedure which states that, that the MP can only talk about the issue being discussed in accordance with the set agenda. This isn't within the agenda. You have the right to initiate the procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure according to your understanding to propose this in writing. It's something you can do as an MP and as a club, it's not controversial. But today we have a second agenda, and that's, that's for us to want to respect modern trends in the world, and that instead of saying -- equality in our rules of procedure is 53 -- gender equality. I believe that nothing is disputed and that we all want to respect that we are all so that there is equality and that this little technical error, this little technical imperfection in our rules of procedure, we respect and show that we are at least a gentleman and that we respect gender equality. Is anyone answering for a word on this? If not, I assume there's a concession and I suggest yes. Please, just a minute, I suggest we go to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm very pleased to find out that we were unanimous on this today. 31 MPs present, for 31 MPs. We have shown you that we are the level of European parliaments, of European movements. I find that the proposal has been adopted. I suggest now a shorter break than 15 minutes to, uh, work with the College and the club chiefs to see how we're going to work. Thank you. 15 minutes off. I know we're all very tired and impatient. Thank you, fellow Grabovac, for allowing me to successfully complete my thought. The proposal of the College, Mr Avdić and myself is that, because today's session was exhausting and long, we now interrupt the session and continue Friday at 10 o'clock. What are the reasons? Can you get an explanation why? It's our position to interrupt the session. Please, Mr. Banjac, and let's go Friday at 10. The college is the one who's taking care of it, and we're not going to have a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5270	We need you. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5272	Dear gentlemen. I understand your desire to free us from fatigue, if you haven't tired us already. But I also think you don't really abuse your position. We also need you to explain that this home states whether or not she wants to interrupt the session and why she interrupts the session when I think we can end the session today and possibly tomorrow if God doesn't stay any more. And we have a lot of desire to see what the point is that 54 should stay. Why don't you finish the session? I don't see any reason. I'm asking you to explain to this house why the session is being interrupted?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5273	Thank you very much, Comrade Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5274	Would the House please plead if it would interrupt the session?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5275	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5276	Don't say that, sir. I'm an MP. Sir, I'm an elected MP. Do not show impatience. Take it easy. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5277	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. We understood what you said. Here's your colleague Majdandžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5278	I'm here you know a little bit of a newer date and I'm already uncomfortable surprised and disappointed with this kind of work. I'm really surprised why that is? When we all know how to work. The college has no right, and let them tell me that I am wrong to change the established agenda and then interrupt the session. On the other hand, he has no right to say that it's 15 minutes off to be 65 minutes off. That's humiliating to me. I don't allow it. That right I didn't pass on... Please, are we gonna do this right or not? As of today, I will attend this honourable Parliament when I am given confirmation that it will work towards the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I will not be present. I'm humiliated and offended. This is not how I learned to work and I don't want to work because I feel responsible. So when I get confirmation from the College that it's going to work under the Rules of Procedure, then I'll only come to the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5279	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? We haven't changed the agenda of today's session as you know, and it's obvious that the session lasted, here's how many hours, that we're all very tired and very exhausted and, I ask you to listen to me, and that's why we're continuing Friday's session at 10 o'clock. There's no other reason, and we've had a similar event before, so we've also solved the problem this way, because it's 8 o'clock already. So we're exhausted and we're tired, during the session, and there's no reason not to agree to continue Friday at 10 o'clock. Here's my colleague, Mijatović. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5280	Well, I'd say the following is that there's really no excuse for this kind of behavior. We have two points of the agenda left, and that's not at all a problem for all, as far as I know. And let me tell you today is a few days, and you're proposing in two days that we call back the Parliamentary Assembly. That means certain costs. And we said we'd behave rationally. Furthermore, even though you're not listening to me, I asked to be a professional, so you replied that you couldn't. I'm not a professional, I have a duty at work. And I'd like to meet my obligations properly both in this House and at work, because you didn't let me be a professional. There is no real justification that the last two, three points that are not at all controversial, are the verifications of the Parliamentary House and the information, I would rather say which are on the proposal of the international community and I don't know who but who are not at all problematic. If there are any reasons, and we see that there are because you gentlemen are consulting with some in the meantime and in these breaks. Someone's giving you a hard time. So say it openly, tell us brother. So we'll understand that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5282	But there's someone who doesn't have salt. So we won't let you salt it for us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5283	It's all wonderfully said. Who's calling? Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5284	Dear MP Mijatović expressed a finding that could not be accepted, which is that the Administrative Commission of this House has not prevented anyone from professionalising its function. The more we encourage and support the professionalisation of the work of MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. So so far, we're going with automation. So absolutely neither does the board of directors decide, but we have agreed with automation. So the attitude is also guaranteed by the Constitution. MPs can professionalise their function without any problems. So that's one thing. Secondly, I ask you to respect this high-level House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respecting today's agenda, respecting the simple state and space and time in which we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to allow us this freedom and this proposal to respect that we continue Friday's session at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5285	Thank you, Comrade brkati. Here you go, buddy brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5286	This is a very serious thing, and it looks like we're in the mood, and I can see the smiling faces, because it's going to be a Friday session, and that's why I'm not smiling. But I need 56 to explain here to know why there is no follow-up session. The Alliance doesn't work, brother. No one's gonna say it out loud. Go ahead. I can't make a deal. Only around the chairs can I make a deal. It doesn't work. You can't vote because unfortunately, we have to come back on Friday. I'd like us to do it for us. It's easy to vote, but the problem is the Alliance can't agree on how to vote. You make a deal if we have to help, we can help you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5287	Thank you very much, colleague brkati. You want the word, Mr. Banjac? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5288	Dear gentlemen, this is a ridiculous situation and that's true. But, gentlemen, we're spending now I've quickly calculated 25 thousand marks for one session. Let's give up that money to let the poor make a few houses of reconstruction in this Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. brkati, you are the President of the Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons at Parliament. Let this Parliament finish tonight's session, and we'll give that Friday's money to the poor girl to build a house. And don't, gentlemen, this is a ridiculous situation. I'm seriously protesting this kind of trouble. This is about a deep crisis, if you remember correctly, I did not want to take part in the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the beginning of today's work. And this is a serious crisis. And I think this is irresponsible behaviour towards Parliament. I continue to insist that Parliament declares whether it will continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5289	Thank you very much, Comrade Banjac. Is anyone else answering for word? So the college's position is to continue Friday at 10 o'clock. Yes, please. The two of us, and what's not, Grabovacn't open up a question that's no use to you. Therefore, we ask you to respect this and not see how we open the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we continue the session on Friday. Come on, comrade Grabovac. It's all right, Mr. Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5290	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I really don't think that we should interrupt this session with a focus on the extended College that discussed the importance of the laws that we have discussed today and that we have said and the Council of Ministers said that these laws should be passed as soon as possible, given that they are very important in the participation of this coalition, within the coalition against terrorism in the world. And I don't think the College has a business stand-off for this session, if it proposes it, then it has to put it to the vote. Unless, and there is no agreement, it was also not called the Expansive College to make it clear to the representatives' clubs. Therefore, if you want to interrupt the session, give it to the vote, if not, and the proposal from the HDZ Club is that the session continues and this part is completed and that it continues tomorrow, and there is plenty of time when it comes to the House of Peoples, since it is called for tomorrow, that at 9 o'clock, we should complete and pass these laws in the second reading. So it doesn't come back on Friday, so Friday we don't do it again, and then we just play from day to day. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5291	Thank you, comrade Grabovac. Any other suggestions? Since there have been different opinions in the debate, because there are very big advocates to pass all these laws tonight in the second reading, etc. and we have a fixed agenda that has today established an extended agenda that has today been established by the Extended College of Gentlemen, I have not deviated from the agenda you know, I suggest that here we now maintain the Expanded College, this moment in Hall 2. Thank you very much. Get in the hall and let's get on with it. Dear MPs, we continue our work. We had a session of an extended college that was successful. We agreed that if you are willing tonight we will finish the session on the established agenda. Yes, if there is agreement, we accept the proposal made by a colleague of Banjac, so let's supplement the agenda and continue the session tomorrow at 12 o'clock with the addition of the agenda with the CIPS laws in the second reading. Have I, gentlemen, interpreted our findings well by the club chiefs? Thank you very much. I'm putting on, please, I'm asking you this is the agreement of the club chiefs, we need to get to the bottom of this, or the completion of the agenda that the CIPS laws are going on tomorrow at the 12 o'clock session. We've got technical problems. Tomorrow, there's a House of Peoples. Please make a statement. Who's for the proposal Mr. Banjac made? I repeat, an addition to the agenda. Thank you very much. Who's against it? One against who's restrained? I am very pleased to conclude that the proposal has been adopted that the club bosses have successfully prepared this all we needed. Of the 31 MPs, 29, 1 versus, 1 abstention. I think we've found the right solution, gentlemen. I suggest we go with point A. 16. The motion for a resolution on missing persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina is submitted by MP Osman Brka. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5292	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Presidency, came to this resolution after talks with several fellow MPs, because this is indeed a problem with which, unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina's happiness is here many years after the end of the event in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I have therefore taken the opportunity to submit a resolution here. You got it, but I'll read it here anyway to hear what it's really about. The Human Rights Committee discussed this resolution at its session and it unanimously supported it, which I am telling you as an introduction. On the Commission we adopted this resolution, and it is as follows – the Resolution on Missing Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 58 Under 1. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expressed great dissatisfaction with the fact that, nearly six years after the end of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no known fate for 23 thousand missing persons. Given this fact, Dom feels that there is insufficient involvement of the competent institutions of the state and entities to step up activities to address this painful problem. Under 2. The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to actively engage in the lighting of the fate of missing persons and to contribute faster resolution of the fate of missing persons and other possible actors through intensive coordination with the governments of entities as well as the International Committee of Red Cross, the International Commission for Missing Persons and other possible actors. Under 3. The House of Representatives appeals to the authorities in entities that, in accordance with Article 5 of Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement and Article 11. The annexes of the Madrid Peace Conference, ensure that the defence ministries, the ministry of martial arts, the interior ministry, the justice ministry and the armed forces provide full support to entity government delegations in the task force for the search for missing persons, in their efforts to determine the fate of the missing and to guarantee them full access to all sources of information and witnesses. And under 4. The House of Representatives appeals to the competent authorities of the state and entities as well as to the international community to provide the task force with all necessary financial and other resources to perform this human activity more effectively, thus ending the agony of the unhappy families. There were other suggestions. Let me just explain that some associations should be commended in these activities so far. However, in the conversation, we concluded that although there are people and institutions who have done very much in this work. One of these is our fellow MP here, Mr. Mašović, but we have concluded that if there are still 23 thousand missing that no one deserves enough praise and that is why these praises are lagging behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5293	Thank you very much. He's a friend of brkati. Let's move on. Is anyone answering for a word? Who's answering for a word? Here you go, pal Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5294	My fellow MPs, in any case, I support a resolution like this, but at point 3, we would not appeal anymore. The appeal is in this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and so much. I would here this word House of Representatives so where it writes – appeals to, deleted and replaced with the House of Representatives obligates the authorities in entities to comply with the member..., because we have enough appeal and the fact is that there is still a mass of bodies that are missing, that we do not have any information. It seems to me that we need coordination in that direction, not only with appeals, but with proper obligations. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5295	Mr. Malkić, if you have an amendment to the proposed resolution, you are required to submit it in writing. Do you have an amendment or not? Here's a colleague of Amidžiću, a colleague of Amidžić's called before his colleagues, Brk. If it's not a problem, we can respect that order.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5296	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, I have come out to ask you one question to the author of the resolution, and before that one of my remarks on the concept of resolution at all. The resolution is an act, an act, which expresses the will and determination of the one it brings, the commitment to fight for these objectives within and within its competences, etc. And it can't have one rigid legal language. She needs one call, one is you, one general approach. Because that job that needs to be done probably takes a long time. It's the practice and experience of the world. However, I have said this because of future resolutions, that a little service may help us in this design of language and style, but even so I will support the resolution, it is not disputed. I will podržaći it because of the initiatives, because of the proponents' motive for these human human issues to be resolved faster. If nothing about that last item is that it is a painful question for both family and people, etc. Now a question to the author. In order for us to be as credible as possible, I've learned a little math and study, etc. So this world of great numbers sometimes tortures me. It separates me from reality. Is that about 23 grand, somehow a round number. Beware of the resolution remains as one permanent number, beware the resolution remains as one permanent document, as one permanent document in the work of one state parliament. You understand me. Rather, it is better to specify the actual number it is available to, regardless of the credibility of the source. You see, we know these CIPS laws, that's the problem. Probably up to that number, and it's hard to prove it in a few people at least so on. The question is whether it's 23 and 10, 11, 12, 111 and so on, or if it's really that number 23. If it's 23 thousand, then let's say about or approximately. Let a reserve be found in the resolution, because the figure defines something from which it will not be able to deviate, and may be denied later in a given practice etc. So the question is, I don't doubt the size of the numbers, but somehow that round number is a little bit, look, one man is important to me. It doesn't matter if it's 23 grand and 1 man or 23 grand. Every man is important. It's human. We're human society, etc. Therefore, if you have sources, specify them completely at this point. You do not have to specify data sources, but specify the actual number. If that's what they say it's from the camels, then let's say it's about to have a spare. I just have a little bit of a problem with round figures in these important documents. Thank you. And I didn't want to leave a questionnaire in front of your initiatives, in front of your suggestions. I will support the resolution independently of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5297	Thanks, buddy. brkati asked for a word. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5298	This is a respected colleague of the motion for a resolution. I accept all well-intentioned suggestions and indeed from Mr. Malkić. I accept that if we can adopt this instead of appeal without an amendment, we can accept this, instead of appeal – binding and under number four, instead of appeal – obliging. I mean, that'd probably be a little stronger, if that's all right. That's one thing, and the other thing about numbers, sir, the exact number of missing is, here I am now, at the disposal of the state, is currently 27,719, but beware of that, about 4,000 are already located, unidentified skeletons in certain places. Please, but you'll never get the right number round. This is still not the final number. So if you add these 4,000 that are in there, please, unidentified, then that number is about 27,719. That's the number, but since we know where they are, and these 23 grand don't even know where they are, then that's this number. Well, I agree. I agree to put it in there instead of $23,000, about $28,000. It's increasing by that number. Then it increases by that number. That's why this number is, not this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5299	Thank you very much. Who else is answering for a word? You can be a colleague of Grabovac. You didn't say much today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5300	Here's what I'd suggest. I don't think it's a good number, this Mr Amidžić has well explained what the resolution is and how it is made, or the resolution it commits. The resolution binds whoever brings it. So the purpose of the resolution is for whoever brings it. So he can't even require what you're saying. Perhaps it could be a peaceful solution to seek. A request is equal to a sanction by law, you're lawyers, I'm not, but layishly I say a request equal to a sanction, if someone doesn't do something, then it has to be sanctioned. If you're looking for something from someone, then you expect him to do it. So I suggest Mr. brkati, since you're the creator of this instead of appealing to say look.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5301	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5302	When it comes to these 23 grand, you say a few tens of thousands. So maybe it'll settle to either 27 or 19 and again it's, or 21, then it's a couple of tens of thousands again and it doesn't play with numbers. The numbers still stay, and I think they're ticklish for those who suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5303	I'm just asking you to finish my colleague Grabovac, and then you take your word for it. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5304	I mean, I gave an explanation. I don't think that in a resolution especially this character should stand a figure, because it still stands with your signature behind it as a proposing with 23 thousand, or about 23 thousand. And what if it's under 20 grand or if it's over 30 grand? Then what is it? Then maybe it would be a reconciliation of a few tens of thousands, with it could be two tenths or three tenths.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5305	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogić came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5306	Ladies and gentlemen. This is a really difficult and painful question, and unfortunately we're discussing it this late. Maybe it was supposed to be the first item of the agenda. However, I suggest when it is already done by operating on this data now available to the Commission, i.e. the State, which is the exact data of 22,700 and something. Let it be specified, if 4,000 are unidentified. I repeat, unfortunately, to Article 121, the resolution cannot obligate at all, giving political guidance. That's our reality. And I agree he's asking. I propose that it be added by the Presidency, and then by the Council of Ministers and other institutions as stated in our Rules of Procedure, and of course we put that into point 3 of the entities, although we cannot commit entity institutions as the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least according to what it says. We can therefore ask the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with our documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5307	Thank you very much. Here you go, buddy brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5308	I really thank all fellow Members of Parliament who want this resolution to be better and better. I accept Mr. Bogićević's suggestion to be here under number 2. The House of Representatives is asking for the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. The presidency was abandoned. And I also accept that under the number three and four, instead of appealing – put it in search, and I would stay here around this figure about 28 thousand, because that's it. These are the figures of the Commission state that the number is about 28 000. I'm sure you'll never know exactly, but that's about this 4,000 right now, so it's going to be about 28 grand. I'm asking you to accept that. I don't think he'll cross. If he goes over, I accept my mistake, but I did this, I got this information from people who know, who read that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5309	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5310	Well, that's why the eye was said, it's not true. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5311	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? We have to try to simplify things. I don't think there's any controversy here. So you have the text of the resolution in front of you. It is not disputed that instead of being a word, the word would be about, not the exact number, but about 28 thousand missing persons. Yes, you're asking me to put in the BiH presidency and that's logical. It is obviously a mistake to drop the Presidency and appeal to the place – ask. Because we're not the ones who can make any commitment to anyone, and that's not controversial. This would mean supplementing the wording of the resolution. Do you agree, Mr. brkati?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5312	Thank you. I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5313	Can we go to the adoption of the text resolution? Any objections, suggestions from others? There isn't. Because no one's answering for a word. I suggest we vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that, of the 31 MPs present, 31 MPs voted in favour. A unanimous resolution has been adopted. Ad. 17. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment II with the Agreement of the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROFIMA I am opening the discussion. If there's no discussion, we'll move on to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Is anyone against and abstentioned? Comrade Kovačević, you vote twice. I find that unanimously of 31 MPs from present voted in favour. That it was unanimously adopted. (b) I am opening a debate between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Turkey on reciprocal improvement and investment protection. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back. Unanimously 31 MPs for. c) Agreement on the issue of succession I am opening a debate. There's an introductory exorcism, please. Professor Trifković. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5314	It is my pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to brief you today on the agreement on the succession of the former SFRY. You know history. Negotiations ran in three stages. At a conference in May in Vienna, an agreed and pre-defined agreement and a non-coon was signed. Due to the length of the negotiations, here are exactly nine years, some issues have been resolved on their own and are therefore not in agreement. It is a succession of contracts in international organisations, the issue of citizenship and government debt. You know the structure of the agreement. There is one part of it... along with some other documents, which concern the question of the succession of property and there are two annexes concerning the rights of citizens and legal persons. It was not an essential part of the co-operation agreement, but all the countries in line, as well as BiH insisted on the ministry's instructions to enter the agreement in order to protect the rights of individuals more culturally. The most important solutions to the Agreement would not be put forward here, given the hour. The bottom line is, BiH was able to achieve one result which, in the opinion of both the majority of ministers and the presidency, was fair. Another open problem remains, it is the issue of guarantees from the National Bank of SFRY and the SFRY for old foreign savings and negotiations continue in Basel under the auspices of the bank for international settlements. Regardless of the problems that existed on this issue, I hope they will be successful. What is coming is the application of this agreement and I think, given the mechanisms that exist in it that this organisational issue is resolved and the application of this agreement cannot be limited to state institutions alone, it must be the progress of this society, because it has a lot of interest, a lot of economic values, moral, cultural values that can be protected through this agreement. I am taking the opportunity to thank the Council of Ministers for the support she has given to the entire team, and once again, with gratitude to you, I am looking forward to the co-operation of all the members of the team, because indeed in the 15-day negotiations, they have made every effort to reach this result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5315	Thank you, Professor. MP Mijatović called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5316	I'll try to be brief for real. I've had circumstances and I've been to the Sucession Commission. I know this problem has been solved for many years, and it's good to have at least solved something. This is not insignificant, but if we have a situation that has not been solved, as a respected professor has said property rights to citizens, and property rights to foreign persons. I would simply distinguish that the domains that have been done by succession, mostly from the domain of public law and from the domain of private law from the aspect of how the world observes private law, the horrors are done nothing, but these are very important issues that have remained inexplicable and I would only support or give the initiative, I don't know how to formulate it, but it will understand that the issue of succession is being brought to an end and that there are certainly a number of jobs to be completed there, in fact, the 64 issue, all issues in the area of the former Yugoslavia and the emergence of new states, so that they can join the international community. The international community is looking for a balance 0, i.e. a full clarification of issues in all the segments treated by the succession.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5317	Thank you. Who's answering for a word? If no one answers their word, I'll put the motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find that unanimously 31 MPs voted, 31 voted in favour. I find that the Agreement on Sucession Affairs has been adopted. Just a brief note, gentlemen, so we'll continue tomorrow at 12 o'clock. We have a deal. You'll get some more amendments, and I beg you, since we've finished the work, this is over, now just wait, be patient to get the amendments. Amendments have been submitted from counterpart Malkić, you will receive some other amendments and that is the agreement of the club chiefs. So we're going on tomorrow. The seat was interrupted at 2100 hours. Respected BiH Presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers and other guests, representatives of public information funds, the House of Representatives continues the 15th session. We were planning on starting work today at 12 o'clock. For technical reasons, however, this was not possible. The people's home ended their session, so they were, I must say, very correct. They left out part of the agenda, so they interrupted their session and cleared us of space immediately after the CIPS law. That's why the session couldn't begin at 12 o'clock. Before the session continued, a meeting was held with the College, the College members and the club heads at which it was agreed to supplement the agenda of the 15th session, so agreement was reached and you received a supplement of agenda item 5. Request for consideration of the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data by emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Gentlemen, we can move immediately to the first point, the first point of the supplement, and this is the proposal for a law on the BiH citizens' ID card, it is a second reading before the move to the debate, I would ask the Council of Ministers, the Representative of the Council of Ministers, if they would like to take a word? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5319	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, respected members of the presidency, honored guests, allow me, in short, to give a few words concerning the complete package of laws, which today is in front of you, related to the CIPS project, i.e. the protection of the identification documents of the citizens of BiH. There were amendments to these laws, which you received from the MPs of the clubs. We were in the Council of Ministers considering all the amendments that had arrived. The amendments that arrived at the Council of Ministers were good amendments that improved the existing text of the law. There were also controversial ones who ruled out each other. The Council of Ministers has made a lot of efforts to try to find a peaceful solution, in order to preserve the proposed text of the law as a whole and to also implement, or improve the text of the law with certain amendments. In this debate, officials participated, i.e. the chairman of both the House of Parliament, as well as certain entity officials and political figures, with the aim of reaching a solution for the BiH Parliament to adopt this package of laws and take responsibility into our own hands, and 66 not to continue to rely on laws to be passed by the High Representative or outside Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. So, we tried to find, I'd say a compromise solution, a peaceful solution, between different visions, and I hope that's what we've done. Of course, we don't think this is an ideal law, or that these are ideal laws. There are certain and weaknesses, but it respects one of our realities in which we are, as BiH, respects the requirements, certain standards, European standards, which are prescribed for this area, respects, therefore, a high degree of European and convention and rules from... to the adoption of these laws and documents that will follow after the adoption of these laws, to fit into one, I would say, the European family that regulated this before us. This package of laws has been in front of us for a year and a half, and it's been talked about for several years, but the active work is, like, a year and a half. In particular, it became active after 9/11, following terrorist attacks in the world, and I would say that it has gained special weight these days as BiH approaches the Alliance for the fight against terrorism in the world. We will send the world, of course, and the citizens of BiH, a clear and concrete message that we are an integral part of this world alliance in the fight against terrorism, in a concrete way to show that we in BiH want to regulate these relations in this area in a modern way, as proposed by this set of laws. The compromises that have been made, once again, they reflect our reality. This is what we have lost a lot of time, but I hope it is not a wasted time to come to some compromises to come to a law that will be passed by Parliament. Of course, not all the demands and amendments that have been proposed could have been entered into these laws, precisely because of the specific differences in which we operate in BiH. That is, therefore, one peaceful solution. One solution that will allow us to pass our laws and after this we will go into the realization of a forward, complete project. There were objections why today? Why hasn't it waited for a while yet? For the simple reason that we have to seriously and quickly work on regulating the situation in BiH, in one way, which allows all the weaknesses that have been so far, and they have been evident and about these days our publicity, not only our own but also the world, to be familiar with certain problems that we have, precisely because of one condition that we do not have in one, precise and clear way, regulated and this situation, related to citizen identification data, etc. One of the basic documents in this set of laws is, the ID card, as well as the other set of laws, which regulate it to be tied up in a transparent but secure way, data protection, unique home number, etc. is that our documents, or that our ID card will be in addition to that, which will be identification documents, based on which we will have a secure identification of every citizen, to avoid duplication and other actions that have been known so far, to ensure that through one data protection we ensure that this is a secure document. In another way, this document should also be a travel document. We are aware of the fact that in the beginning this document will be a travel document in a relatively limited area, but we have the ambition to have this document, when the conditions of the travel document are obtained in all EU breaks. Because we meet the good 67th part of those standards that are prescribed by and as the EU. I hope that today, after the adoption, I hope that the adoption of these laws will send a clear message to the citizens of BiH, well-intentioned citizens of BiH, to introduce order to this area, as well as a message to the international community that we are truly on the side of those who want one real way, which is certainly introduced in many countries, civilised countries of the world, to protect citizens and identify all those who are causing certain problems and who are engaged in criminal and other illicit activities in this area. The meeting of the Peace Implementation Council is on Tuesday, and I hope that the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the adoption of this set of laws on Tuesday. I thank you and hope in advance that this set of laws will be accepted in this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5320	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Just to make sure there's a quorum, that's obvious. 31 MPs are present. 19 MPs from the Federation of BiH and 12 MPs from RS. Let me remind you, the proposal for a law on the BiH citizen's ID card, that the competent constitutional and ustavno-pravni authority delivered its report. We've been through the first debate. We're going to another debate, and that means amendments. Please, who's answering for the word? Mr. Stokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5321	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, in consultations with the Council of Ministers, have made joint amendments to these laws because they have accepted three parliamentary clubs. The club I belong to, the SDP Club and the Party MPs' Club for BiH. Therefore, on behalf of the Club, I withdraw the proposed amendments, which have been tabled in the commission phase, because we believe that the essence of these amendments, i.e. the minimum of our requests, is embedded in these common amendments. In short, I can comment on each of these laws. I believe that amendments are accepted if these common amendments are actually accepted today would confirm a constitutional solution, under which BiH citizenship implies entity citizenship. The right of citizens to choose an entity would then be preserved to enter the name of the entity into the identity card and the jurisdiction of the entity interior ministries was preserved to keep and maintain electronic records of the identity cards issued, replaced or annulled in the entity area. In the proposal for a law on central records and data exchange, our amendments in the appropriate places in the law determine the importance of entities to keep central records and data, which contributes to full affirmation of work in this area. Then, the Law on residence and residence of citizens determines the jurisdiction of entities in the appeal procedure for decisions on the issue, cancellation of the replacement of ID cards and the jurisdiction of entity interior ministries, which will maintain electronic records of residence and residence data of citizens in the entity area. 68 Finally, as regards the Law on a unique home number, the competencies of the entity authorities in the administrative procedure are retained and electronic records are kept on the unique parent number in the entity area. These laws also established the equality of the language and letters of the people of BiH, which is also significant. We believe that those solutions did not violate the constitutional principles of the BiH Constitution. We believe that through these legal solutions and proposed amendments, BiH's concept, as a complex state community, is also confirmed, composed of three equal, constitutive peoples and two equal entities. This text of the law, in a systematic manner, regulates these four areas, thus contributing to the fight against all forms of negative social phenomena, such as terrorism, crime, human trafficking, intoxicating drugs, stolen cars, weapons, groups of international terrorists, etc. These laws will allow authorities at all levels in BiH to effectively, organisedly oppose these negative and extremely dangerous phenomena. These laws with the amendments in place, establish records, the number of cards issued, and that means that no one will be able to have two or more of these documents, and also two or more places of residence, and such phenomena have so far been. In this way, it will contribute to the fight against the gray economy, because forged personal documents are also used to register fictitious enterprises. By adopting these laws with amendments, we hope that they will positively echo in business circles, as an environment for foreign investment security is created. Because of all this, as I said at the beginning, I withdraw the proposed amendments that have been tabled in the commission phase, because we believe that through these common amendments, they are also the basic requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5322	Thank you, colleague Stokić. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. If no one's answering for a word, I'd like to beg, please, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5323	Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the chairman, distinguished guests, I expected one of the amendment's proposings to come out and explain these amendments in the meantime, and that's why I didn't report in the first wave and I don't know if it's the right time for me to come out. But on behalf of the SDA Club, I am going out and I am saying that our club will vote against these amendments, which we have received in the meantime by sticking to the earlier commitment to support the Council of Ministers' proposal and to confirm this proposal by OHR, i.e. to accept the reasons for which OHR did not accept or reject the alternatives provided for in the original bill. For reasons, I'd say a few. First of all, considering the complex political situation in our country not only the action of different policies, but also the different values of policies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I appreciate that there are still two things to talk about, or there are at least two things about, for the time being, a verbally undisputed political concept in our country, i.e. in this assembly, that is, political parties operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is my loyalty to say so to the Dayton Peace Agreement on the one hand, and on the other hand, a 69-way drive for our entry into Europe. I do not know that one party or one political reference factor in our country has in any way publicly witnessed the refusal to join Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European association. OHR is an official full-time interpreter and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in this case, I hold a particularly important interpreter is the legal conditions and assumptions for the country's first timely involvement in the European association. The letter sent by OHR in June and re-delivered a few days ago is very clear in relation to the requirements that our involvement in the European Association provides for in view of this package of identification documents laws. In doing so, I am obliged to highlight my distinction, which may be technically problematic, but for our occasions, I think the two types of laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we need to pass and that we need to agree on. There are some laws that are conditional on the laws of a technical nature, because they regulate issues and problems in a way that has, to say the least, universal worldly or globally valid solutions, and that in any case has defined very solid European solutions, i.e. solutions within countries and European associations in which we want to enter. And in those laws that I therefore hold technically, I do not think there should be too many reasons for our disagreements and disagreements, if we agree that we should go to Europe and comply with those legal standards that these laws must inevitably be introduced or incorporated. Other kinds of laws are laws which, by their spirit, I say, need to balance legal solutions in other countries, including the European Union and the countries of the Council of Europe, and to respect the specificities that our country has. These five identification laws belong to me in this first category, and I am therefore somewhat surprised by these amendments, because I will remind you, however, they are in direct contrast with the recommendations and Council of Europe and this very clear OHR position. I'll read only from this letter. You'll allow me three allegations. First of all, it is about the alternative that has been offered and which has now been given its one more precise determination in these amendments. One of these alternatives includes replacing the Ministry of Civil Affairs and communication with entity interior ministries, which would be a second-degree body under the Law on Personal Cards of Bosnia and Herzegovina citizens. My office is resolutely opposed to this alternative since the aim of this law is to place final authority for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina's personal cards at the level of the state. In three special legal acts, my office stressed the jurisdiction of the state on this matter. The second is the attitude in which it's said, about the second point, I get it. I'm reading a letter of course to Mr. Džonson that we all got. I realized that the Council of Ministers discussed the alternative to the ID law to show the entity's entry of the name on all ID cards in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My office is resolutely opposed to this alternative since the introduction of data related to national codes would be contrary to international standards and practices of the expressions of state identification documents and would greatly compromise the value of the identity card as an international travel document. Finally, the third attitude. It is clear from the above that the introduction of entity codes for Bosnia and Herzegovina's ID cards would be contrary to the specific provisions of Recommendation 77/26 in light of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is currently working on admission to the Council of Europe, it would not be advisable to work contrary to the standards of this body. So I'm saying this or I'm reading from a letter that you've all had the opportunity to read 70, repeating the position of the SDA Club and the opinion and personally that these laws belong to me as I said to that first category of law, T conditionally speaking, so technically natural and I'm afraid it's extremely ungrateful on that ground for both this country and for our congregation and for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make compromises. They're not as politically harmful to me as they are, although they produce and that damage as much as they are eco-... among other things, economically harmful and because they're taking away valuable time from us. By adopting these amendments and by acting in accordance with the laws as amendments predict their final solution to Bosnia and Herzegovina will cost very much to produce these documents. Yesterday, from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we heard about these dozens of millions of marks. I am afraid and that is also one of the important reasons why it should not happen to us in view of these very clearly expressed OHR views on the very precise conditions and recommendations of the Council of Europe that this money will not be money for short-term use, or money that will be spent on very short-term validity of these documents. And with that, I could still state the reasons, but these are among other main reasons why the SDA Club will not vote for these amendments and I would like to conclude by calling on us to think about looking for solutions and to make compromises where we really need political compromises, where we need to regulate a specific rule of law, our legal solutions to regulate specific circumstances and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to bring these solutions together with European legal standards and frameworks, while respecting those standards where it is not only easier and more useful, but also where it is an obvious demand for Europe and its associations, and we all expressed our readiness and desire to go to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5324	Thank you, Mr. Neimarlija. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, gentlemen. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5325	Dear gentlemen, members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests. I am fully aware that it is difficult to speak with arguments and especially with the strength of arguments, because then you can only cause yourself anger, because nothing else I can do to you. And I would call on all those who oppose the arguments to use the counter-responding arguments. I will nastojati to, as my dear colleague puts it, to build co-existence with compromises in this space, and I will strive to do whatever I say and suggest in that direction. Unfortunately, what is happening here and right here and now doesn't tell me that I have the right to optimism, because gentlemen of the first speaker here comes out with amendments and imagine wonders that man knows how to hide what's called political manipulation, because he uses the Rules of Procedure to present Amendment 94, paragraph 3. b. that says when the debate begins and certain disproportion in speeches happens then comes out and reconciles solutions. He calms us down before the debate. It is only a sure sign of manipulation in politics, and, of course, as a man, I would like to oppose such an argument if this House cares about arguments. I am fully prepared under full responsibility to bear the consequences of every argument, if he is malicious. But it's gonna be hard to prove. Gentlemen, it seems like something else to me, ma'am. Amendments have been split in which gentlemen in Article 6 are said to be able to pick up a ID card with the name of the entity if they will. And then in the same article earlier, it was transferred to Article 40, but the official 71 is obliged to say that he will have problems, or he will not be able to leave the country with such a ID card. Not to make any sense of it now, in any case, calls for problems. In this regard, first gentlemen in Article 1. Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution is clearly and fully defined as an entity's place and role. Second, how is it that respected friends introduce two models of ID in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 21st century, one if you take it is discriminatory, because you will be limited to snowing and using it as a model, and one that is real. That's why I'm calling on the OHR office to prevent this disgrace. It's impossible for gentlemen to do it here and now without consequences for those who do it. And gentlemen, I don't mind, I don't mind looking for a compromise on this trail, and I'm prepared to offer one of the kind of compromise. I can't accept that the I.D. will share people most likely on a national basis or ethnic basis. I cannot accept that this is what Bosnia and Herzegovina needs, and I will not accept that this is what Bosnia and Herzegovina should do. I want to tell you there's a solution if we want to. I'm not the one for a personal card that's supposed to cross us and I'm not for a personal card that needs to be shared and I'm not for a ID card that should be a distraction for Bosnia and Herzegovina to enter European integration. I'm not even gonna be when I am. I hope so, Mr. Chairman, that you feel the same way. We communicate non-verbally, but we understand each other. And therefore, gentlemen, I am in favour of the solution to be in Article 6 if it is already a European standard to write up the name of the state and nothing besides that it does not bother to be so. So be it. Don't make it about cheap stuff, but I'm just trying to put the name of the entity in Article 6 where it says after the municipality and make it a rule. If gentlemen, so to whom does it bother to write the birth rate of Petrovo, Petrovo municipality, the entity of Republika Srpska, should that bother anyone? If gentlemen can choose I will or will not be an entity, may I choose whether or not I will not be a municipality? May I choose, won't I take the municipality where I'm buried? I don't like it anymore, maybe it changed the name or something? Gentlemen, I think this is a minimum of the minimum of the minimum and compromises that Bosnia and Herzegovina can introduce into a world of civilized European recognised and respected states. In that direction, I am making a modest contribution to this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5326	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. Let's move on with the debate. Gentlemen, who's answering for your word? My colleague, Mijatović, come in. I'm sorry, maybe I saw wrong. Here's my colleague, Mijatović. You'll be a gentleman. We must commend fellow Mijatović, he has applied the first Rules of Procedure on the equality of the sexes of our change. Here are my colleagues, Začiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5327	I welcome all present. I'll look only at these amendments I've received.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5328	I apologize, colleague. Please be patient that MPs. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5329	I will refer only to these amendments that I received before the meeting of this House. If this text is started to read the records of the identity cards found, it is Article 22 and beyond, and you do not know that the law passed by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina could never conclude that it is a state law. Here's why. In the amendments it seems harmless to add a decimal central so add a decimal and put an entity. So no central records of Bosnia under this amendment have only the central records of entities. Please follow only one amendment. I won't bother you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5330	I am asking you fellow Grabovac to be a gentleman as a colleague of Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5331	Take article 23 of the I.D. Act. It says central and local records contain the following personal data. According to the amendments, the central point is entity. Either it's Bosnian law or it's enthusiastic with all respect, the powers of the entities they have under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina that they have under the Constitution of entities. I don't think in any Bosnian law there can be an entity filter. Here he tries to install an entity as a filter at all levels of these laws of importance that we bring. We must first decide whether we will pass laws on an entity or on Bosnia and Herzegovina, or we will represent Bosnia and Herzegovina in the end as Members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament or we will be representatives of the entities as some MPs behave. I don't think these amendments are what they really are. They were done before we got that data from OHR. I've read that data, too. I think they're quite right. We must make these laws a condition for us to be admitted to the Council of Europe, not to discuss other important reasons such as terrorism, relations between states and others. If we now pass these laws beyond European standards, they will bring them back to work, believe us, regardless of our swearing into entities. They know Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think that when this law is read in each member, it must be known that it is the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If I read these views I told you, I would never conclude from these amendments that it was a law for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suggest we have political will. Let's not keep talking about having a sectarian relationship with entities. Entities have their place, we don't dispute them at all, but that we have political will. If we pass the Bosnian law, we don't put a clip in the face of the entity, and that happens all the time. We're installing entity regulations. For God's sake, I guess the entities at their level have passed all the laws they need to pass and I don't believe they should be pushed into the laws passed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, that in some parts they don't even know it's Bosnian law. Or maybe someone that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has one law, and especially those that will lead them to European integration and the status of a normal state that should be with what the state should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5332	Thank you. My colleague, Mijatović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5333	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, is now particularly pleased that I have given priority to the distinguished lady, not only was it a basic order, and that culture requires us to do so, but also because of the fact that she presented one of her visions and she certainly has a right to do so, but with which I unfortunately disagree. I wouldn't explain it more widely, but I can't understand that in some regulations we respect municipalities and counties, and we can't mention entities. Bosnia and Herzegovina is made up of entities, so let's repeat, so I don't know why they bother anyone, and even it was a representative of the international community, because the Dayton Agreement was just brought by representatives of the world's greatest forces and the world's most intrinsic experts, and they signed those entities there. Normally, under the Dayton Agreement, a chapter relating to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is literally prescribed, and it is my intention to respect both the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I would like to say that, in accordance with this, Article 7 provides for an appeal procedure and I do not think that the solution offered is the happiest for two reasons. I have already cited one, which is that the proposed solution does not respect the constitutional and legal status of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other is purely legal, because the proposed solution foresees the degree of trottenity in decision-making, and that trottenity in this form is not common both in criminal proceedings and in administrative proceedings is normal double-stageness, and trottenity is taken into account in the form of emergency legal medicines. Accordingly, and on the basis of Rule 94(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I am submitting an amendment to the proposed law on Article 7 and I propose that Article 3 behind Article 2 be deleted in order to add a new position 3 which reads - the competent authorities of the entities act as a second-degree body in the appeal procedure on decisions of the issuing, repealing and replacing ID cards. I propose that Article 3 be added to Article 4 which reads - a party dissatisfied with the decision of the second-degreed authority may declare an emergency review request to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5334	Thank you, fellow Mijatović. Gentlemen, let's move on. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5335	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, members of the Bureau, here I am when I go and bring the Constitution, but it seems like no one needs it here, because everyone knows it by heart, everyone interprets it in their own way. But once again, I would like to mention two members of the Constitution – Article 1 and Article 3. In particular, Article 3 which accurately defined the competences of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and (particularly or simply) of the entity. Yesterday, when we talked about principles, I was undermining Article 3 of Section 2 below, but I don't think he got anyone excited, and I'm also talking about Article 1 sub 7.e. that the Constitution provided that entities could issue Bosnia and Herzegovina passports to their citizens. Now we have come to the fact that I can't even get a ID card, and then to avoid being fooled by Alliance clubs who have given a similar amendment that I'm now going to propose to Article 22(1) that the entity interior ministries can maintain 74 electronic records, I think that's a big difference compared to what I'm going to suggest, because I don't have this in my proposal -- I can. So my amendment is based on Article 94 point 3.b. The Rules of Procedure are like this - in Article 22 behind Article 1. add a new position 2 which reads: - The entity interior ministries keep electronic records of the identity cards issued, replaced and annulled in the entity area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5336	Thank you, colleague Tošić. Who answers the words of the Members of Parliament? Niko. For his word, he asked for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5337	Gentlemen, members of the Presidency, esteemed colleagues, the presidency of this House, MPs, we already had a very serious and content discussion yesterday, in which we did not only talk about principles, but we did talk about some things that were practically implemented through amendments that we all knew less in which direction they were going. I'm obliged to say for the sake of this letter mentioned here. The letter Mr. Ralf Džonson sent bearing the date of June 29, 2001, and I don't think he writes this date, that I didn't mention the fact that Ralf Džonson referred him to two things. Either it's an old letter, or Ralf Džonson referred us to a term that doesn't oblige us, because a man has long been a deputy High Representative. So in order to avoid this confusion, I should say that this letter was sent on July 21st, or on June 21st, this year, and that we were at a meeting, one of a series of meetings that we had agreed with representatives of the High Representative and asked the High Representative personally to give us a fresh view of the different alternatives that were in that text and all the amendments that came afterwards, including amendments that were withdrawn in the meantime in both homes. We were so responsible a few days ago that practically these principles of whatever we do apply to the principles of June of the month as principles. That is why the amendments, which have been made by the joint efforts of the representatives of practically both MPs, MPs from both homes and the Council of Ministers' agreement, have come to the practical text and amendments that have completely responded, at least so our view of possible problems that the High Representative would see as problems that may not meet the basic objectives of the project. One of the main objectives of the project was to ensure the unity of this project and this whole legislative package, so it is a single document for building Bosnia and Herzegovina on a system that is practically state-owned. Registration conditionally, this ID is because when you get it tomorrow it should be state property. She's not the property of whoever betrayed you. It's not the municipality, or the regional canton. It's the property. It is funded by the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this ID card is the property of a man, but it is it to say the document issued by state institutions. Also, another problem that was the issue of his free international compatibility. These Mr. Neimarli remarks that you have instructed, I can tell you that what we have given here through the amendments solves the problem of this international compatibility, and here, too, in these powerful records, one principle that approximately 75 terminology says must be met so-called. Consistent instability, in other words, that you can have data at several different levels stored in electronic form, but that wherever they are in any other way, so to speak, the database is not the opposite of each other. In other words, it cannot be written in the local, local, regional database, it cannot say that I live in one address, and in the entity on the other, and in this third. So there are identical conditional terms as much as you have levels of records, you can have 12 if you want, they have to be consistently non-conclusive, so you can't, and that's exactly how that triple record, if I can say so, it also allows for additional quality to not make new abuses. This is enabled by this project and this way. What I want, too, and I think it's important in this economic situation to say whether this approach is economically harmful. It made a very big impression on me, I must admit. I don't think this is politically harmful. On the contrary. I think we're facing a two-access parole today. Are we going to try to come up with one solution that is acceptable to all of us, which meets European standards, which satisfy uniqueness while at the same time being ours. Why am I saying this, Mr. Neimarlija? The fact is, I said yesterday that this solution in the calculation, when you're making cold calculations, will collect the project price for some up to 2-3% compared to that solution. However, projects if we adopt this today and we adopt it. So there is a political will between us to do that. In this case, a colleague of Gligorić, who has long, had a great experience on this, he may well know that Mr Mihajlović is working on the problem now and many others here who have been in the last meeting of Parliament are discussing this project. They know that if we accept this now, then there should be a signing of a contract in two or three months after the proper process. After signing the contract and closing the financial structure, it will take about 2-3 months to begin the implementation of the pilot project. Then 2-3 months later, it will come, waiting to begin in urban areas. After that 4-5 months will pass to the beginning in rural areas and about 3-4 months later will come, conditionally we will arrive at the point where we have all received new ID cards. Two and a half million, 2.8 million people have new ID cards. So you can see that not where the year to year and 4 months is an objective assessment of how long this project will take for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have this. This is important to say for one thing. This as much as this project is a personal map, this is technically highly complex projects. It's an extremely complex project. And if, on condition, it starts with a bad political will in this, if the High Representative, because of our inability, you give us a solution that can be, let's say, technically simpler, seemingly more financially and economically cost-effective, it'll cost us more, because it'll take longer, because the crowd of people with not so good faith will come in. And yet we don't want to, even if we were forced to have someone tell us after a certain time, you're not able to implement it, so he can set us up with someone outside to run the IDs on us. I think that's something that if we were to get into that position, then we'd have the most expensive solution, because then this would be a country that would be marked everywhere on the map of the world as a country where people can't get their own ID cards in. And once you've connected it to terrorism, we don't need to talk about economic issues. That's why we, with all due respect, know that we will be accused by many of us, are trying to come up with a solution that most people will raise their hands for, and even if it doesn't fully agree with...my things. To give 76 messages to people in as good a way as possible. I, as well as Mr. Mihajlović, Halilagić, Lovrić and each of us, have a solution that would somehow add differently, but this leads us to a new series of talks in which some third party will no longer have the patience to wait and will say that in a situation like this after 9/11 we act too unseriously to be treated seriously. And that's why I think economics is the most rewarding this time. So it's about the complex application of all these laws and I think it's terribly important that, uh, this is what I'm saying that these aren't so as someone said money for the short validity of these documents, no. What you can possibly set up here tomorrow is that we're too big for it to be modularly solved without new investments. It's terribly important. And on the question why is it said the entity can, why isn't it said the municipality can? Well, because the municipality has to comply with international standards, so we can't tell people to choose what you want to have. You must have what you have by international standards. It's the only principle. And here I also want to fix those -- we don't make people a document that will have problems. You can take a good look at yourself in the stenogram. The official will be obliged to say that the citizen will have problems. Look a little bit better. The clerk will not be obliged to tell the citizens that he will have problems. The official will be obliged to warn if, in the process of various bilateral agreements that we will have and relations that will be exchanged on a daily basis between individual countries and us, that if problems are possible only if the document is used as a document outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. No Niko in Bosnia and Herzegovina can have any problem on any basis and no official can tell him that he will have any kind of problem because the document will be one or the other for his identification on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And so please, I want very clearly to say that we have not made any way of proposing a document that will make people, by definition, discriminated because of the choice of any document. But if this is a document for land use, no one can be discriminated against in any way. At the same time we didn't want to, we didn't want to, and there's this possibility, we didn't want to because of the economic justification to do something that would practically prevent its international validation. If we have, and tomorrow we will have safe alone, lively so we see, we would like health all together to see, that Bog gives us good health and happiness like this as a joyous look that in one year, a year and a half of two days we see that from Zagreb and Belgrade our closest neighbours will give us because of their involvement in European integration that goes faster than ours, paradoxically sounds. Both move faster than where they were than we were. One went further there, and the other moved faster, although they didn't go that far, according to many legal... It can happen to us in a year or two that we can't go to the nearest neighborhood because they respect some regulations that require the world. And we are, therefore, responsiblely telling you that this is a document that will allow such requirements to be set up so that they can simply be implemented with the relevant project complements, rather than with a new project. And that's why I think this is the most economically profitable solution, because it's our solution without imposing, and I don't believe, without imposing, that it can be better even if it seems cheaper. I would, therefore, really be, thanking the people who gave these amendments in this way and I think these amendments that they gave were very well-intentioned, but they are objectively not amendments on which we can come up with some further open issues. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5338	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Wrong quote, Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5339	At the beginning of my last date, I said it was very difficult to talk, because when people don't know how to forgive you, then they have the right to spark it to sound convincing. Although I am perfectly clear from the stenogram and clearly said that there may be problems in use, I am now fully justified in saying that civilization is unacceptable, so I could even use the term and skillfully mounted formulation that I do not say it discriminatoryly could say a more difficult term, and it says just like this – the Regulation on the procedure and the way in which a civil servant is obliged to apply the requirement laid down in Article 6 of Article 5 to learn that the introduction of entity names into an entity's personal map can be an obstacle to its use as travel documents outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it doesn't seem like gentlemen entering a name, you need an explanation that entering a name equals discrimination. They're not in a position like the one that doesn't have that name entered. The very fact that anyone can read can read this. Who can read and won't read manipulations. And I, gentlemen, wanted to agree with the amendment I proposed two extremes. One by which we knowingly spend money and this poor woman making documents that we know will have ghettoist activity, means within Bosnia and Herzegovina, instead of agreeing and making a document that will have a common accepted content, a generally accepted possibility of acting and carrying that document in accordance with European rules of conduct. Why does it bother someone? I would like arguments if it is worth more in this House to make arguments, but truly once again I call on the OHR office to sleep discriminatory efforts by sharing people in such an inappropriate way. Is this how we're supposed to be shared in this weather? Why does someone do that? What are the intentions? And there's a solution and there's a solution. He's got a solution. Gentlemen, if two words bother them, it's worth saying here, let those who say it bothers them come out, that it hurts them if God doesn't write to them in a personal card that will stand in their inner pocket. If that doesn't bother you, what's wrong with my proposal and the amendment I made? I need you to tell me what's bothering you. I'm open to dialogue. I'd like someone to publicly say what's wrong with my proposal. And if anyone chooses, it won't be a problem, if anyone doesn't choose it won't be, but whoever chooses will be ghettoized.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5340	Thank you very much, Comrade Banjac. Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5341	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable members of the Presidency, the esteemed colleagues, I can't help but express my position here and my position, and I'm sure of the Club's position on what I'm going to say. In fact, we're specialists to complicate very simple things, very simple things. A moment ago Mr. Lagumdžija said that the letter of the OHR was from June of the month, but I have here a request on October 23, 2001, to the soul, not protocold, I don't know why. So this letter came two or three days ago. What's today's date, I've already forgotten. So, what was written in June of the OHR, that, I guess, was a psychopath two or three days ago and that's it. I read it today. All right, let's just leave it out of this letter at all. That he's gone at all. Let's just think of two things. I wasn't in that House of Representatives when it came to the joint vehicle registration tables, the passports when spoken, yes, they were, they were also talking about passports and how much money we spent on passports. Here, let's leave the plates. Now passports like this, you gave them passports like that. I'm afraid, Mr. Lagumdžija, it won't be much more expensive than you say, if the OHR tells us, in a year, it can't be with these ID cards in Europe. He can't. Because they have such an attitude that they can't, they want some European standards, we know what they are and they put them in this letter that they are standards. Therefore, however Mr. Banjac asks the question: “What is the problem with those two words”? Justified. What if they're not there, I ask the question. What difference does it make if they're not here? Be careful, neither I nor Mirko Banjac as citizens of BiH, we get or lose anything by not having two words in their personal card. We're not getting anything. We are citizens of BiH and one and the other, members of the State, the House of Representatives of the State Parliament and one and the other, and on this basis the question is also raised. Whether one of BiH's citizens will be discriminated against, if he has those two words, so that we do not bring them all into the same position. Because here, you see, the international community is asking us to. How come the Alliance, which is here thanks to the international community, doesn't agree with what they're asking us to do. From where? Why? Look, I'm just saying now, we can give people tens of millions of marks, we can give them to ID cards to give tens of millions of ID cards again in a year. Why go into such a project? It's very expensive for these people. It's expensive for all of us, and I believe it will happen if we adopt these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5342	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Replica Mr. Mirko Banjac. Wrong quote, Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5343	Mr. brkati, why is the name RS? For the sake of Article 1. The BiH Constitution. Mr. Brk, I am and I will repeat it once more, not some of them not, but some of them have RS, because it is a constitutional category, internationally verified, within BiH... because there is no BiH without Republika Srpska. There isn't. And there is no Republika Srpska, without BiH. There's no one without each other. And I want him to have them. And once again why, there's a third why. And this third why, which is my right to have the citizenship of the Republika Srpska and citizenship, therefore BiH and I want both, and I accept one another and I truly accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5344	Thank you very much. A false quote from Mr. Tošić and then a replica from Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5345	I sometimes experience certain speakers here as if we're in kindergarten and they're giving us a lecture. I.D., when she's gonna be an international document, somebody explain it to me. Please, we can't take a passport and a visa out, let alone a ID. Gentlemen, blame Mr. Brk. The only and one of the first laws to be passed in full procedure in the first assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was the Law on Dogs. So the vote is not imposed. Voted by the MPs and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Exactly, the one that had on the cover of the RS had a Federation cover and never bothered anyone or anyone to wonder what it was out there, but here we changed it. I claim that those who are not ready to write on the inside of the card of the RS, whether they are Bošnjak, Hrvat or third, are not well-intentioned. ... someone will say they will not be able to stand places with the name of Serbian ID cards, and will then ask whether the street of Car Dušan or someone else, Vuk Karadžić, etc. In turn, we'll come into a position, that you'll be wondering if it could be a settlement called, some asked that as a question. For these reasons, if we're well-intentioned, let's be well-intentioned and for the municipalities at least it can be a compromise here, and I don't think anyone in the international community can do that to you from the Alliance, I guess so resented that there's no entity of the Federation, entity of the RS. It is that dominum, which are currently wanted by representatives of Republika Srpska who have received over 50% of the trust. Gentlemen, from another club, you have to ask yourself. Is this what you're doing, the pot... on the ID card that had the coat of arms of the RS, the two-headed eagle with the crown, that he can't even write republikak srpski, and will it be accepted by our voters? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5346	Thank you. The replica of my colleague, Brk, then the replica of my colleague Lolić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5347	Very short. I'm glad he has a stenogram from the session. I have not questioned the existence of the RS in one word, and it cannot be imputed here that it is said here. I'm talking about practical things, which, where we're specialists to make our own lives miserable and I'm saying that the result of that will be far greater material, material expenditures than we would be if we were to do now in this way, in which we suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5348	Thank you. Replica of counterpart Branislav Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5349	Yesterday I made my views and wishes quite clear here. However, if only in policy wishes could be met 100% then it would not be politics. We know that politics is the possibility of compromise, the possibility of finding the best solution. I have to tell Mr. Tošić right now, we're experiencing confirmation today why it's good for the Alliance to happen. You, now you're showing from these two sides of the table how you've tortured all of us in this country for 10 years, how you've tortured us with your crazy politics, 80 I have to say, I have no other word brought into the war, so you just let us have a flag like this, so there's no coat of arms, because you didn't know how to make a deal. I would be much happier if those representatives there were the coat of arms of both Bosniak and Serbian and Croatian peoples. I'd prefer that flag, but I love it now because it's accepted, and it's accepted, because you didn't know how to make a deal. If you'd kept going in that tone, if you'd kept going, and now you'd have come into a situation if the High President had imposed the law on us, and neither of us would have any entity, we wouldn't have any of these laws, and I was just because, even though I didn't think to accept these things yesterday. I realized that it is better to have both the central and the records in Republika Srpska, that we have a second degree and a third degree, which is called legal instruction, that we have bilingualism, trilingualism and two letters, and that yet all those who want to have, Republika Srpska on their own ID card. I think that's a good solution and I'll be very proud to return to Banja Luka, the basic principles that I voted for today, I think that by voting for these amendments I'll respect and I'll really be proud to have done something, and I'll be the proudest thing that we've ever done in the Alliance, those who make it and those who support it have managed to turn a leaf today, despite the fact that the international community didn't want to make a new step and show that we also know without the international community to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5350	Thank you, colleague Loliću. I'll dati you my word. My request to the MPs to lower our tone and pick our words a little bit, so we can finish the session today. Replica, if I understand correctly, colleague Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5351	I'm having an affair, Mr. Lolić. Mr. Tošić, I beg you, what I said after my colleague's show, I regret to repeat to you. Was it a replica? It's a replica of a colleague named Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5352	Mr. Lolić, I once read here what happened in Bosnia, if you forgot, I'll bring the document back to read. There was aggression in Bosnia, and we didn't cause war.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5353	My colleague brkati, I have to do the same, so allow me, as chairman of the Rules of Procedure, to intervene. I am, for the third time, asking MPs to choose words and choose tones. If we keep this up, the session won't be possible, we won't be able to bring an end. That's why I once again appeal to an MP to calm his passions. Is there any more replicas or false allegations or anything? It's not a discussion. Okay. Is it a replica or a discussion? Kovačević it a replica or a discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5354	The esteemed chairman, respected members of the presidency, fellow MPs, I really did not intend to discuss it today, but as it came out of the normal discussion framework, that is, these replicas appeared. I'm putting mine on now, this has gone into some political and even clearing up some ten-and-a-half... fifty, we're not coming back before the new era. First, to say the strangest thing today is that in RS, the best doctors, doctors, are understood in these legal and political collapses. It's Mr. Stokić and Mr. Lolić. Secondly I tell you, it's strange that the people who stand for the compensation lists by a thousand, two, three thousand voters, that the majority voter's body in RS salt their minds. Third replica of Mr. Lolić. To whom Lolić told this, when he was a member of the SDS headquarters in '92, '93. I wasn't a member of the municipal board, let alone the chief. Who's he talking to now about the years behind us? These are difficult years and embarrassing years for this nation. They weren't supposed to happen. And then Mr. Lolić took part in it, so much thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5355	The chairman has the right to take a break. Break 10 minutes. I'm asking the club chiefs to come to the college. MPs, please take your seats. [[PAUZA]] Members of the College, they asked the club chiefs to pass on an application to the MPs to reduce passion and, if possible, to reduce the replica as little as possible, with the aim of making the session take place faster and more efficiently. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, when an MP asks for a word, he will receive a word and no one will be denied it. I interrupted the session briefly, the moment Mr. Lolić answered his word. Mr. Lolić, are you staying here looking for a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5356	I just want to say that '92. and '93. I wasn't a member of the board of directors. I was then a member of the RS Army's sanity, treated the wounded, and during the war, I examined 10,000 children, just for the record. I've never been on the SDS General Board, but I was a member of the SDS in '96. I was vice president of the Banja Luka City Committee. Tried a team to make some changes. What we started, right now, Mr. Banjac and the others continue. There's a lot of good results here. I just want to say that with this policy of exclusion we won't get anywhere, and yet I say, I am one of those who will take the name of the entity Republika Srpska, even if I have a problem and I'm sure I won't have any problems and I'll be very proud to have a map of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Republika Srpska, and now it's time for the citizens to show how much they care about it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5357	Thank you. Mr. Tošić, is this a discussion? Here are the replicas and before you were the ones who answered. In the name of the club, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5358	Right now, I'm one of the ones who's a '90s member of the SDS. I'm proud to point that out. So I'm the one who was across the street from this hall in the 1990s, as a representative of the Serb people in the council of municipalities, the municipality of Han Pijesak. If someone here gets their hair on their head on the idea of Serbian, that's his problem. If someone has the frustration of the SDS it's his problem, but he has us who, absolutely, are proud to say that we are. In all the elections so far, now a representative of the MP in three terms at the Republika Srpska Assembly and in three terms here. So some valuables are also owned by people representing this party. About what Mr. Lolić was saying, I will ask from this assembly a stenogram about frustration about something he sees from his corner and his eyes, that's his problem. If we put on the agenda, we now have these round tables and probably scientists and all of us politicians who can participate in the character of the war in BiH, if they already have, let them write, let them sign, let them defend the argument, but in this way, to replicate to me who just said what he felt, when it comes to how it should look like a personal act of BiH. I am a representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe, also in the third term, and I cannot accept some stories about how this or that will prohibit us and that we will not go to integration. We will, and we want to. There's no way he's gonna stand or stand on the inside of a coat of arms, entity, so if he needs a canton, etc. Shall we put all three signs in the heart of our people? I've never resented a Bošnjak before, and today I see the coat of arms of lilies, the flag of lilies,... This is the coat of arms under which we and the anthem under which we are sitting here in BiH and we have accepted it, as soon as we do it with dignity, but I also want to say what you say to the idea that we have the coat of arms, that we have the crown that we have the flag, because we are gentlemen my entity and we are called the Republika Srpska who has its parliament, our own government. We know that we can only introduce ourselves through Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's why it's not clear to me that even we who come from the RS here come back to each other in this way to do some of our little political goals for some sort of courtship and do something to someone. Don't think you want any more good ones who are currently in the Alliance than we are now in opposition, because we've taken steps of seven miles in the first two years, after a hard and bloody war. We are the ones who have struck the foundations of these institutions and set them up, and therefore I do not allow you to belittle us in this way. It doesn't begin by you gentlemen, who first entered this hall of Bosnia and Herzegovina Dayton, it began, its foundations were hit at the Museum in 1997, when it was much harder. And don't honor those MPs, those members of the Council of Ministers, those members of the Presidency who have laid ground somewhere on this one right now, I am also saying to a very successful BiH, and that if Bog lets it be admitted to the Council of Europe in January, which is that step, but he hasn't since the formation of the Alliance, he's been built since '96. For these reasons, I pray for one constructiveity for one respect and for those who were before us and we are passing gentlemen of mine. Everything's fleeting, so don't think you gentlemen are getting into reception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5359	Thank you, colleague Tošić. Who's answering for a word? The replica is gone, the guilty allegations are gone. Please, my colleague Buturović, I know, but before you, a colleague named Malkić came forward before all the replicas and false allegations. Here you go, colleague Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5360	Fellow MPs, honored guests, I went out, first of all, to ask, or ask. Will my amendments be today, given that I have not received any answer, and I have informally received information that they do not meet the business provisions in the direction of...regulatory, according to the ones that they can come. I wanted to make my own point about the law offered. Namely, the one who seemed to me to be discussing and the closest to her, the fellow Members of the Parliament of Zaćiragićka, who, she said, was offered a solution for quite confusing, and I will make a few remarks. Namely, asymmetrical solutions regarding the period of validity of the identity cards for the displaced person, or the exile and the person with the permanent place of residence are asymmetrical. I think it is a kind of discrimination of the exiled, with them having to draw more often ID cards and a single sentence in Article 5.8 says: “In order to consider a returnee a person does not have to return to his home address before the conflict.” Then he's not a returned man. It probably returned the property, but it's not the returnee then. It should be defined that the displaced person has status, has the possibility of staying until the time of return, not some sort of return. Then, I cannot accept a term that says that there was a conflict in BiH, or residence before the conflict. As a persecutor, I ask that a term be placed in the law before persecution, or refugee. It seems to me it would be more appropriate situation and time. Two photographs are required from the displaced person in article 30 below. The technique will likely reach that level, and from the person who has a permanent residence, if required. He'll probably be photographed somewhere along the way and he won't be able to do it. I ask, if there is a possibility that part of these amendments that make the set more precise define certain terms, enter the parliamentary procedure, so that the law, in my view, would have a better quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5361	Thank you. Here you go, pal Buturović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5362	Gentlemen delegates, the Honorable Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the chairman, I will speak a little as a citizen. Without any political colour, I'd say some things. I would not give you any amendments or comment on the amendments, but I would point out the importance and importance of all these laws from the CIPS project, the importance for the state of BiH and its rapid inclusion in the Council of Europe, which is our goal from the moment we gave here... and when we became some first and some, for the third time, members of this assembly. 84 In medicine, we like to share... you know, decide that something happens, it can be cheaper, it can be more efficient, which gives great results. It just always takes something to happen, so we make a quick deal, and we have to bring it in because it happened, and as a feeling, maybe it's not, maybe it's cheating on me, like someone cares that we're always a big hole in Europe, a thorn in someone's eye, so that's why it's happening to us. I don't think so. I want to live in a BiH country where every citizen, a member of every nation, everywhere in this country, will feel free, that they will have all guaranteed rights, have all freedoms, all the security, all those human freedoms that are guaranteed by the old and very famous European conventions. Therefore, here I must point out very important, very important, I stress, which is the urgent implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people and peoples in the entire territory of BiH, and I believe that these things would never happen to us. I support the laws, which are in accordance with European conventions, meaning the laws that originally gave the Council of Ministers, without any amendments, because I'm afraid that it will at least come to us from... to tap into the place if it allows us to step back and forth. So, I think very important, very important, I say without any political connotation, I speak as a citizen, in the interest of all BiH citizens, that we always, however, act European and democratic and in this sense turn our thinking and give support to it, because long ago in Europe we are working, and I would like to be and where I believe and argue and most of us both think where we are and long ago, and not wait ten years. How long is tomorrow to make us feel better?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5363	Thank you very much, fellow Butorović. Is anyone else answering for a word? You can ask for a break in half an hour. Thank you very much. Point 1. Is anyone answering for a word? If we don't go to the vote, that's to make a statement on the amendments. Here you go. A colleague of Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5364	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the Presidency, I will first say that I accept everything that is said today on behalf of my club here, when it comes to this set of laws before us and in this first part of my presentation that will be brief. I will be specific, and in this second part, I will forget that I am an MP and I will speak as a citizen, who observes all these phenomena and processes related to our parliamentary work and the establishment of BiH at all. The proposed text of the law, which was at first reading yesterday, is today in the procedure we call second reading. All those alternatives that were in the draft today we see them as amendments. I was talking yesterday about focusing on a universal principle, which will ensure that European standards are incorporated into the existing legal acts today. Unfortunately, that's missing. In my opinion, any legal act adopted in this parliament should be at the benefit of all 85 peoples and citizens of BiH and functioning by the normal state. Powering the entity, and minimising the state, is making it even more difficult for both the difficult and complex political and economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All of this prolongs agony and uncertainty. No property laws are implemented, OHR decisions are implemented or not implemented very little, ombudsmen's recommendations are received for knowledge and nothing more. Actually, he's on stage now, for example. in RS paperwork, which their official authorities are bringing, but not implemented. So all of this is paper-covered and in accordance with the positive legal regulations, but nothing's going on live. Because of all this, and many other inconveniences and humiliations of the exiles, I am not prepared to accept any of these amendments or laws as a whole, which make it impossible for what should function as BiH. I have to say in the end, if we follow all the legal regulations that we've passed to this day, it's all on some kind of compromise that's good, but I mean when it comes to internal communication in this country of BiH, then it's lagging out, mostly those legal acts don't have any effective force and some effect, at least I haven't noticed it, and neither have they noticed, which are the most endangered, when it comes to implementing the Anex VII Dayton Peace Agreement. I personally experienced it on my own example, so I thought it was an example for myself. I was on my way later, and I saw that this was one process, which, unfortunately, is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5365	Thank you, too. No Niko answered for the hearing. So, we're closing the debate, we're going to the voting act. We have amendments, my colleague Avdić and I have consulted, amendments submitted by fellow MP Abdurahman Malkić on 24.10. did not comply with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 94. and cannot be in the procedure. Three amendments were given at the session today. I read, Mr. Tošić, Mr. Mijatović and Mr. Banjac. Amendments shall be made in accordance with Article 94(3) and shall be made known to the House. We have amendments, given by PDP MPs' clubs, SNS, SNSD, DSP, SPS, SDP MPs' club, the Party for BiH club, and they are in line with Article 94. and we need to declare them. Gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure, we are pleading according to the order of the members. So that's where we start from the amendment to Article 6. The amendment to Article 6, we have an amendment they filed yesterday. There's no reason, Mr. Banjac, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5366	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5367	Thank you very much, colleague Banjac, your proposal is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, as well as the way I talked about it. Your proposal facilitates the act of voting and there is no 86 reason not to accept your good idea. Then I suggest we go to the vote. I'll go according to how the amendments are invested, because that's the way, if I understand you correctly. So, we have the amendments that the MPs' club gave me not to read, these three MPs' clubs. Please let us be clear about the amendment first. Amendment and who's in favour of amendment I? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? I'm asking the Service to work more easily in the future, at the same time follow the entity vote, so we don't vote again. I think that's possible, but this time, of the 29 MPs, 17 for – 12 against – 29 - we will need an entity vote. Who is from the Federation of BiH for the proposed amendment? Thank you. Who is from the RS for the proposed amendment? Thank you. Members of the Federation of BiH 12 for – from RS 5 for. The amendment has been passed. We're going to vote on Amendment II. Is that what we agreed on, this procedure? Let's do it in that order. I'm asking the Service to monitor the entity's vote at the same time, so we don't repeat the vote, maybe a little slower if you need time. Hold it a little longer, please. Let's just keep it simple so we don't vote again. This is possible according to the Rules of Procedure. It's in line with the Rules of Procedure, believe me, it just makes it easier not to waste time, and the Service can also see entity voting at the same time. If there is a misunderstanding, we will repeat the vote or if there are objections. Amendment II Who is for Amendment II? Thank you. Who's against Amendment II? Who's being held back? Thank you. Give the results of the vote. I ask the MPs not to vote differently. So, out of 29 MPs for 17 – against 12, we have to go to an entity vote. Who is from the RS for Amendment II? Who is from the Federation of BiH for Amendment II? Thank you. I find Amendment II has become an integral part of the bill. Didn't I say that? From the Federation of BiH 12 for RS 5. I thought the MPs were following the vote. Amendment III Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Niko. I'd like the results of the vote. We won't be able to go faster, we'll have to take the entity vote, because we lack the equipment. I use this as an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to indicate that this assembly needs electronic equipment. Thank you, Mr. brkati, for your well-intentioned suggestion. Please let us vote entityally. 87 Who is from the Federation of BiH for Amendment III? From RS who's in favour? Thank you. The score's the same for the third time. 12 from the Federation for RS - 5 for. Amendment IV Who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please plead with the RS who's in favour? I'm asking the Federation MPs to and if they don't have a new ID? Thank you. From the Federation of BiH who's in favour? Of the 29 MPs who voted 17 – against 7 – abstention 4. From the Federation of BiH 12 for – from RS for 5. So the amendment was adopted. Amendment V Who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's in favour of the RS? I ask the MPs to follow the session. Present 29 – for 17 – versus 10 abstentions 2. From the Federation of BiH 12 for – from RS 5 for. I find that Amendment V has been adopted. Amendment VI Who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's from RS for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation for? I'll repeat the results. They're a little different. Vote 29 – for 17 – v 8 – abstention 3. From Federation of BiH 12 for RS 5 for. Therefore, the amendment was adopted, we move on. Amendment VII Who's in favour? Who's the Brk? Who's being held back? Who's for the Federation of BiH? Who's in favour of the RS? Of the 29 Messengers - 17 for – 12 against. From the Federation of BiH 12 MPs for – from RS 5 MPs for. The amendment has been passed. amandman vi Who is for Amendment VIII? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you. Who's from RS for? Thank you. 88 vote results are next. 29 MPs were present – 14 against 12 – abstentions of 3 MPs. That's the part where he passed. According to the Federation of BiH, nine RS MPs for 5. To pass the amendment, it is necessary for 10 MPs from the Federation of BiH to vote. Therefore, the amendment has not passed. He's going for a match. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Please, we have more amendments. We must vote on the amendments submitted by Ambassador Banjac. So I don't think I should repeat the text of the amendment. The amendment submitted by Ambassador Mirko Banjac. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? The results of the vote. Of the 29 MPs 13 for – against 16 amendments not accepted, did not receive the majority. The amendment submitted by the MP Mr. Mijatović. Please let us know who's in. Who's against it? Who's being held back? The results of the vote, as just before, but I am obliged to announce. Of the 29 messengers - 13 for – 16 against. I find Mr. Mijatović's amendment not accepted. Mr. Momir Tošić's amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? No Niko's been held back. Same result of the vote. Of the 29 MPs – 13 for – against 16, the amendment was not adopted accordingly. With this, we exhausted the vote on amendments. Break 10 minutes. We voted on the amendments, followed by a statement on the text of the law. [[PAUZA]] I ask the messengers to plead. Who's up for the proposed law? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'm asking for an entity vote. Who is from the Federation of BiH for the proposed law? Who is from the RS for the proposed law? Of the 29 MPs – for 17 – against 6 abstentions 6. Federation of BiH for 12 – RS 5 for. The law passed by a narrow majority. We're moving to two points of the agenda. Ad.2. Proposal for a Central Recording and Data Exchange Act – Second Reading Who Answers for a Word? No Niko's answering for a word. At first, it was finished. I ask the PDP Club, the SNSD... to declare whether it remains with the amendments submitted. Thank you. We have 89 amendments that have been submitted by three clubs to the Central Record and Data Exchange Bill. We're moving on to an act of voting. Who's for Amendment I? Who's against it? Who's being held back? We have to go to an entity vote. Who's from the RS for, please follow the MPs? Thank you. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Results for Amendment I. 27 MPs were present and voting. Two MPs are gone, not in the O.R. For 16 – versus 6 – abstention 5. From the Federation of BiH 12 for – from RS for 5 amendments I was adopted. Amendment II. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's from RS for? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? The results of the vote. Voted by 28 MPs, meanwhile, the MP returned to the hall – 17 – against 6 abstentions 5. From the Federation of BiH for 12 – from RS for 5.. I konstatuj Amendment II adopted. Amendment III Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's in favour of the RS? Who's for the Federation of BiH? The results of the vote. Of the 28 MPs present – for 17 – against 5 – from the Federation of BiH 12 MPs for – from RS 5 MPs for. The amendment has been passed. Amendment IV Which of the MPs is in favour? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's from RS for? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? The results of the vote. 28 MPs present – for 17 – against 6 – abstention 5. From the Federation of BiH 12 for – from Republika Srpska 5 for. Amendment IV has been adopted. Amendment V Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's for the Federation of BiH? Who's in favour of the RS? Of the 28 MPs, 17 voted in favour – 6 versus – 5 abstentions. By entities. 12 MPs from the Federation of BiH voted in favour – from Republika Srpska 5 MPs. Amendment V has been adopted. 90 Please state on Amendment VI Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Which one of the RS? Who's for the Federation of BiH? Mr. Bjelobrk's vote is over. I ask the MPs to follow the results of the vote, that it would not be disputed, although, I could record it on the board, because they are the same results, but good. Of the 28 MPs – 17 for – against 6 – abstention 5. 12 MPs from the Federation of BiH for – 5 MPs from RS for. The amendment has been passed. Amendment VII Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's being held back? From RS who's in favour? Thank you. Federation of BiH who's in favour? The results of the vote. Present 28 – for 17- versus 6 – abstention 5. By entities. Federation of BiH for 12 – RS for 5. The amendment has been passed. Amendment VIII Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's in favour of the RS? Who's for the Federation of BiH? I'd like some results. The results of the vote, present 28 – for 17 – v 6 – abstention 5. Federation of BiH for 12 – RS for 5. The amendment has been passed. Amendment IX Who's in? Who's against it? I ask the messengers to follow. Who's being held back? Who's from RS for? Who's for the Federation of BiH? The results of the vote. A total of 28 present – for 17 – against 6 – abstentioned 5 MPs. By entities. Federation of BiH for 12 – Republika Srpska for 5. The amendment has been passed. Amendment X Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's in favour of the RS? 91 Who's for the Federation of BiH? The result of the vote. 28 present – for 17 – against 6 – abstention 5. By entities. Federations of BiH – for 12 – Republika Srpska for 5. Amendment X has been adopted. This exhausted the vote on amendments. Gentlemen, may we please state who is in favour of the proposed central record and data exchange law? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's for the Federation of BiH? Who's in favour of the RS? The results of the vote on the law. 28 MPs present – for 17 – against 6 – abstention 5. By entities. Federation of BiH for 12 – RS for 5.. I konstatuj that the law has been passed. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. Proposal for a law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens Who answers for a word? No Niko's answering for a word. It's a closed debate. Gentlemen, in the law of residence and residence of citizens, we have amendments submitted by Mr Abdurahman Malkić 24. are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we do not declare them. We've got the amendments he's filed, so I'd like to ask the SDS Club, Mr. Banjac. If you need a break. All right, here you go. A five-minute break. I'd like the head of the SDS Club, Mr. Mirko Banjac. [[PAUZA]] Are you staying with the amendments you've submitted? Thank you. We're going to the voting process. We have two groups of amendments. That, Mr. Banjac, you may make a business remark, but if you agree with it as an amendment promoter, then we can go for it. Thank you for your cooperation and cooperation. Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. Amendments to the Bill's proposal to the residence and residence of BiH citizens – Mr Mirko Banjac's amendment. I don't need to read the amendments, Mr. Banjac suggested he agrees that we vote right away. Who's for Mr. Banjac's amendment? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - no one is abstentioned. Of the 28 MPs, 12 voted against 16. The amendments didn't get the necessary majority. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5368	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5369	Thank you, Mr. Banjac, for your correct cooperation and constructive suggestions. I'm asking the MPs' clubs who have proposed these amendments, do they agree with this proposal? Can we, gentlemen, vote like that? Are there any objections to this way of voting? There isn't. Amendments to the Bill on residence and residence of BiH Citizens amandman ja will read, Amendment II Amendment III Amendment IV Amendment V Please, who is for? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's in favour of the RS? I ask the MPs to vote, officials struggle with those who wave ballots. Thank you. Who's for the Federation of BiH? The results of the vote, amendments – present 28 – for 22 – against 6. By entities. Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 12 – Republika Srpska for 8.. I konstatuj the amendments have been adopted. Please, gentlemen, the vote on amendments has been concluded to move to a vote on the law on the residence and residence of citizens of BiH. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Who's in favour of the RS? Obviously, we need an entity ID card. Who's for the Federation of BiH? I ask the MPs to concentrate on which they are from. Of course, Mr. Bjelobrk. At present 28 – for 22 – against 6. Federation of BiH for 12 – RS for 8.. I konstatuj that the law has been passed. Ad.4.Law on Single Birth, also second reading We have amendments. I ask the club with the longest name in this assembly to declare whether it remains with the amendments. Thank you very much. We have amendments that have been submitted by three clubs. You have them in front of you. Dom agrees that we apply 93 methodologies here as well as in the previous vote. Any objections? I find that no one has any objections. Please make a statement. I'll do it again. Amendment I Amendment II Amendment III Amendment IV Amendment V Who is for? I'm asking the MPs to hold out a little longer. To keep the concentration. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? - Nobody. Who's from Republika Srpska for? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? I ask the MPs for a little more attention and concentration – 28 present – for 22 – against 6. By entities. Federation of BiH for 12 – RS for 9. I konstatuj the amendments have been adopted. Gentlemen, this is the final vote on amendments to the Proposal for a Single Parent Number Law. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's in favor of the Proposal for a Single Parent Code? Who's against it? Who's from the Republic of Srkpska for? Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Results of voting of the single birth number law. At present 28 – for 22 – against 6. By entities. Federation of BiH for 12 – Republika Srpska for 10. I find that the Single Parent Number Act has been passed. Ad.5. Request to consider the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data by emergency procedure We have received a proposal from the Council of Ministers, to refer this to Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Which means we can approach the vote immediately today and there are no amendments there. In order to avoid confusion, this happened with today's agreement between the MPs' clubs. I ask the MPs to follow the course so there will be no misunderstanding and I ask Mr. Svetozar Mihajlović to take the word and explain the text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5370	Dear Members, today we have had consultations with the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. We have also come to an agreement with the new text of the law, which we have agreed and proposed to you to install into the new text of the law, which has been adopted, all of these, practically proposals agreed on by the Commission and adopted by the Council of Ministers. You've received suggestions, practically which are newspapers in the new law. I don't know if there's any need to read it to you. In Article 2, Article 3, Article 5, Article 19(3), Article 5(5), Article 5(6), Article 23 and Article 25. If there's any need, I'll read it. If there's no need, thank you. You've got the law before. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5371	We'll make a statement in a row. Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, do you have any questions for the Secretary of Resort? Mr. Tošić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5372	The name of the SDS Club since all the amendments by our president, Mr. Banjac, have been accepted, we will vote unanimously for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5373	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. This all shows that the preparations for this were very constructive. I must say that we owe thanks to all the club chiefs who did indeed the great effort and the Council of Ministers so that this law could be passed under Article 105. I am asking the President of the Commission, Mr. Osman Brk, and I must say that the Commission has made every effort to reach this point. There you go, palbrkati Here you go. I thanked all the club bosses. kolega Banjac, I commended all the club chiefs. Thank you very much. I'd like to ask my colleague brkati to get both time and attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5374	I thank the chairman, I am obliged to tell you the Commission's report on how this happened, to put it on the agenda in this way, but it will be a little clearer to you when you read this report. I've read it a lot, but because of the stenogram, I'll read it anyway. The Committee on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, held at the 8th session on 2 October, discussed the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. The Commission then took the view that it is necessary to pass the law. In addition, it is expressed the opinion that the proposed law does not reflect with its content the goal that is to be achieved. The text of the law is made up of several objections, more ambiguities than certain provisions. In addition, the Komsija unanimously decided to return the proposal to the Proposer, in order to remove ambiguities and to make changes in certain provisions. For these reasons, the Commission did not consider amendments submitted by Mr Mirko Banjac to the draft law at the 8th session. On 25 October, the Commission held its 9th session, which was attended by six members of the Commission as well as representatives of the legislator. At the meeting of the Commission, the Commission reconsidered the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data after it had received additions and amendments to certain provisions of the proposal for a law from the Council of Ministers. Following the debate, the Commission decided to submit amendments submitted and considered as an integral part of the proposal for a law and adopted the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data with supplements, amendments, which became an integral part of the proposal for a law as follows. It is now, not to read what Mr. Mihajlović has already expressed here with his indiscretion here. However, I must say, indeed, that in the College, after we agreed on all this, it was a very constructive approach for all the members of the College, so 95, perhaps Mr Mirko Banjac, rightly says that his credit, and Mr Grabovac Miro-Titan-Titan says it is his and perhaps another member of the College can say the same thing. I think it's important that we've made a consensus here and that this can work that way. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5375	Thank you, colleague brkati, the members of the College are modest and highlight the contribution of others. We here, if there are any participants in the debate yet. No, I don't. According to the Poslvonik, we are obliged to decide on the request after the debate. Whether a request by the Council of Ministers is accepted to follow Article 105. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Twenty-eight present. Gentlemen of the Parliament took place for 28. This is all evidence of how well we can do, when there is a willingness to agree and, indeed, this is the result of the Commission's work and the work of club chiefs. Let me not mention anyone by name, but knowing who made the highest contribution to the work of the College is too much to say. Thank you. We need to make a statement about the text of the law if there is no debate. Is there a debate? The debate can be conducted, but there are no amendments. Would you like to discuss your colleague, Banjac? Here's your friend, Banjac. If we're wrong, we'll make it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5376	Of course, when it comes to protecting people, I've always contributed, and this time it's happened. Let me tell you, I think it's procedural now that we're looking for an extension of the agenda and then we're voting on the text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5377	Thank you, comrade Banjac. I have consulted the Secretary of the House today on this issue and I have received information that, according to Article 105. Let's go this way. I'll read what's in article 105. The requirements of the previous point shall be submitted directly to the House chair at its first next session. The House will decide on the request after the debate. We held the debate and made known the request of the Council of Ministers. Isn't that right, Mr. Banjac? When a proper debate is held on this request, it will be put to the vote. If adopted, I repeat, the House will proceed directly with the debate and vote on the bill's proposal. Mr. Banjac, I don't think it's controversial, and I thank you for the cooperation and assistance you've done today in the work of the College and in the work of the House, but it's obvious that it says it's going directly. Is anyone answering for a word? We have a debate about the text of the law. Are there any who want to talk about the text of the law? Here you go, colleague Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5378	96 I apologize, I just want to remove my vague dilemma to ask myself. The component of the text is the Commission's report or what we have received from the Council ofminsitarians.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5379	Thank you. Is there? Are you satisfied with the answer, Mr. Malkić? Thank you very much. Any more questions, any participants in the debate. As I can see, there isn't. We're closing the debate. I ask the messengers to plead. Who's for the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data by emergency procedure? Who's in? Mr. Malkić, are you in or out? Who's against it? Mr. Malkić, you were satisfied with the answer, but it's fine. Who's being held back? I ask the MPs to remain in place. We still have work to do. Don't leave the O.R. Of the 28 MPs voted 26 – against 1 – abstention 1. There's no need to vote on entities. I find that the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data has been adopted. Thank you very much. kolega Grabovac, please, just two minutes. You'll get your word. Gentlemen, we have a little problem. I suggest we settle this tonight. Obviously, there is a difference in the texts of the laws adopted by the House of Peoples and the laws adopted by the House of Representatives. In that case, Article 99 shall apply. Rules of Procedure. I'll remind you. If the text they bring home is not identical, the chairman will inform the House of Peoples, of course he will, in order to adopt a joint committee made up of three members from each home. I suggest, so we don't waste time forming our three-member committee tonight. I'd like the club heads to agree, not to go to a big debate. I'll take a break. I'm asking the club chiefs to make a deal. He can't do college. The college appears in a completely different function, and don't make it a College, it's not in line with the Business. We'll take 10 minutes off. It's 10 minutes enough for the club bosses to make a deal. Five minutes, and before that, a fellow Grabovac. Here's a colleague of the Grabovac. You can agree now, but to follow a fellow Grabovac, this is a very important question what a fellow Grabovac has been asking for. I'm begging you. I'm asking the MPs to follow, and I think what my colleague Grabovac is about to bring out is very important. MIRO
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5380	I thank Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday our colleague, Mr. Vukić, asked a representative question concerning the current process of the picket group. Among the groups are people who are also representatives here at the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. Accordingly, I am referring to Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure and to the article that I would not read about the protection and immunity of MPs, which you have on this identity card and immunity and Article 36(i) where it speaks of which procedure it is necessary to remove any immunity, and this suggests that this is considered by the motion to withdraw immunity in relation to this 97 propose an appropriate decision. So, whoever wants to process whoever has, who's a representative and who's got a representative immunity, has to send a motion to remove that immunity, then the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so that I don't explain it, better Mr. Banjac knows than I do how the procedure goes to remove that immunity. For that reason, for principle reasons, I suggest this House of Representatives to bring or to appeal or to reach a conclusion or I don't know in which form you can do it, to ask that all those who have immunity, or who are advocates that they can't be detained, before removing immunity, or whether those who, if there are grounds for such a thing, are then asked to request and to remove immunity, and then only to go into the process, because it can happen to any of us here. Therefore, for principled reasons, I think we should ask one appeal, or conclusion or request of this home to the authorities to stop doing so, or to act in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5381	Thank you, comrade Grabovac. I think there's a consensus on this, and I can immediately suggest what kind of request the House of Representatives might make if you agree. Mr. Bogić, there's no problem. We, of course, cannot conclude that laws should be applied. That's quite clear. According to the information we have, there's no respect for the law in this case. You know why MPs have immunity, it's all over the world. This is not disputed at all, nor is it disputed that any MP from the House of Representatives must be applied in such a way as to respect the Constitution, the Law or the Rules of Procedure and to ensure the dignity and dignity of each MP, as this, gentlemen, preserves the dignity and dignity of this House and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we can, if you agree, if it isn't slow, and I don't think it's to realize that the House, the House of Representatives requires the competent institutions to respect the Constitution, the Law and regulations both in this and in any other case. Are there any objections to this attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5382	He speaks from the place, and it is not heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5383	Thank you. We ask that respect be respected, that all BiH institutions respect the laws and regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's nothing controversial. We are obliged to protect the rule of law and the rule of law. Thank you very much. It's a little break now. Please don't part with me. Five minutes. Do we have a deal? We didn't make a list, five minutes to get the club bosses to agree. Please, gentlemen, make a deal. I implore the MPs to enter the O.R. and continue our work and finish our work. I ask the MPs to enter the O.R., the session is not over. Take it easy, Mr. Malkić, just so the MPs can take their seats. Please, gentlemen, I have received information that agreement has been reached on the following MPs that the committee members should be the next MPs, Mr Sead Avdić, Mr Željko Bilbija and Mr Marko Amidžić. Any other suggestions? If not, I'm putting the motion to a vote. 98 Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Entire vote. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's from RS for? The results of the vote. Of the 27 present – 21 for – versus 1 – abstention 5. Entire vote. By entities, the Federation of BiH for 15 – Republika Srpska for 6.. I konstatuj that the proposed composition of the Commission has been adopted. Ambassador Malkić asked for another minute's attention. Here you go, colleague Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5384	I apologize for taking your time. I mean, I want to say, I consider it necessary to say the following. In Rome, in fact, the so - called so - called Rome was adopted. The Roman rules according to the Constitution of redecorating war criminals. Namely, The Hague tribunal, the International Tribunal in The Hague, has made it possible for local law enforcement authorities to prosecute certain persons, if they have taken the necessary steps in accordance with the Roman rules of the Court, then we are missing the possibility of taking the protection of immunity from war criminals, regardless of what our colleague is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-10-24-0.u5385	Thank you very much for one correction, I beg you, all those who are lawyers and know that someone may be accused, suspected, accused and that only the court can determine that qualification that you used and I don't think it's disputed. Thank you, Mr. Malkić, for your contribution. The seat is over. Thank you for your attention. Please, the session that was scheduled for November 6th and 7th will not be held, because the House of Peoples is unable to organise a joint session, we will agree. So it's neither October 31st nor October 6th nor 7. You'll get a call for a session. Goodbye. The session was completed at 7:10 p.m.
