ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4216	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 10th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, chaired by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE and representatives of the EU, representatives of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, representatives of the EU Monitoring Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of other international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, were invited to attend the meeting. Representatives of public information were also invited. I warmly welcome and thank all the representatives for participating in the work of this high house, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also find that there are 36 members of the House present. In this regard, we have a quorum for the full decision-making and functioning and work of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before crossing and proposing the agenda, I am free to, as a previous question, because MP Dr Mirza Kuršljugić has been replaced by the OSC's decision with a new candidate, with the candidate who was next on the list by the number of votes in Election 3. It's Mašić Damir. I would ask the new MP Mašić Damir to take an oath. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties I am entrusted with, respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. I thank and welcome our new MP, Mr Damir Mašić, and I wish Dr Mirza Kuršljugić much success in his new duties and function, thanks for what he did at the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before the move to the agenda, I would like to present one proposal to the College, the conclusion of the Extended College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly and 2 June, which is that, just before the meeting was held this morning, we received an urgent opinion from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which discussed the phase in which Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law was discussed, and concluded that, according to a large number of amendments, more than 108, of which the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted 18 amendments, and that consolidated text had already been delivered to Members of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 6 June. Discussing the emerging situation and the large number of amendments that came between the two sessions. Discussing the effectiveness and what the Constitutional and Legal Commission did and the consolidated text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, the Council of Ministers proposed this consolidated text as a new text of the Electoral Law and requested that it be considered in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. At an extended college of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, following a wider debate, the statements of the MPs' clubs, it is unanimous to give MPs and representative clubs the opportunity to carry out further consultations, to check in full the consolidated text that we have received again today, in line with the amendments that have been incorporated by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And in that context, the extension of the College is to give a break for the next two hours. The extended college is invited to meet again at 12:30. [[pause 2 hours]] I would like to suggest that we continue the 10th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to this necessary break served by parliamentary clubs, the Extended College, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I narrow down the college to carry out a necessary part of the consultations and the consensus that came from the latest events, above all from the urgent meeting of the Council of Ministers and the attempt to re-establish a full political consensus, if it can be called on a fundamental conclusion called the Election Law. So for today's agenda we've only predicted one item on the agenda that's Ad. 1. Consideration and adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law In this sense, we move on to the agenda. We have 39 MPs in the O.R. The absence was announced only by an MP, Mr Amor Mašović, and two MPs are currently absent. However, they will join during the session. We also have a quorum for the full decision-making and consideration of the electoral law that is in session today. In terms of the implementation of the agenda we are in the meantime from the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The agenda has been agreed by the enlarged College and is considered adopted in this context. There's no need to vote on the agenda. The extended college agreed on the agenda, and when it agreed on the agenda, there was no more changes and additions to that agenda. So we're not voting on the agenda. That is why we agreed that this would be just one item of the agenda, given the importance and problems that are being discussed today at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it's no problem, we'll have a session in 7 to 10 days and all that's necessary to realize and prepare, if, please... I mean, we agreed, the extended college agreed on the agenda and in this context there are no changes to the 3 agenda. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. I will just have a few, simply necessary notes, which is that in the meantime, since the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which adopted 18 amendments, we have received a consolidated text on 6 June of this current year with amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission and which have become an integral part of the text of the proposal for an electoral law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of the 103 amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, 18 amendments were adopted. The rest of these amendments. I'm sorry. Article 51, however, gives, unless proposed amendments to the agenda, the agenda is considered adopted by the House. However, we have adopted the agenda at the Extended College, if it is necessary to intervene with MP Vilić, then there is no problem, we will not stop the intervention. Here you go. ... my colleagues agreed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4218	I welcome a member of the Presidency, gentlemen of the chairmanship, gentlemen of the Ministers, I did not go out for my will, but came out here to express the position of the SDA's Club of Representatives. The SDA Club respects the importance of the agenda, and the fact that there is only one item on the agenda today, and that is the Election Law. But the events surrounding the assignment of a mobile phone license to a third operator require that a special point be addressed at today's session. Our attitude. It is a threat to the sovereignty and robbery of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the sale of resources to invaluableness. According to our information, contrary to the provisions of the Telecommunications Act, no special regulatory agency has been established in the area of telecommunications, but the decision of the High Representative associated with the Independent Commission for Media, whose head you well know is a stranger. The Council of Ministers has not responded to this decision. It also did not respond to the terms of the tender. And that is why we believe that this should be included in the agenda within which the issues and responsibilities of the Council of Ministers would be discussed. So we propose to extend the agenda with a debate on the assignment of a mobile phone license to a third operator. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4219	I would like to thank Ambassador Vilić. The College and a number of MPs responded before this session have prepared a statement by the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina on this and in this context, if MP Vilić can be satisfied with this compromise. We haven't forgotten this current problem. Believe me, we are faced with him and in this context a point that must be prepared from the aspect of what you were talking about is absolutely impossible to put on the agenda today. I propose that under the 2nd current questions we can read a statement that we have prepared and that this is the first step and first answer of this Parliament from the aspect of usurpation and simple behaviour of the Regulatory Agency. I think that would be enough of this home today after considering and adopting the Electoral Law. Can we agree on that? poslanik Vilić. Okay. Thank you. Can we go this way with the realization of the agenda? Thank you. Not to vote, simply, means the Electoral Law and the 2nd current issues in terms of the statement we have prepared. Thank you. We can go and move on to these introductory notes around point one. I repeat once again of 103 amendments that came to the parliamentary procedure in the commission phase of the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopted 18 amendments, which became an integral part of the text, the consolidated text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Election Law, the proposal for an election law, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Afterwards, we tried to establish a full degree of understanding and political consensus from the aspect of inability and to consider, in a parliamentary procedure and an effective parliamentary life, over 90 amendments in full, adopt and simply vote at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In these efforts to find a political consensus, we met at an extended college this morning for a high degree of understanding and many political parties gave up their amendments. I find that there are still 8 amendments left in the parliamentary procedure and put into the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which we have not been able to agree on in the Expansive College, and which we have proposed and narrowly proposed to the College, to be discussed in this parliamentary procedure at the House of Representatives, and at the same time we expect the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission from the aspect of the constitutionality and legality of these amendments, which are simply agreed to go to the Extended College of the Representatives' House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Afterwards, by considering Article 94a and b, he established a consensus and believes that these eight amendments should be presented to the public and discussed and voted on in the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is certain that we will also get the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee in this context that is our position for today's session. I note that we also received a letter from the Council of Europe. Yesterday, the press conference for Mr. Švimer and the Council of Europe expected today to allow the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's adoption of the Electoral Law to include Bosnia and Herzegovina in European integration and to take a major step forward in terms of empowerment, territorial and integrity and international legal subjectivity in Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus allow for a higher degree of democratisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in this context, expect a positive outcome and meetings of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These were the necessary notes that I did not express everything we did and did on our first reading by adopting the basic principles on which the Electoral Law should be based. And in that context, the first reading with success has passed. I note that there have been attempts, i.e. efforts by the Council of Ministers, to change the system, i.e. the way in which the procedures and the examinations and adoptions of the Election Law were discussed and we remain, we extended the College in a unique position. We are considering the Election Act under Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank the Council of Ministers for their efforts and we have a completely relaxing atmosphere and simply open access to the Council of Ministers from the aspect of the election law's consideration and adoption. So we've got 8 amendments in front of us that you've got in sentimental form today on the parliamentary benches. With us already well aware of these amendments and in this context, here is to begin by opening a debate under the Election Law on amendments that have arisen as a result of high attention and valuable efforts by political parties and parties that many have given up on their amendments, there are 8 left in the parliamentary procedure. And I would ask the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to state the position of the Constitutional-First Commission on these eight amendments. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4220	Dear gentlemen, honored guests, on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, first I would like to tell you, you may know this, but it will not be a waste that the Constitutional and Legal Commission does not have the authority to discuss amendments submitted in accordance with Article 94(1) and (2). We've only come to two conclusions on these amendments today. The first conclusion that amendments which have not passed the commission phase can only be made to this House if they meet the conditions laid down in Article 94(1), and that view refers to such amendments being required to refute the amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Only, adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. It means that these amendments are being refuted and, of course, in accordance with the procedure they were delivered in the time period as indicated in the Rules of Procedure. The second Constitutional and Legal Commission has reached a second conclusion by which the amendments tabled on time and agreed to Article 94(2) should also be addressed today to a statement in this parliament. There has been a lot of dilemma whether the Constitutional and Legal Commission has such a right to stop a plea if some of the proposed amendments do not comply with the Constitution. No, we're giving an opinion, gentlemen, we're not stopping anyone's amendments, and it needs to be respected. In the end, it is our responsibility as MPs to think carefully and express the final court by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4221	I thank the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Ambassador Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4222	Dear Members of the Parliament, a respected member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, respected ministers, honored guests, I sincerely hope today that we will adopt the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we will meet the only condition for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe and that we will already be 44 members of the Council of Europe in September. The SDP, its programme orientation, does not fully respond to the proposed electoral law. That is why we have had many amendments, we have had many objections to the proposed electoral law, but we have expressed our great co-operation and willingness to adopt the Election Law, to come together to compromise and, subsequently, after being admitted to the Council of Europe, through the institutions of the Council of Europe, to seek the achievement and protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is it that does not correspond to the SDP and have proposed to change the choice of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, the election of the president and vice president of the Federation, the president and vice president of Republika Srpska, the election of the House of Peoples of the Federation, the election of the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The multiethnic party does not respond to the multi-member electoral units, preferential voting and open lists, but we are ready in the interest of common interest to accept all this and to adopt the Electoral Law. Some of our amendments have been accepted since the Constitutional Court decisions on the contitivity of the people are final and binding, we have suggested that 6 everywhere where we do not have a consensus of the largest number of political parties to transpose all these provisions into final and transitional provisions and that until the final solution and implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court elections, the rules and regulations of the 98th PIC apply to the elections. Since part of our amendments in this regard have been accepted, and concerns the House of Peoples of the Federation, Vice Presidents and Presidents of the Federation, President and Vice President of Republika Srpska, I will propose three amendments, from others, to give up. The first election of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I propose that it also be transferred to the transitional and final provisions for the simple reason that the Federation House of Peoples of 10 delegates is elected to the House of Peoples of the Federation, 5 delegates from Republika Srpska, and the entity's constitution is in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's where we found the constitutional basis to transfer it, and to apply the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission. Secondly, we know that the electoral law cannot be contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore we are aware that it is not possible to change the Constitution at this time, because we would need 2/3 of the MPs and the election of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be changed. But we wanted to make our contribution and propose an amendment to elect members of the Bureau in accordance with the Constitution, but to reconcile, above all, declarations, protocols and resolutions on human rights and fundamental freedoms, that members of the Presidency have responsibility towards voters from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. If Article 8.1 changes and we propose that he should have the right to run for the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the candidate is obliged to pass through qualifications. The qualifications on candidates for members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, both Bošnjak and Hrvat from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Srbin, say voters in such a way that each vote can cast a single vote for the Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin candidates. Two Bosniak and Croatian candidates from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and two Serbian candidates from Republika Srpska who get the most votes become qualified candidates to elect members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. And Article 8.2. members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency who are directly elected from the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one Bošnjak and one Hrvat, among qualified candidates, are elected by voters registered to vote in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the voter registered to vote in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina can vote either for the Bošnjak, whether for the Hrvat, but not for both candidates. A Bosniak and Croatian candidate has been elected who receives the highest number of votes among candidates from the same constituent people. A member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency who is directly elected from Republika Srpska's territory, one Srbin among qualified candidates is elected by voters registered to vote in Republika Srpska. The chosen candidate who gets the highest number of votes. And the third amendment. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4223	poslanik Bogićević, we have amendments ahead of us in writing. In short lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4224	All right. Shortest. It refers to a large number of refugees and people who have not yet returned to their homes. We suggest. It means in Article 29. to add the text: - The person who reported her stay in the second municipality, which uses the property, i.e. the apartment to which she escaped or displaced person applied for return, can register for elections only in the municipality in which she is resident according to the latest census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Madam Chairman, I ask Parliament to plead on these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4225	He thanks Ambassador Bogićević, who has partly overstepped my intervention, which is in parliamentary procedure. Article 104 contains two equal laws. One law came as a proposal from the Council of Ministers, and another law came as a proposal from MPs, or vice-president Mariofil Ljubić. I am obliged to ask if anyone in front of these legislators has anything to say before normal entry into a detailed debate on amendments. The Council of Ministers and here's HDZ.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4226	Gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I would like one intervention when it comes to this, given that we have heard the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the amendments that are currently on the table and the statement of the chairman that one part has given up on the amendment. We will discuss these amendments here, or we will decide whether he has given up or not. Nobody gave up. So all the amendments that have been made in accordance with Article 94(2) are in the procedure. However, these amendments, which we are talking about not 8 but 11 amendments, are controversial when it comes to their constitutional foundation. The Constitutional and Legal Commission therefore gave its opinion and it is very important that the College, since these amendments have not passed the procedure when it comes to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, does not refer to amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. They may only go on the principle of Article 94(3) and they shall require a declaration, whether or not to accept the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4227	The college has declared that it accepts.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4228	Well, then we have another procedure when it comes to point 3. A and B. J. would like an explanation when it comes to whether they really align any of these proposals, or something fundamentally changing. When it comes to A and B. So they're the only ones under those conditions that can be considered. 8 When it comes to amendments submitted by the SDP, just when it comes to a member of the Presidency and the House of Peoples, I think they are also in college with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina has clearly prescribed the selection of members of the Presidency and the election of the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't understand that, and I don't know what does point A and B of Article 94(3) apply to what they do so they can go into the procedure for them to be considered. Here, I'd like one explanation about that, and then I'll tell you about the amendments regarding HDZ MPs, and plus there are amendments that are against constitutional ones. We can vote, but it would be too unserious to vote at all on the amendments that are in the anti-taste and put the law above the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4229	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Whether one of the Council of Ministers has a sense and a need to report. There isn't. Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. In Article 94(3), the College had, used both of these, these sub-points A and B. There were several proposals on the elimination of the pattern P2., i.e. roughly summed up essentially to amendments SDP, parties to BiH, SDA, etc. and we felt that these amendments should be in front of MPs with all the contradictions of certain amendments which, in our opinion, are contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not any dilemma, and Parliament will respect their constitutionality and legality and declare itself in that context for or against. In that context, it means no less than the College was in that position. Ambassador Šašivarević called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4230	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Banjac just mentioned the procedure of the time surrounding the lecture of amendments, etc. I think we made the last decision here. At least that's how I understood that Parliament, the House of Representatives, had accepted that everyone to submit the amendment to the last Parliament would be taken into account. So, the Party for BiH has not given up on these amendments, and I want little, perhaps, to repeat what Mr. Bogićević said. The party for Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the stand and we estimate that the adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law is a priority task and we believe that the law needs to be adopted as soon as possible, because this is also a basic condition for the adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Council of Europe. Parts of the Law concerning the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision on the consistency and equality of the people throughout the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to be adopted before the appropriate changes to the entity's constitutions, as the electoral law cannot be adopted with gaps. That's the opinion of the BiH Party. The application of the OSC's provisional electoral rules is not a solution, as they also come from the provisions of the Statute of entities declared unconstitutional and invalid by the Constitutional Court which I final and binding. The draft election law is the first document that actually defines the position and equality of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina regardless of which nations, religions, political beliefs, sex, entity membership, or any membership. Therefore, we insist on respecting the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms, which is guaranteed to, quote:- everyone has the same right to access public services in their country, each has the right to participate in the administration of their country, directly or through the free 9 elected representatives, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, the International Treaty on Civil and Political Rights, which, before the provisions of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has priority over domestic laws and above any law of this country. Thus, the Deton Agreement, was an obligation to respect the document of the second meeting of the conference on the human dimension, the conference on security and co-operation in Europe, Hagen Kopen 1990, particularly binding provisions that we are obliged to ensure that the will of the people serves as the basis of the authority of the participating country. To guarantee universal and equal voting rights for all adult citizens and to respect the right of a person or group to establish in full freedom their own party or other political organisations and provide such political parties and organisations with the necessary legal guarantees to enable them to compete on the basis of equal treatment before law and authorities. We want to correct the existing segregation and discrimination, as well as the situation resulting from colossal violations of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can do this by applying standards that we believe are civilized. We will pass legislation, but not one that will be against the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which over 30% of BiH citizens can never think of being elected to the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina or any House of Peoples of Parliament where national interests are represented. The fact that entities did not implement the Constitutional Court Decision, and they were obliged to do so. This commission was supposed to implement that decision by 16.4. We know where it came from. This cannot limit the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from adopting provisions in the law that are in line with that decision and which meet international human rights standards guaranteed by the BiH Constitution. We want to express legitimate concern by the draft amendment to the Republika Srpska Constitution, proposed by the Republika Srpska government. They show that the historic decision of the highest state court, which is final and binding, wants to bypass and deny the existing inequality and discrimination against two other constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The last amendment, to ours regarding pattern P2. is supported by the return of refugees and displaced to their homes and persons who have arrived in other people's homes or houses, allowing for a vote in municipalities where they were resident according to the 1991 census. We mean gentlemen at this point we can agree on everything, about these amendments that the SDP has proposed and are here only in shades differ. However, we believe that the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot go, at least under three of these. It is a non-discrimination in the election of Republika Srpska presidents and presidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina's symmetric solutions when it comes to the House of Peoples. If there is a House of People in the Federation, such a same House of Peoples should exist in Republika Srpska. And we have an objection to the amendment adopted by the Commission to P2, which is that only one sentence is said to be deleted from that amendment, which says that there is no right to vote on the person who has received an eviction solution and has not evicted. We believe that sentence should be deleted. To say clearly and loudly that there is no right to vote in the area where there is now no one who is in other people's property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4231	I thank Ambassador Šašivarević. I propose in methodology we've finished the general discussion. We're going to get the amendment and we're opening a debate on 10 each amendment per person. We have 8 of them, which means we'll be more effective in the only possible way to bring this session to an end. I beg of you, we've finished the general discussion with our first reading. Two more MPs and we'll move on later. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4232	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, honored guests and the 7th Force, I will try to be very brief and say only a few views that have been very clear since before. The SDA and I as an MP in front of that party know what the Electoral Law means for this country, we are truly keen to bring this electoral law as soon as possible, but to make it as fair as possible for all citizens and all peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just out of this desire to be as cooperative as we really are, we haven't gone with a lot of amendments to this election law. We went with two amendments. One of these amendments was adopted by the Constitutional Commission and it is an integral part of the proposal. The second amendment is the one mentioned earlier by Mr Šašivarević, which is Article 29, paragraph 2, where a new position is added. We are not satisfied with the position adopted by the Constitutional Commission and we have agreed to the position submitted here by the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Mr. Šašivarević. So that amendment of mine, the amendment of the SDA, is actually an integral part of that amendment to the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one thing. I say the third. It's gentlemen dear, this is the same as Mr. Šašivarević mentioned, it's the House of Peoples. I am truly very responsible and I think that in a very responsible place I want to say this both as an individual and as a man and as an MP in this House that whoever wants good Bosnia and Herzegovina and all its citizens must put those citizens and people in an equal position. You can't bring gentlemen from the international community, I'm telling you right now, you can't bring someone into an equal position in one entity in one way, and in another entity in another way. The people's home in the Federation means the House of Peoples in Republika Srpska. That's, without it, impossible. If anyone did, I never thought one could be solved in one entity, and another way in another, but it should be reciprocity, to be equal to every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If anyone thinks it can be solved differently, from the switchover, or from May 5th and from June 18th, I find it impossible to resolve the different protection of vital national interests in one entity in one way and in another in another way. Gentlemen who wish to resolve it this way do not want Bosnia and Herzegovina well and does not wish well for any constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be constitutional at every stage of Bosnia and Herzegovina and should therefore be put in an equal position. I'm sorry if anyone thinks they can get lucky at the heart of someone's accident. I will always advocate that everyone's happiness be in an equal relationship with anyone else. I am also saying this as president of the Human Rights Commission for Asylum and Refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And from this context, I am saying I will always advocate that no citizen, no member of any nation feels damaged and feels foreign at any rate of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4233	I thank Ambassador Brk and there is more MP Amidžić
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4234	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I will be very brief. I just want to ask one question about the procedure. At this point I'm asking the question: - When will they stop coming to the table of MPs' amendment? Now we got these eight, I found them on two pages of one sheet and I found 12. It means when it stops, we draw the line under the amendment. Secondly, it means when they will technically be final and correct. Because I now have a series of objections to the technical appearance of some amendments. When will it be final, then? Let's find out. We have so many amendments. Please, let's put it in, so much by the name of the representative, that and that representative, that and that club tabled an amendment to the article that and that one. This and that submitted an amendment to the article and to introduce it into the session procedure. And it is the right of those who have submitted the amendment to declare whether it is withdrawn or put to the vote. I think objectively, the way we started by bringing the story down to 8 instead of 12 instead of 108, we could objectively go into some kind of store, or some debate that would be plenary. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4235	I thank Ambassador Amidžić. Deputy Chairman Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4236	Dear guests, honourable MPs, the club I was a member of was ready to vote on an emergency procedure for Article 105. Since there is no readiness, we accept that it goes according to Article 104. There is no readiness that was when it came to the laws declared by the OHR. Of course we have to pass the Law today, because this is a condition, a key remaining condition for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe. The electoral law is the result of a compromise, which is the text which was essentially prepared by the OSC and proposed by the Council of Ministers. A key commitment to why I believe the law can be supported is that it contains rules under which elections were held from 1996 to today, which all members of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from municipalities to this assembly, have been elected according to these rules, all parties participating since 1996 to today have adopted the electoral rules prescribed by the OSC. That is why we believe that there are conditions to move forward and to inform you in the end that the club whose member I have withdrawn amendments in order to pass the law, because we want this law to be passed. Of course, we cannot act against the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure today and cannot accept amendments that do not comply with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4237	Thank you. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4238	Dear gentlemen, dear guests, there has been a lot of debate on how to proceed today at the Expansive College. What is positive and what should be accepted as one good fact is that there is a will for all to come to an agreement and to adopt 12 laws. Of course, it is good when everyone is equally content and equally unsatisfactory. Because then it is a sign that there is a compromise that is extremely important for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for all its peoples and citizens. To that end, although we have major objections, and of course communication only shows reasonableness, we have decided that MPs from the SDS Club withdraw their amendments and thus give the public both domestic and international knowledge that they want the law to be passed. We weren't against the apriority of any option that was considered here this morning, that's Article 105 or Article 104. But, gentlemen, I didn't understand some people and their ideas. I did not understand because I did not see any of this good intention, for all that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure cannot be considered at the same time as good intentions. If we are willing to pass the law here and now, then it is least important whether it will be a member of 104 and a member of 105. It's important that we today and one and another members can get the Electoral Law. I also consider the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which has put forth a great deal of effort to achieve acceptable text to the extent that this has been possible by harmonising and agreeing. For this reason, I am taking this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Commission for understanding and to call for the same approach in all other legal projects that will be discussed here. What gentlemen, which will be brought to our votes, with our previous agreement, with the settlement and simply understood the fact that without sufficient communication there will be no good results in that direction let's all go together, so that we all get better.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4239	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. We're having a general discussion... Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4240	I would ask a question to Mr Mirjanić, who has now expressed the position of the College. Based on which you have concluded that these laws are unconstitutional. I guess only the Constitutional Court can make that decision. He has the right to an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4241	Ambassador Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4242	It's obviously that some of them didn't hear me very well. I didn't speak for the College, I spoke for the Club I'm a member of. That's the first one. The second I said that today we cannot vote as MPs for those amendments that do not comply with the Constitution. Read the Constitution, read the Rules of Procedure, and you will see that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4243	I thank my colleague Mirjanić, a colleague, MP Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4244	I welcome all present, especially the Council and the Chairman. The debate here is now being held whether the amendments are in accordance with Article 94. Rules A and B to discuss on this council. We discussed this at the last session and Mr. Banjac rose up and said that these amendments would be accepted for the reason that 13 had not been delivered in good time to the Constitutional Commission report, so it was not known since the expiry of that period of 48 hours. I think we've absorbed that in the last session and we should discuss the principles today. The party for Bosnia and Herzegovina has proposed amendments based on the rights of all citizens. All parties here insist on the importance of adopting the Election Law and compromises. I think that these compromises should rightly refer to the rights of citizens, human rights guaranteed by all conventions that form part of our Constitution of Article 2. Annex IV to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On that trail, the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina insisted on equal rights for citizens throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, on equal voting rights and the right to elect representatives, specifically with members of the presidency. It has been proposed that members of the presidency be elected throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and that all peoples and all citizens have the same right to vote in this area. I think all parties who claim to be here should pass the Electoral Law should show an understanding of this situation we've found ourselves in. Article 2 Bosnia and Herzegovina's Anex IV constitution and Article 5 are on the rise and the question now is how to resolve the problem. Under Article 2 of all the Conventions on Human Rights including the European Convention, the UN Universal Charter on Human Rights and that document from the Copenhagen Hagen are an integral part of our constitution. And they guarantee all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina equal rights without discrimination. The electoral law has discriminatory provisions in the parts that I will now indicate. That's: - Human rights home, it's a selection of members of the Bureau and it's a P2 form.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4245	poslanik Zaćiragić. We've had a general discussion. I'm asking you to talk about the amendments. Second reading. Article 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4246	Now these amendments are – Amendment 1.9 applies.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4247	We'll get to the amendment and then we'll have a chance to propose, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4248	Then I finished this first part. Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4249	Thank you. I'm begging you. The general debate ended in our first reading. We're moving on to an amendment statement. It's a stubborn fact. It's the only way we can come to a solution. Let's just get out of the amendment. We've got eight amendments. And in that context, we go one step at a time. I'm begging you. So, fellow Mehtić, you will have the opportunity to discuss any amendment by amendments. Amendment of the Party Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 1.9. Is there more information about this amendment to the BiH Party, or discussions on this amendment. Here you go. The argument was given by the president of the club. We discussed it. 14 So I am finishing the debate on this first amendment by the Party's Club for BiH member in 1.9 and we are moving on to a statement. Who is it to adopt this amendment? Who's against this amendment? Who's being held back? I think you need an entity vote. Who is from Republika Srpska to be respected. No, please. It's 41, for 17, against 16, abstention 7. So the amendment didn't get the required majority in the first round of voting. So you don't even need an entity vote. Thank you. You heard the results. Amendment 2. I beg you, it's too serious a job to be able to. A total of 41 were in favour, 17 voted against, 16 voted, abstentioned 7, one did not vote. We're also checking the entity vote. Who is it from Republika Srpska to adopt this member? Who's in? Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt this member? Thank you. We do not have an entity majority from the Republika Srpska area and in this context the amendments have not been adopted. We're going to Amendment 2.. Bogićević, Avdić on behalf of the SDP Club, member of the 8th election of the presidency members in two circles. Is there any more information? I can only say this, I'm right because I'm one of the promoters. Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić made it clear: - by Article 2. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina we have the right and this amendment simply has its full right. According to Article 5, which prescribes a decadent election of members of the Bureau, this amendment is also not against that member, but simply makes it more relevant with the first round of voting aimed at the qualification process and in this context I ask you, so it is not against the Constitution and it is based on the Constitution, and it simply creates a higher degree of democratisation within Bosnia and Herzegovina. So much for me. Is there anyone else? There isn't. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4250	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one intervention concerning the election of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency I have had an amendment, too, it is not here. I don't know what his fate was, I didn't give up, it wasn't publicly announced, I don't know what it was, and by what criteria he chose. At the very least, I owe you an explanation of what happened. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4251	The problem is of a technical nature because MP Đedović has a lot of right not to participate any club of MPs and in this context a mixed club. So Parliamentarian Lozančić and others, after agreeing on this amendment, simply the MP Đedović was not on an objectively extended college, and I am asking the service during the session of this amendment of Đedović's MPs to simply put on parliamentary benches. Thank you. They got it 6.6, but it doesn't matter to treat it equally with all other poslanik Đedović did not give up his amendment. I'm begging you. We agreed on this eight. poslanik Đedović has not given up his amendment. He insists on staying. He delivered it in due time, and the College cannot have any other decision but to simply plead on the amendment. It's no problem. It's not a dispute. I'm begging you. About the amendment Bogićević, Avdić: - Presidency, members 8.1, 8.2. and 8.3. Who is it to adopt this amendment? Who's against it? The green card of the Spasojević. Who's restrained? We're going to an entity vote. I'm asking you from the Federation, who's in favour of this amendment? From the Republika Srpska area? I am sorry this amendment did not pass the entity majority and I conclude that the House of Representatives is also Amendment 2.. Bogićević, Avdić refused. Moving to Amendment 3. Party Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Articles 8.1 to 8.2. The electoral law is changed and said. Whether there is a need to explain this amendment again. Someone from the BiH Party. There isn't. So I'm closing the discussion. Who is it that the amendment of the BiH Party Club that treats members 8.1 is adopted? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Still, let's check the entity majority. Who is from Republika Srpska for this amendment? And from the Federation of Amendments? Thank you. I find that the entity majority has not passed both in this context and in Amendment 3. The Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina Club has not been adopted. So the correction of Articles 8.1. amandman 4.. predlagač and MPs Ivo Lozančić and Ibrahim Đedović. Article 11.10. 2. delete. Is there any need to explain the amendment? Proposers. Ambassador Đedović. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4252	I, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, will be very brief in the explanation of the additional. There was no original version of the proposed law of this amendment. It's a 3% electoral concession in the constituency. We view as proposing that this narrows down the space for the development of new political parties and parties that currently have fewer voters for various reasons, and by estimating the international community's recommendations, in particular the Office of the High Representative, we believe that this is not good and that it should be possible for new forces and new ways of thinking in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why we think this attitude 2 needs to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4253	Thank Ambassador Đedović. We can go to a statement on Amendment IV about the census. Who is it to adopt this amendment IV? Thank you. Who's against this amendment? Thank you. Who's restrained? We're also checking the entity majority. Who is from the RS area for this amendment? - 2 Who is from the Federation area for this amendment? However, this number of votes should be registered. The establishment of Amendment IV received 41 MPs in the first round of voting – for the vote 16 against was 7 – abstention 8. By entities from Federation 13 – from RS 2. He did not receive an entity majority, and in this context, amendment IV of MPs Lozančić and Đedović did not receive a majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Amendment number V. This is the party's proposed party club for BiH. Whether or not there is a need to explain this amendment again. Ambassador Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4254	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, dear guests, the Party for BiH of this amendment wanted to actually insist on the universal human right to be elected throughout the country. Since we are a UN Member State, I see no reason why the solution should be different. A symmetric system in two entities that are basically multiethnic and the Madrid Declaration has strongly insisted on it, would practically be a confirmation of that attitude, if we had a symmetrically organised system in both entities. In that sense, I appeal to all people sitting here as parliamentarians of the BiH state, respecting this argument to vote in favour of this amendment. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4255	I thank Ambassador Cuplow. Does anyone else appear under this amendment number V, the Party for BiH Club. Nobody's answering any more. We can break the plea. Who is it that this amendment is to adopt the number of the V Club of the Party for BiH? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? It is necessary to hold an entity vote. Who's in the RS area for this amendment number V, who's in favour? Who's in the Federation area for this amendment? Thank you. Amendment number V of the Party for BiH, which is defined through Articles 11.1. – 11.2. still did not get the required majority. Of the 41 MPs, 17 voted – against 11 – abstention 13. According to entities, the Federation voted in favour of 15 – from the RS area voted by 2 and in this context the amendment number V of the Party for BiH Club did not get the consent of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Amendment number VI. It is an amendment submitted by fellow Bogićević on behalf of the SDP Club, Articles 11.1. to 11.5 are deleted. Is there any need for further explanation? There's no need. Thank you. We can move to an amendment VI statement. Here you go. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4256	I appreciate my colleaguesBogičević efforts and efforts to solve the problem, but I think this amendment is in collegiate with the BiH Constitution, given that the BiH Constitution has precisely defined the choice in the House of Peoples, that is, the House of Peoples. Therefore, I believe we can vote, but this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4257	poslanik Grabovac, thank you. Is there anyone else? Thank you. We can move on to a plea. Amendment VI, Bogićević on behalf of the SDP Assembly Club. Who is it to adopt this amendment VI? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. Let's pass the entity vote. Who is from the Federation's field of law, in the Federation area, for amendment number VI? Who's for Amendment VI in the RS area? Amendment number VI. The results of the vote are the following: 41 present. For this amendment, the number of VI Members of the SDP voted 23 – against 16 – abstention 2. However, the entity majority has not been reached for the Federation 20 of RS 2 and this amendment number of VI of the 18 SDP MPs has not received the required majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Amendment number VII – Party for BiH Club. Do you need to explain it? Ambassador Mediha Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4258	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, a little stress, a little note before you go to the polls. In front of the Party for BiH Club, I draw attention to the need to take into account the near past of BiH and the bloody events that have occurred and the well-founded fact that at least three people live in BiH, it becomes a condition of synquanon, therefore, a condition without which we will not be able to live and cannot live two-day parliaments at all levels, because in BiH today, every nation needs a guarantee that it will not be outvoted at any level, please take this into consideration and show your civic loyalty.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4259	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Medihi Filipović. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4260	With the interdependence of various interpretations of what is under the existing Constitution or what is at the reached level of ownership oligarchy, I want to publicly invite you all to overcome your political and party limitations that once definitely the category as you call it willfully I say it, because it does not belong to me category Others that you once definitely introduce. It is a shame for this country for a world of long tradition measured for hundreds of years, when people who were neither Bošnjak nor Srbin nor Hrvat were able to be officially respected in this country, to grow now a generation, especially in politics, which so brilliantly erases from the globe. Today is an opportunity, I think this amendment by the Party for BiH offers one of the solutions. I'd like you to make a quality bidding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4261	Thank you, Ambassador Bjelobrk. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4262	At least we won if nothing in an attempt to break the Constitution. The aamdman is in collegiate with the Federation of BiH constitution, since the Constitution of the Federation of BiH accurately defines how many envoys each of the constituent peoples and others are. Here is proposed for 10 as long as we now have a situation of 30 and I suggest that this amendment is not adopted, because it would certainly open up new problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4263	Thank you. Ambassador Jovanović 19
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4264	Dear Presidency, dam and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which I have here before me, there is only the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and says how to choose. There's only one home, no other home. So if we vote differently, then we violate the RS Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4265	It is nice to hear here at the call to the Constitution and to the violation of the Constitution and, of course, an unconstitutional category, which in this country has been ruled for a long time and has been clearly specified by the date on which the implementation of the constitutional decision on the constitution of the people in both entities was to cease. It doesn't matter what part of the MPs looks like. For formal legal reasons, I must tell Mr. Grabovac that only the Constitutional Court can decide whether our amendment is constitutional or not, and in that sense, your interpretation can only be considered well-intentioned, but not metric.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4266	Ladies and gentlemen, there was one commission that was supposed to make a decision on 16.4. In order to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, which, which is not discriminatory at all, is to wait and wait. So she also has a folk “lipsier donkey as the grass grows”. We believe that a people's home would have to be established to be parallel and symmetric as in the Federation of BiH and that this is the only way to protect the vital interests of the remaining Bosniak and Croatian population still left in RS. If we don't adopt that, then we've left these people behind, you've seen these last events, so we don't open up a debate about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4267	Thank you. No one's answering anymore. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4268	I said that if anything else in the attempts we're good at trying to break the Constitution. HDZ and HDZ Representatives' Club are exclusively for the respect of the BiH Constitution and the entity's constitution. So these are the very clear things that we're going with. It is how we are in favour of establishing the home of the people in the RS, and therefore we will push for the moment as soon as constitutional changes are made, and we will advocate that the electoral law contains the home of the people in RS. So it's not about which direction we stand, whether we want something or not. It's perfectly clear what we want, but I've done a little bit when it comes to this part, I'm replicating on that part how the vote went completely tied up by the members of the Presidency, the House of People, and this part of the other direction it's taking place. I think it is precisely in the Party for BiH that there is this problem, not a problem in the HDZ deputies or myself, because I think they had to determine one other direction of action and in principle that it is the Constitution and that we respect the Constitution when we get the possibility of change, HDZ is exclusively for the adoption of the home of the peoples one and the other, and when it comes to regulating national minorities, it can be discussed and resolved by law on national minorities rather than being manipulated by national minorities. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4269	This was a replica. Incorrect quotes. Who's calling? Ambassador Banajc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4270	Since the MPs are always yelling at the replica, whether it was called or not. There are several ways to report for discussion. I mean, gentlemen, this is more like a wish than a congregation, because I think people make wishes here. I would like us to discuss the amendments and to make it quite clear that the OHR Office in RS has given broad powers to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that it is not necessary to reconsider how things will continue, but to wait calmly and to act in accordance with that solution. Will the RS, in the National Assembly, agree that these powers of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that are now given, in accordance with the powers of the High Representative, remain the same or somehow different, what do we really want here? Really, if there's a desire here, there's more to it. Don't just stop at that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4271	I beg you, we are far from eager and in that sense it is good to relax a little, but we are doing too much serious work to be able to discuss in this context some thermological expressions that are not appropriate. Ambassador Brk, incorrectly states.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4272	Dear Chairman, I want to say something about the exact quote. The tačan quote is the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, and we really shouldn't be making a wish here, but to express the intentions of the Nathans that we can legally regulate for every citizen and every people in BiH to be better and for that, and just before I spoke, I drew this position. For the U.S.A., it was always clear what it meant. In fact, our current president of the BiH presidency also launched the initiative, Mr Izetbegović, on the consistency of the people and the Party of Democratic Action, thus best shows what it means. However, we are, indeed, also this way, adopting, by accepting this amendment of the Party for BiH by supporting it, showing that we care that as soon as possible and implement the decision on the consistency of the people in the entire territory of BiH. We consider it responsible people who didn't do it in time and the international community, who simply tolerates the unworkable work of someone who should have done it by now. If this job had been done today, this parliament would not have had any dilemmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4273	I would like to thank MP Brk and conclude the debate on the amendment of the VII Party for BiH, and we are moving to a statement on Amendment VII, and in this regard I am asking you who is in order for this amendment to be adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? We're moving on to an entity vote. 21 Who is therefore of the Federation to adopt this amendment? Who is from the RS area to adopt this amendment? Can we get this information? 41 MPs voted – for 18 – press 15 – abstention 8. By entities in Federation 17, it was for. There were two MPs from the RS area. In this regard, I find that amendment number VII of the Party's MPs' club for BiH has not been adopted. We are moving to consider Amendment No. VIII also of the Party for BiH Club. It is about the president and vice president of the Federation of BiH. Is there any need to explain this amendment? I can't see my hands. Thank you. We can move to a vote for this amendment. Who is it to adopt Amendment VIII of the Party for BiH Club? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Entire vote. Who's from the RS area for? - Two votes. Who's from the Federation area for? Similar results are already in the seventh, eighth attempt. Present 41 – vote for 16 – vs 15 – abstention 9. In the first round of voting. By entities. The Federation of BiH voted 14. From RS 2. I find that Amendment VIII of the Party for BiH Club did not receive the necessary majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Amendment IX, also, Party for BiH Club, Chapter XII. A. Proposed law. The election of President and Vice President of the Republic of Slovenia. Defined through Articles 12.b. Is there any need to explain this amendment? Party for BiH. We can't see our hands. So we can cross the plea. Who is it to adopt this amendment of the Party for BiH Club? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Entire vote. Who's from the RS area for? Thank you. Who's from the Federation area for? Amendment number IX of the BiH Club, which treats Chapter XII. A. The bill, on the principles and methods of electing the president and vice president of the RS, did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority of the House of Representatives. Out of 41 votes for 17 – against 13 – abstention 11. By entities. From the Federation area for 14 and from RS 2. We move on to the next amendment, it is Amendment X, too, the amendment is the Party to BiH. It is about Chapter XIII and the home of the people of the National Assembly of the RS. Whether there is a need to explain this amendment, the Party for BiH. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? There isn't. Who is it to adopt this amendment of the BiH Party? Who's in? 22 Who's against it? Who's restrained? By entities. Who's from the Federation area for? Who's from the RS area for? Amendment X also proposed by the Party for BiH Club in Chapter XIII. The election principles of the people's home, meaning the National Assembly of the RS and the introduction, did not get the necessary parliamentary majority. There are 40 MPs present right now. The vote was 17 – against 12 – abstention 10. By entities. From the Federation's area of voting for 15 – from RS 2 and in this context did not get the necessary majority in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Amendment XI, also proposed by the Party's Party for BiH Club and the definition and clarification from the aspect of those who use other people's property, from the aspect of neutralisation or elimination of the form P2. How popular we say it. Is there a need for an explanation? There is. Muhamed Begović, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4274	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment was sent 13.6.2001, within the meaning of Article 94(2), respectively. Rules of Procedure, and within 48 hours, I have submitted this amendment to Article 29, proposing that the contents of this amendment be read. A BiH citizen who uses a house or an apartment where he has no right to property or a tenant right does not have the right to vote in the area of residence and can register for elections only in the municipality where he had his last residence, according to the latest census in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4275	I thank Ambassador Begović. Anyone else answer for a word about the amendment? Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4276	This is about the ability to vote refugees and those who are in other people's property. I must now warn at last that this has no contradiction to the BiH Constitution. I call on all parties, who claim to exercise the civil rights of their voters who claim to exercise human rights in BiH and vote in favour of this amendment. All parties that oppose this will declare themselves against human rights. Hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons, there is no first freedom of movement, right to their home. Now other people are sitting in their homes, even temporarily giving them the right to vote. If they vote both there, then the voice is devoid and it only comes down to 50%. Take an example of the Tree. There were 96% Srbin there. There are more Hrvat now. If everyone votes for Drava and Srbin on the '91 list and the Croats who are resident there, the Srbin now come down to a minority of 45% or 45%. So, besides taking away people's property, challenging their right to freedom of movement, disputing them with other rights that belong to them, we also take away their voting rights at least 50%. Niko one can say this is unconstitutional. This restriction exists for a passive first vote. The passive right to vote is limited, we saw it in the last elections. Such foundations have been found by someone in the BiH Constitution and I think that in the same way, regulation and active law should be regulated, because hundreds of thousands of refugees will be disproved to lose hope of returning, and I think this will end the ethnic cleansing resulting from the war.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4277	I thank Ambassador Zaćiragić. I also find that the amendment of the SDP, the MPs' club, is almost identical. I'm asking the president of the Members' Club if we can vote together on one of those same amendments. So we don't come forward twice. I think we can take it. We can. Is there any other explanation about this amendment? We accept the formation of the Party for BiH and let's be clear. I'm giving up, so there are no 12 amendments. We're voting on one amendment. Who's in favor of adopting this amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? We have to vote on the entities. Who's from the Federation area for? Who is from the RS area for this amendment? Unfortunately, this amendment XI annexed to Amendment XII of the SDP did not receive the necessary entity majority, and the results of the vote point to the following: out of 41 MPs voted 25. The opposition was 8 — abstention 7. According to entities from the Federation, 22 and RS voted in favour of 3. Unfortunately, Amendment XI, which joins the SDP 12 amendment, has not received the necessary majority of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. We've exhausted this part of the amendment that was ahead of us. An intervention by Đedović, I would like to ask, given that we have received the parliamentary benches of MP Đedović's amendment to explain to us once again, a simple amendment proposing that this House be made known to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4278	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've already intervened in a way. The essence of my reaction, first of all in the procedure. I didn't get the answer. Who did the selection, and how? How some find themselves on the agenda of the amendment and some don't. Now, let me briefly explain the amendment for the election for the BiH presidency member, and we propose that each party or coalition propose a list of three candidates from the three nations and vote on the territory of the whole of BiH. The other two amendments, it is the fact that, according to the Constitutionality Decisions and the Federation and the RS, they have the president and two vice presidents, from the order of different peoples. In order not to explain each individual, it is the essence of my amendments, and it is the decision on the constitutionality of the people in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4279	Dear gentlemen, I ask that, in accordance with Article 94, these amendments be rejected, because it is the basis and they cannot be in the process as such. Article 94(3) is listed here, you know what applies to point 3. These are not Amendments 24 of Item 3 and I ask that they be promised and I pray that Parliament declares its rejection, or there is no need for Parliament, it is you gentlemen from the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4280	That's an accurate interpretation. The college has a duty to be seen on these amendments. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4281	I wanted to remind my friend Banjac that he was here to explain that it could be done that way, that according to his suggestion it was done, so I'm speaking procedurally, and I'm asking him to check himself out, and I think it's a lot more who likes who or who thinks. It's as procedural here as any other amendment. You can't argue with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4282	Gentlemen, this is the second time today that words are listed here that I haven't spoken, because I control what and when I speak and I know and eventually there's a stenogram that will be a witness if someone doesn't believe it. Neither did I say nor would it ever occur to me to say such a thing, that I could stand the amendment against the Rules of Procedure. The day we spoke here, it was about the time of the extension of the delivery of the amendment in accordance with the Psolovnik, not against the Rules of Procedure. These amendments have been sent against the Rules of Procedure. Article 94. Paragraph 3. Let MP Đedović read so I don't take up time here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4283	There's no need to read. mnoto know a lot in Section 94 A and B and we think, here's the College's little consultation, there's no consent to go to a vote on these amendments. Clearly, we must have a consensus. We do not have a consensus and in this context the amendment does not go to the vote and with this more and more personal my personal observations that these amendments have already been to the vote and that they have not simply received the necessary parliamentary majority in the House of Representatives. I thank you for this first part of the session that is. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4284	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind again the procedure of how these amendments have taken place. Also, I'd like to remind you that it's 6.6. The Parliamentary Assembly has received this. I said at first, I expected at least an intervention on what's going on with them. No one found it appropriate to say it either. I don't know where you're taking yourself for first, to say it's no good now, now it's not going to go to the vote. You, like any other amendment, may the House be declared. It's not right. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4285	I'm sorry, MP Đedović. I'm sorry, Article 94. The one you called with your amendments says next. That the Chair, in consultation with the Vice-Presidents, will apply the new amendments only in the following cases you have called upon, when it concerns those aspects which the Commission could not take into account, when it seeks to bring two or more proposals in line with which the debate is being held. So the College doesn't have the consent to put your amendments to the vote and I'm sorry it's a stubborn fact. It is simply in the domain of the College to decide whether or not to decide whether or not to vote on these amendments. It's very clear and democratic and there's no dilemma. Ambassador Đedović again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4286	Madam Chairman, please take a look at the procedure and to what the Amendments of the Party for BiH are called, the same foothold of the same amendment as the constitutional basis for them cannot be voted on. It can only be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4287	I'm sorry, you have the right to think so. Democracy is a slow process and today we have shown, however, a high degree of democracy. You have the right to the Soviet opinion. The college decides and it's possible that the College made a mistake, but that's the case. There is no consensus to put your amendments to the vote. We can cross over, so by completing these amendments, I ask you if we have acquired the conditions and the preconditions that we can go to a statement on the whole text of BiH's electoral law. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4288	You have obviously forgotten that the rest are still HDZ amendments that are completely regular, in accordance with Article 94. I said that apparently the gentlemen forgot that the HDZ amendments to her club were left unpronounced. I can say it like this. Since the HDZ Representatives' Club aims to pass this electoral law and in the truth that BiH is a member of the Council of Europe, so that it can be far better and better protected by the rights of its peoples and citizens. When it comes to this electoral law, given that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, or amendments that were on the Constitutional First Commission, were given by the Croatian Democratic Community, i.e. the Four Amendments Club, which are key to the adoption and they have adopted a permanent part of this law. A proposal from this law. Since these amendments, which were important to us, were related to the BiH presidency and the BiH House of Peoples, did not get the necessary majority and did not pass. The HDZ Representatives Club will support the full law. He will give up his amendments to eight amendments, i.e. 55 articles, which can be considered to have been 55 amendments to this electoral law. Given that everything in this law has been incorporated, what we have warned, which has led to the problem of the Interim Election Rules, which were 2000 years of age, and that fundamental things are at stake when it comes to selecting members of the Presidency, i.e. the way of the preferential voting system is not accepted for the Presidency, and our amendment has been accepted. Also, the election of members of the presidency, the House of Peoples in 26 has been built in line with the BiH Constitution in this law. We will give up all these amendments, with a suggestion that this part concerning the transitional and final provisions to the harmonisation of the Constitution, which is why we are actually accepting the essence, which is also the whole thing of our amendments going in this direction, that the provisional electoral rules that were in '98 and published in the Official Journal of BiH, in the Official Messenger BiH 15/98 and 2000/98, that they are going to fully adopt the text when it comes to these Temporal Elections, which would be introduced in the whole text into this law, with another proposal to go into the basic provisions, but we do not insist on that part of the basic provisions, given that we have the possibility of change and that the elections, if they are implemented according to these first '98. For this reason, I underline to her once, we give up our amendments, after the vote of these amendments and in the truth we confirm that the problems created by the electoral law, in the truth HDZ was right, that it detested because it discredited or tried to erase the position of a people. This is how it goes back. Therefore, we believe that we were absolutely right when we warned of the Interim Election Rules, which were passed in 2000, under which these elections were conducted and implemented and this electoral law will be supported in full, by insisting that the text be entered into completeness when it comes to not only being from the 98th year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4289	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Does anyone else feel on behalf of the MPs' clubs to say anything? Here you go. Ambassador Vukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4290	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I would love to, given that this text of the law has experienced a series of changes and this consolidated version that we have, I think there are a number of errors, because the amendments to the mandatory articles are not exactly consistent, so I'm going to set a few examples of this final version being made in vain, for the sake of consequence, for the sake of interpretation that I can be. So I'm going to quote in Chapter V of Article 14 of the 33rd page at the very top this first part is unnecessary. I will give an example of Chapter XII of Article 12.2. he begins the House of Representatives of the Federation Parliament, and let's say Article 12.9 begins with Parliament of the Federation, I think that in both cases it must be Parliament of the Federation. I think there are other examples like this in cleaning up the text really have to be made sure that he is properly engaged, that I am saying based on the experience we had in the Constitution of the Central Bosnia County, where, they were printing a mistake one article very important deleted and I would say it led to a crisis in that county.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4291	Thanks for these warnings. Do you have a colleague Mirjanić?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4292	When we've come to these mistakes, I'll only warn of one mistake I've noticed. There are more gaps, but it's no problem to determine which is the right text. This is Article 2.19 of the amendment read in paragraph 1. Member, etc. replacing the words of two or four members, and by error two or four members are written in the consolidated text. Since it has to be an odd number, it's obviously a mistake this word up to. There are more of these technical errors but it's not 27 problems, because it will work, it has the original text of the amendment, it has this text and it can be solved. There's a series of printing mistakes, but that's all it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4293	Is anyone else answering for a word? Ambassador Adem Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4294	The Party of Democratic Action MPs' club has given up some amendments, hoping the amendments submitted by the Party of Democratic Action and the Social Democrats will come to an understanding of this parliament. So some key amendments were not adopted and the Club of Members of the United States unfortunately will not be able to support this law. We wanted these amendments to preserve the European principles, which we advocate, unfortunately in the electoral law they fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4295	I thank Ambassador Borić. Is anyone else answering for word? I'm obliged, I'd say a few words before, because I feel the need. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, over the past six months of this term, we have objectively tried to work on the welfare of both the citizens and the people of BiH, and I think this parliament has preserved this high dignity, which, by the logic of things, has done a lot to make BiH institutions operational, electing the Council of Ministers, electing two members of the Presidency and everything else we have done in the parliamentary procedure in the past six months. I'd like to ask you, the Constitution of BiH has been obtained from Dayton. The BiH Constitution is an objectively the highest act of a state and in this context the electoral law as a lower order, a single document or a legal act must be in agreement with the BiH Constitution. For us, it is simple, for me personally, that the Constitution of BiH is a document that must, in this way, experience some root change, in terms of harmonisation and compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 2. The BiH constitution is based on the mundane concept of the international law primate over domestic law in BiH. Article 5 shall be rejected by Article 2. And a member of the 5th objectively defines the selection of members of the BiH presidency. In such a situation, we were objectively unable to come across or make comparisons or comparisons with some other states and solutions of the constitutional-first system. Which means we are not many happy with this outcome and with this electoral law, but I repeat again it is an act that should be lifted with the Constitution of BiH. That's one fact. Another fact, BiH is in transition. It harmonizes entity constitutions with the Constitution of BiH and the Constitutional Court's ruling on the equality and constitutionality of the people on the entire territory of BiH. Surely the electoral law that is before the vote today is a document that will surely have to be consistent with this basic premise and with the solutions that come to us as a result of the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. What am I talking about? So it would be good to have a minimum political consensus and that this law has the trust of most political parties and 28 parties operating in the House of Representatives and the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I ask you, consider these words for these next half-hour breaks and simply bridge and let us not simply look at the narrow party interests, but rather to join the Council of Europe to strengthen, preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of BiH. Once again, it confirms the borders of this country, and that's the part that gives us the right to say that this election law should be passed. Thank you very much. Half an hour's break. On behalf of the College, I would also like to thank you for your patience and understanding, and also for your tolerance for this course of the session, but this is the most important law in this term of the period during which the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH discusses, and it is logical that this is also the case, i.e. the course of events and ultimately expected. In the desire and struggle to preserve and adopt this law, means a fundamental goal, almost most or all political escorts and parties, I have not been faced with any other tendencies, but objectively all political parties feel that the electoral law should go and be adopted. Today we've been considering 11 amendments. All amendments have been rejected. The Council of Ministers has been updated, the Council of Ministers' proposal has been complemented by another 18 amendments to the Constitutional-First Commission, which is the proposal for an election law that has come to an act of vote. For reasons and the desire to achieve a full political consensus and gather most political parties, to give consent to this law, to be a kind of message of encouragement to the citizens and the peoples of BiH, to keep this high house and its political and moral dignity, to have broad support for this electoral law, however, the College agreed, on the SDP Club proposal to continue the meeting tomorrow at ten o'clock with the conclusion, to continue where we left off. It means we only have before us an act of voting. To spend this time trying to achieve a higher degree of political consensus and simply round up most political parties to vote for this law. So that's the fundamental goal, and no other political or any other speculation is in our head. I thank the presidents of the clubs of MPs, who have had the understanding, who give this part of the time to gather and try to reach full political consensus and expect it, I am certified personally and personally, that tomorrow the electoral law will be adopted at 10 pm and solemnly. I'm asking for this degree of tolerance. Thank you for understanding. We start tomorrow at ten o'clock in the same room. Continuing session 21.6.2001, 29 My koleginica Members and fellow Members, thank you for your tolerance and understanding that we continue today's session, the 10th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives meeting. There are 40 MPs present and we have a quorum to decide on. Yesterday, we held an extended college and agreed to a follow-up of the 10th session, with my obligation to inform you that seven amendments were made yesterday with the absence of the entity majority. In this case, OHR also warned me that the procedure stipulates that these amendments, which did not receive an entity majority, were given the majority of the House of Representatives, must be brought into line in a commission phase that makes up the College of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, and in this context there is no agreement in the College on that. I ask Ambassador Woltman to explain this procedure once again if necessary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4297	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, it's not the first time that this is from a session to a session, that the College can't hold meetings and that it's causing confusion and I'm looking for their resignation on behalf of the MPs' club and that there's a vote of mistrust.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4298	We'll leave that for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4299	We won't leave, sir. You need to read here, you're done, and now I'm going to read what you didn't do, you brought the session to the vote, that you didn't know or didn't want or anything else, that's your problem, but the Rules of Procedure is completely clear. You should have, if so, as you say, interrupted the 60-minute session after finding a solution. You didn't do it, you brought the session to an end. Gentlemen, read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4300	You have no right, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4301	No, gentlemen, I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4302	You can have a 30-minute break. Break 30 minutes. 30 A half-hour break was sought by the SDS MPs' club, the word has been given by the MP Banjac. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4303	Dear gentlemen, the Club of Members of the Serbian Democratic Party has asked for a break to see this new situation, which can be described as a nightmare, intentional or not on purpose, but in any case not acceptable. Last night it was made quite clear that only the statement remains, and the stenogram shows it clearly. After all, it is necessary to honor and bring this session to an end in a dignified way, not affecting anyone, but having the strength to give in to people as they think. That this is a nightmare, because I have said one expression that may be steaming ears and my ear, which I have said is a nightmare, but a letter from the Council of Ministers has arrived in the House of Peoples, which brings exactly such a nightmare. I have this memo here photocopied in which they provide a memo that the electoral law, allegedly theirs, which is now more theirs, which neither they are likely to be quite sure, but that it is being considered by Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Is it possible to consider a mistake unintended, such an ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, I'm not sure. In fact, in our Rules of Procedure, gentlemen are standing and everyone must know that this is Article 99 that the law must be adopted first in the House of Representatives and then sent to the House of Peoples and that is quite clear. The home of the people has no chance of sending us the law so that the others can adopt it. That's what our Rules of Procedure won't allow. Is this all by chance and to overcome this situation, the SDS Club requests that immediately, without delay, access to the plea, as such a interrupted session with such a conclusion. Gentlemen, I asked for a 30-minute break. We came back here after 30 minutes to find out afterwards that some session of the extended college was held. Gentlemen, this is a new mess. Well, I guess it was our turn to come back after the break here and have someone look for a new break and on this new break, others have the right to the College, and if they had the need for a break, I don't slow them down, but as long as gentlemen treat MPs like this. There's no way, gentlemen, if anyone wants to put this home in such a situation, that no statement is wrong. Those who have chosen the Council of Ministers will have to show before the public today whether or not they will vote for their law. It's also a clear message to the Council of Ministers, if their proposal fails. It is a clear message that it will be a brake so that BiH will not be admitted to the Council of Europe. If someone wants to take on such a responsibility, such a problem on their backs, without responsibility, he's wronged himself. This is a serious moment and I'm asking you to approach the plea, it's our express request. And in order to continue to conduct this session and this house, the MPs' Club teaches here and a written motion for a vote of no confidence.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4304	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. I am also obliged to point out that we have received information from the Council of Ministers, as well, and we today propose BiH election law during the break, since yesterday's session 20.6., that amendments from the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the BiH House of Representatives have been accepted at the 8th session of June 2001. All amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Representatives shall be adopted, except for Amendment 12, which shall be based on the addition of Article 11.10. The proposal of the law, because it is the same inconsistent 31 of our electoral system, that the proposal for a high degree of urgency should be considered by an urgent procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Official Messenger of BiH, No 20/2000. I am, please, delivering the information I received.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4305	Please, this is a violation, a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, and leading to new complications in the home. The public must know that the Council of Ministers does not accept any amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, nor can it refuse or accept them. For what, people, that's another proof that people don't read the Rules of Procedure. Please, it can't be done like this anymore. I, here, officially, will get you another initiative in writing, and that's the change of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4306	I'm begging you, this was just information. I didn't even plead to put it on the agenda. Information to be delivered yesterday to the House of Representatives and in this context. Minister Zubak.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4307	For your complete information, gentlemen and ladies representatives, I'd like to show you the following. The Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers held the meeting yesterday, on the basis of information that an agreement has been reached that, if the Council of Ministers accepts the amendments adopted by this Constitutional and Legal Commission, the Council of Ministers should write it, hold a session, support and advise you to adopt laws under the provisions of Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and we did it yesterday. What this and written confirmation of our position came today, I, don't ask me, but we have acted on such information and it is now incorrect to involve the Council of Ministers with all that is happening. The Council of Ministers acted on the information that such an agreement had been reached. We just wanted to help, to make the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4308	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, here's to answer to Mr. Zubak, since he's from the biggest train station in Doboj, the train is already in front of the train station in Strasbourg and he's still waving in Doboy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4309	I ask you to bring this session to one spirit of dignity and dignity of this home. Please, I am also obliged to read and once again take responsibility off myself both morally and politically. In Article 4.3.d. The BiH Constitution is scheduled for the following. All decisions by both homes are made by the majority of the votes cast by those present and voting. Delegates and members will make the most of their efforts to include at least one third of the votes of delegates or members of the territory of each entity. If most do not include one-third of the delegates' votes, or members of the territory of each entity, the chairman and his deputies will, acting as commission, seek to reach agreement within three days of the vote. If these efforts fail, 32 decisions will be taken by the majority of those present and voting, provided that the votes against them do not include two-thirds or more delegates or members elected from each entity. This is the Constitution and the Constitution is not to be discussed and the Constitution is a fundamental document that has the right to the championship over all other documents and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. There are nine amendments left that have this status. They got most in the first round of voting, the entity majority didn't get. The college had this session this morning and had no consent and had not reached agreement on this in the first step. The House remains to declare whether it accepts or does not accept, according to one voting procedure which is precisely defined by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you need to explain it again. I ask you to implement this procedure and to vote on the Electoral Law aware of all controversy and knowing simply as they will have the fate of these nine amendments that are not in line, or have no entity majority. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4310	Gentlemen and gentlemen of MPs, I must say that we are terribly disappointed, because if anyone has shown the will to pass this law, I think that's what the HDZ Club has shown. We gave up our amendments so that Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law would be passed, and Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted into the Council of Europe. However, here is exactly what happens to us who say that for Bosnia and Herzegovina it is something controversial and that they are indeed the ones who dispute the adoption of this law and the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe. We are talking about the amendments that were yesterday, which are the amendments that are the only ones left to vote – the amendments of the SDP and the Party for BiH. Mr. Chairman, I warned you yesterday that amendments can go when it comes to these amendments to Article 94(3) of A and B. Although they did not have the opportunity to do so we missed that part because you said you agreed to go. I must warn myself that these amendments are not only anti-constitutional, but they are really intruding into the position and protective mechanisms of one of the holders of sovereignty, which is the Croatian people. And of course these amendments have fallen, because it has truly overcome reason, democracy within this Parliament. Of course, injured by possible petty or low within the party interests cannot understand that this has really passed, that these amendments have fallen and that they are no longer in the process. Mr. Chairman, you cannot appeal to the Constitution of Article 4, 3.d. which you are talking about because it is contained in the Rules of Procedure in Section 6. And you missed that procedure yesterday when you had most of it, you had to break up and try to make an adjustment. You requested a 60-minute break and you did it. But you didn't do it. The session was delayed and continued. You have called a college expanded where I have just warned of a maneuver that is possible, which is precisely this attempt through the House of Peoples although there is no Article 99. Rules of Procedure on the possibility of coming to such a law. But I felt that there was an opportunity to create this maneuver for some, I say again of petty party interests to the harm of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the harm of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this is what pours a glass for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to better live and find their place in Europe where they belong. Those who think they will stop Bosnia and Herzegovina from going to the Council of Europe, with some small 33 interests and even some amendments that are against constitutional and vote on them. I'm sure you won't get away with it. You will not pass, they must today tell the public who is for Bosnia and Herzegovina, who wants the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina well, who is the one who obstructs all of this. I would ask the High Representative of the OSC Office if possible, and this procedure has been violated, or missed, that they give their interpretation on this matter, whether there is a possibility that we can overcome this crisis and try to resolve and bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law and allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to enter the Council of Europe. These same voters I claim to you who are calling to win, because they are, because their ego has been injured because some amendments have not been made. What are these amendments that are problematic? What are these, let all those who had amendments say here - the problem is that and that amendment. Let's see what the problem is. Is that an amendment that really gets in the way of something that's not good? Is it an amendment that wants to make Bosnia and Herzegovina different or make it without one of the holders of sovereignty? Those will not be Bosnia and Herzegovina. They have to know that clearly. Bosnia and Herzegovina will not exist without the Croatian people. There may be some new someone different, but without the Croatian people, no. I call on the High Representative to try to give an interpretation to get us out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4311	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Yesterday, the House was on a high level and amendments that were contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its first reading in basic premises, we said the Election Law must be in agreement with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Election Law cannot change the BiH Constitution. And these are quite public messages and this high house. So the replica is Nedžad Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4312	Here, at all costs, I want this house to be a mess, and I have to intervene to read. This is where Mr. Chairman referred to the Constitution for solutions. I don't know whose name he was talking about. If he spoke for himself he had to come here, then he is an MP and should speak here and speak his mind and seek the support of this House for his opinions as an MP. If he spoke for the Kolegijum, I apologize to him, then he could sit where he was sitting. I want to hear the answer, because I have to read it put – did you speak for yourself, Mr. Chairman, or on behalf of the Kolegijum.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4313	This is the whole position of the House of Representatives College.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4314	That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4315	The electoral law should be in agreement with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4316	I'm not talking about it. That is what the Constitutional and Legal Commission has declared. Gentlemen, I'm talking about your position on whether to vote in one lap or not. Is that the position of the Kolegijum or your position? I want an answer so I can read something.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4317	I'm just acting...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4318	Please, if the Kolegijum has brought the view that we should go to the polls once more.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4319	No, noKolegijum no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4320	Then listen, gentlemen. Then call on Rule 20 of this Rules of Procedure, which says, "College makes decisions by consensus." This is about whether to vote again or not, if efforts to achieve a consensus fail, the decision is made by the House. So, gentlemen, you only have one chance and you have to respect your function and what you do. So it's not working here whether it's constitutional or not constitutional. It was decided by the Constitutional and Legal Commission when it comes to the law. When it comes to your position whether the procedure is good or not it is you, here you have not reached a consensus, now you need to ask the House, gentlemen who thinks you should vote again on the same amendments. If Dom decides to vote again, let him vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4321	I thank you for this intervention. Replica. poslanik Zaćiragić, then Nedžad Šaćivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4322	I think our discussion is going the wrong way. We're trying to accuse each other that we're not in, in the Council of Europe and that we're not in the Election Law. That's not true, gentlemen. We are all here for Election Law, not Election Law, which directly condemns the rights of people to return and remain civil rights. We can't appreciate what's constitutional or not. The only authority is the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court to appreciate the constitutionality of the law whether it is something constitutional. We appreciate whether there is a constitutional basis for the debate, and that has already been said by the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House. I just insist that we here do not turn the Council of Europe into a master horn inability to reach a political consensus on very important things. Please, nice. We have often abused this constitution as it is. P2. The pattern is not the opposite of the Constitution. There is a need for a political concession for reasons that the Party for BiH has repeatedly. I would only point out that the High Representative gave the paper information that 530,000 people wander this country and that there is no order in this 35 country until they return and P2. It's a pattern to narrow down, I assure you. The second issue of constitutional position remained two peoples in Republika Srpska and one nation in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These nations do not have constitutional legal protection. We saw this in Banja Luka for one cornerstone needs 1,000 cops and everything. How an individual in Republika Srpska will gain his protection if he does not establish a good instrument such as the House of Peoples that every citizen can be safe and reliable to live in a democratic environment as a citizen. We have no democratic environment or democratic instruments. Bosnia and Herzegovina's party insists on giving first of all on this P2. We cannot ignore the interests of 530,000 people in their homes and change the structure and demographic structure of each of these cities that are threatened, and there are dozens of them. And we cannot allow the House of People not to protect the rights of Bošnjak and Hrvat in Republika Srpska and Srbin in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This does not conflict with the Constitution and does not conflict with any convention that is an integral part of our constitution in Article 2. The BiH Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4323	Thank you. Who still answers the word Dr Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4324	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honored guests, I don't think these maneuvers of individual parties and individual MPs will take us anywhere. We won't find a better solution than we had last night. Last night we interrupted the session at the very end. So the rest was just a statement, a practical vote. Mr. Šešivarević asked for a break of 1/2 hours before the vote. However, the break later turned into a long wait until late last night so that today we would also have some consultations all day, looking for solutions. But as far as I can tell, we're not gonna find any other solution. We have a proposal before us, a proposal from the Council of Ministers on which we need to make a statement. The club I belong to has made one of the greatest efforts, patience. We gave room to the Alliance's clients yes, that's how we figured it out. That's what the chairman of last night's session said about letting the consultation take place so that tomorrow we could support this law with the largest majority. That's right. You can take a stenogram and check it out. But this time has been used for some maneuvers, trying to find other solutions. Gentlemen, we all have our objections to this law. We have withdrawn our amendments from the reality of the relationship of power in this House. If we go back to this, analyze each of our amendments as my predecessor used to say, we can sit for five days and never adopt the Electoral Law. So it's about time. We have to face the truth. We have to vote. To make your views known. We have a democratic right to be both for and against. We must be aware of both the responsibilities and the importance of the fact whether this parliament will adopt this law or not. The price of that entry into the Council of Europe. We cannot underestimate the importance of Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the Council of Europe. All those who speak differently must be aware of the responsibilities the team assumes. So, I think we've exhausted all the possibilities, that we've come to the point where we have to vote. We need to make a statement. We have the right to be both for and against. We need to be aware of the responsibilities and consequences that we take on the team thanks. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4325	Thank you, Ambassador Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4326	Respected Presidency, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, the situation is such that I hold that things need to be reduced to their most naked I would say the formal legal dimension. Yesterday, the procedure for voting on amendments and for the non-recognizable injury was severely injured and the responsibility of the House Presidency was not corrected, the House's laying and secretary, but all of us MPs in the House of Representatives are bearing it to a certain extent, and members of the Constitutional Commission, because they allowed the procedure to be violated in the elements that are constitutionally defined. So today we have a technical formal legal situation like this: - The College has declared that it cannot agree. We need their recognition that they cannot agree within the next two days as long as the deadline for agreeing amendments that did not have 1/3 from one entity is foreseen. If they tell us now or in two days that they have not agreed to the House, they should declare the amendments that have received the majority, by making a decision and, of course, the amendments for which more than 2/3 of the MPs from one entity will be rejected. It's formally legal and it's the only solution in this situation. I remind you, we came to this because we didn't take care of the procedure. It begins with members of the Presidency of our home, through the secretary to each of us MPs. We are all responsible for the violation of constitutionally defined procedural standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4327	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. First is Ambassador Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4328	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues. I would agree with my colleague, Neimarlija, but, you know, first of all, we as legalists need to be consistent, if we want to succeed in our intentions to respect the prescribed procedure. It's a prerequisite for quality decision-making. Because, you know, if yours were to be accepted, then we punish all those MPs who have given up their amendments. Please, we realized yesterday that 103 amendments were made to this law. And now all those MPs or clubs that are of respect and importance to the adoption of this law and to accept compromises in order to achieve a quality solution, respecting both the Constitution and respecting the business procedure, have given up their amendments. So, of the 103 amendments, we refuse 8 that's how much I can figure out if 93 is, and those who didn't want to give up without respecting the Constitution, because they're against constitutional ones. Gentlemen, I will defend myself, here and defend myself, but we cannot defend ourselves against certain facts. So not respecting a compromise either. Well, in my opinion, we're all going to legalise their actions together, and punish 93 amendments, and we're not going to discuss them at all. If we're going to go back into procedure, she's found herself like I'm completely against a procedural hole, so to speak. With what intentions, there are many who have said that I would not speak qualifications, then it is fair for gentlemen to return to the parliamentary procedure of all 103 amendments. And I don't think that would be a quality solution and that would be the way to pass the Electoral Law. Indeed 37 I must, as an MP and as a man, say that it is unnecessary to bring into such a chorus of juice and blocking the work, and we are going to be late after the debate that has been held, in a very democratic way and from 5 o'clock in the afternoon, so, here we are now five o'clock this afternoon, we are doing what we are doing. And that is not what the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina see, but they will feel and know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4329	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4330	Since the Constitutional and Legal Committee is mentioned here, Mr Neimarlija, whose member you are, I think you well know what the jurisdiction of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is and we do not have the right to warn. The Rules of Procedure interprets the College. And I ask you not to transfer responsibility here to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, nor to me as an MP, I accept neither, because it is perfectly clear that the Rules of Procedure interprets the Kolegijum. Since the gentlemen that the Kolegijum has no consensus whether or not the procedure has been violated, so the chairman said, I am here to help resolve this proposal on the basis of Article 20(2). Rules of Procedure: - A statement according to the conclusion : – A procedure has been violated during the declaration of amendments to the BiH election law proposed by the Council of Ministers. Let's face it. Who's in, who thinks she's not broken? Let us simply declare ourselves in accordance with this article, as it is provided for in Article 20(2), if the concession does not have a College, the decision shall be taken by the House. We now have to make a decision here, whether or not it is a breach of procedure. I mean, by referring to article 65, I don't think the procedure is broken, because that's where it says the chairman can, and that means he doesn't have to do something that he has to do, and I want this to go over and we're going to vote. Let's not waste any time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4331	Ambassador Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4332	Of course I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4333	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, my statement is individual meanings as representatives. I want to correct a few false allegations not to mention them. And all those who mention parties, clubs and commissions. We're in the plea phase. There's no discussion that's started without an agreement on the debate. Section 6. The Rules of Procedure, which treats decision-making, states Article 63: - The vote of each representative is personal and cannot be delegated. In the complete procedure, there is no party or political leaders who put pressure on the home and obstruct it. There's no party at the moment. There are 38 only MPs and Kolegijum here who need to complete the procedure they've begun. I insist on the position of MPs in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4334	I thank Ambassador Amidžić. poslanik Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4335	I only owe a few sentences without, of course, the intention of polymizing with my colleague Banjac. On the contrary, this is not a replica just to try a small supplement. We are yesterday and my colleague Mijatović will surely remember because he supports his position on amendments that have been excluded from the procedure, on the Constitutional and Legal Committee asked the question, I personally asked what is wrong with the remaining amendments, because we came to plead as the Constitutional and Legal Committee on Eight and from the chairman of the House we received information that the parties and MPs, or MPs, withdrew those amendments in this final procedure, is one thing and another. Yesterday, since we first faced the obligation to define ourselves as the Constitutional and Legal Committee and according to the amendments, we agreed that one is our jurisdiction, or one is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional First Commission, but the other is, as I say, the obligation to react to all acts of this House, which are in any way related to the Constitution. I also put my discussion on it, and I expect my colleague, Mijatović, to appreciate it. Otherwise, I believe there are only two options, or what I have suggested or what my colleague Banjac has suggested to declare whether the procedure is hurt or not. Are we going to accept that we've made a mistake and that we're going to move on or we're going to say that we've made a mistake and that we need to make it right, that's the only two options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4336	Ambassador Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4337	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, I will only draw one fact, one of the predecessors here stated that today it will be clear who it is for the entry of BiH into the Council of Europe who is not. I want to draw something, because the Party of Democratic Action said very clearly yesterday, MPs from the party that the Bill of Elections, without these amendments which were by the Party for BiH and our amendment to P2 and about the home of the people, cannot accept, for one simple reason and for a simple fact that in this way, this House has been verified by not adopting this amendment, that genocide and ethnic cleansing is worth it. We can never stand behind this, and we will thus eliminate the human and civil rights of all BiH citizens, and therefore I say very clearly, there is no debate on whether they will stand behind such an electoral law, as far as SDA MPs are concerned. We are in favour of entering the Council of Europe and the Party of Democratic Action could have had a hundred objections to this law and there are, but indeed, because when we entered Parliament and became an opposition, we said that we wanted to be a cooperative opposition useful and to direct the work of both Parliament and the Council of Ministers and therefore did not go with many amendments. Our minimum in these compromise requirements, these are these two amendments and no one can tell us that we are not operational and that no one can tell us that we are not to enter the Council of Europe, but we are not to enter the Council of Europe with electoral law, which will be the quality of life for people in that country last in the Council of Europe. We want to enter the 39th Council of Europe with an electoral law, which we will not blush and be ashamed of before the other members of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4338	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. poslanik Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4339	Gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I'd just like to say a few words. I notice there's a tendency here to go back to the past and go back to the past at all costs. I don't know what that's for. We've been through all this matter about the bill of electoral law, we've been through all the procedures, and in my opinion, everything's been going normal, and all of a sudden everything needs to be revised, everything needs to be disembarked, everything needs to be believed, and now it needs to be done from the beginning. Should I baptize it with some diversion or demagogue or some revision, I don't know, but it seems unnecessary. I'd just like to say a few things. In my opinion, everything that has been done so far in connection with this bill of electoral law has been normal and has been civilised. It was at one legal level and it was on one moral level. It seems to me that a certain consensus has been reached and that all parties, or all of our peoples living in this area, are more important than the parties. The parties are just brewers of crystal, from today to tomorrow, alive, perhaps for a while they will cease living these parties and will not be current, but the peoples living in these areas will be eternal and will be dominant and will always be current. What I'm saying is that in this bill of electoral law, all our peoples have found the right place and found what they need. What some say, if we were to come to Europe with this electoral law or at the door of Europe, is what it is to be ashamed and to come with some deficitary things. I don't think that stands. I've never seen anything stand in this proposal that would embarrass us in front of this Western Europe. So I think that everything that's been done so far would have to be respected and had to be affirmed and just to do what's next compared to what's done, done. No revisions and no hesitations. So, we just say we want Europe, we want laws, and when we make that kind of thing, and some of the laws and suggestions and things like that, when we've already prepared that matter, and when we just need that step and it's important to do it, then somebody says, "Let's go back and this is not good, and then we're crying about where this Bosnia is, which is why she didn't go, that's why. I'm begging you, let's give some seriousness, some reason, so that this all ends, and this is a three-hour break, and by some towers, some arrangements, some mixing, some bagging, I don't think it's going to take us anywhere. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4340	I thank Ambassador Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4341	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will do the same as everyone here who has sworn to Europe and we swear to Europe. The BiH party supports the initiative to adopt the bill maximum. We are fighting for this law to be identical and not discrimination against any people in BiH. We're against the law. We're down 40 against entering Europe, but we're against such a discriminatory law. There's no way we're going over P2. Gentlemen of '96, the Party for BiH initiated the removal of this famous position P2. Mr. Frovik, who was then in place of Beri, promised us that, even we have written confirmation, but he didn't do anything about it. Mr. Beri has now promised that in this new bill, there will be no discriminating member. Gentlemen, that amendment does not conflict with the Constitution. We do not prevent anyone from voting first, nor does anyone have the right to take away someone first or actively or passively. But gentlemen, whoever wants to vote actively or passively can't vote from my house, that's the problem. As for re-election and re-election on the agenda of the amendments. We saw yesterday who voted for them who didn't. Yesterday it was clear and loud to see what was going on. Second, Mr. Titan, I'm going to call you and tell you that you have a reason for replication. You insist on the House of Peoples in the Federation and do not support the home of the people in RS. Which is why the Bosniak people are protecting themselves in RS. Say it now, come out and say it. We are looking for a non-discriminatory relationship in choosing the Federation of BiH, RS and so on. Are you taking this as evil for us? Is that why we're not in Europe?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4342	It is very ugly to hear from this pay phone when those who have spoken say, we need to pass electoral law, we need to be in the Council of Europe, with now and those who have proposed it and those who have chosen the Council of Ministers and have proposed the law, now say that this law is discriminatory. That's very ugly. It is an indicator of the ability of those who lead and represent this people. So does that mean that we are who we are for the law, which we are for the Council of Europe, that we pass the law and accept the law that discriminates. No, I don't. This law is a compromise of all political parties here in this House. The Croatian Democratic Community, or its club, has given up 55 amendments, with the goal of resolving the situation. Secondly, Mr. Šašivarević said that HDZ, or club, these HDZ representatives are for the home of the people in Republika Srpska and I said clearly, but I did not violate the constitution, or that we are bringing something that is unconstitutional and that has no constitutional basis. The moment that it is, it is clear to all MPs from RS that we are our position, but we are not in that principle, then tomorrow you will say and here you will vote unitary BiH, where the Croatian people will be a national minority. We protect the BiH Constitution, the Federation Constitution and the RS Constitution. We're basically, we're basically about bringing in what's in accordance with the constitutions. If we start breaking the Constitution, and let's say, go complain to the Constitutional Court, what does that mean, what do we want? Like we want BiH. As we wish in the Council of Europe. My suggestion is, I don't know can be allowed to interrupt this discussion. I support Mr. Banjac's proposal to vote on this whether or not a failure has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4343	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, from previous discussions obviously we have made a procedural mistake, which can be put on the souls of all of us, some more than others less obvious. Citing the constitution as chairman, 41 made it quite clear that it is a constitutional category at the moment. We made a procedural mistake. Mr. Banjac has no right like no one here in this room asks us to work against the BiH Constitution. So, you can't ask for a statement whether we're going to work by the Constitution or not. A procedural error has been made. In that sense, I insist that a follow-up be carried out. Yes, you asked here for this speaker to vote whether we're going to continue in that system or not. So, please, the procedure has been hurt, it's a finding that's quite clear here. The BiH Constitution has handled this matter quite nicely. If a procedural garage is made, let's move on to where we need to do it under protocol. I also express my surprise that at several sessions already presented experts on protocol and regulations. They didn't remember the time to intervene. Yesterday late in the evening, when there was an opportunity to make a mistake that made us sit here again today and continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4344	Don't worry, boy, about beauty. If I told you, I wouldn't replicate if I didn't have to, and I wouldn't even mention this, but for the public's sake. It Menine to me that I'm slowing down the Constitution, rather than fighting to respect the sir, and the procedure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, not by the Constitution, sir. The procedure is not prescribed by the Constitution. That's what the first year of high school students know. Furthermore, in order to overcome the problem, I have suggested the only possible solution. I've said and I repeat, and please don't fail us. Now it turns out, my lady, that it's our fault that you scheduled the session today. I think it's our fault you won't vote. I'm afraid you're asking us to persuade you not to vote. We're not going to force you not to vote. We urge you to vote. I tell you gentlemen the chairman. I'm begging you, this delay doesn't lead to anything. First of all, you are obliged to honor the Poslvonik and you are the only one who interprets him. That's exactly what we said at the Expansive College right now. Why don't you gentlemen intervene on the Psolovnik? The three of you didn't achieve consent, whether the procedure was violated or not. The three of you didn't achieve consent. The only way out is Article 20(2) to vote on the House, since you have not reached agreement. If she votes to be damaged, let's get rid of it. If he votes not, let's vote on the law. Don't delay, you won't achieve anything. You'll have to put it to a vote sometime. You have to put it in order to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4345	That's not controversial. I, too, must once again, on the request of MPs, at the time of the chairman of Mr Mirko Banjac's House of Representatives, OHR gave an opinion and interpreted the BiH Constitution on the application of Article 4.3.d. The BiH Constitution to vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. I read article 4.3.d. It's not an injured procedure. So we have three days to agree on the amendments that, they didn't get the entity majority, not the clock. Not to read again. Once again, I say, if this one, which means the chairman and his deputies will work as a commission, try to reach agreement within 3 days of the vote. If these efforts fail, decisions will be made by a majority of 42 votes of those present and voting, provided that the votes against them do not include two-thirds or more delegates or members elected from each entity. It is the highest interpretation of the OHR and the BiH Constitution. So, absolutely the Rules of Procedure are subject to the Constitution, constitutional provisions. This was an interpretation that the OHR gave to seek MP Mirko Banjac at the time of the chairman's House of Representatives. Thank you. There's no replica on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4346	There's no way.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4347	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4348	After all, I can replicate it, too, it's my right. I'm not afraid of anything. I know that the highest law of this country is the Constitution, and don't lecture me here and don't mention my name and don't ask for it because I repeat something. You, sir, read what you want. Read article 65 that says exactly what you missed. You say you can do it there. I once again warn that member and please, since you again, I repeat, please don't do this from the House, let the House plead. Only under Article 20(2) is that possible. It didn't expire, did the College have a consensus that the Constitution was broken? There isn't. The completed procedure is gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4349	The college as a commission has not cleared consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4350	Please don't talk about the commission. You couldn't even sit down, because by article 65, you were in debt, he says he can take a 60-minute break. You didn't do it. You've brought the session to an end. Sir, that's your problem. It's not my problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4351	Three days, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4352	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4353	Three days, Mr. Banjac, the Constitution of BiH. I'm žalo, the Rules of Procedure are subordinate to the Constitution. The Constitution is a fundamental document of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4354	The procedure does not prescribe the Constitution. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4355	I'm sorry, Mr. Banjac. The Constitution is a fundamental document of this state.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4356	Whose name are you speaking for?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4357	I speak for myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4358	Then get out here and talk, and you can't put what you want to vote, but what the College does.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4359	Okay. poslanik Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4360	I would like to ask that the fact that yesterday was a harshly injured procedure and we can't plead whether she was hurt or not. We can plead, however, to be precise to the end, we can only plead whether we will correct the mistakes or agree that the chairman has concluded it and that by accepting those mistakes, we will move on. So it could be a statement like that, or we could agree to this interpretation that he offered and chairing to be given to them, because just in accordance with Article 65 I would ask everyone to read it. The chairman has a formal right to say that it is only the second day, because yesterday the presidency did not agree before the vote, and please, if we are to plead at this time. The confession can only be made by me, because we're all responsible, please, because we're all responsible, because yesterday didn't respond to injuries. These are constitutional elements, which define the procedure, which is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Procedures in constitutionally defined elements of the procedure have been injured. We can only make it clear, it's a productive question, it's not a question of whether it's offended or not. She is offended because the essential element of the procedure is missing again. We can, therefore, make it clear that we will accept that with the mistake that has been committed, we will move on or we will correct the mistake. That's the real question for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4361	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, today as my representative, is only an important result. Whether these procedural and other stories of ours can lead to us having an electoral law, which will be a consensus. If one of us, any of us, thinks he can hide behind a procedure, it's very difficult. Given that these Rules of Procedure and the Constitution are mixed here, I know that this may not be all the issue and the Constitutional Commission, but I would suggest that we might consider, in one instance, that the Constitutional Commission should also consider these issues and let them have an opinion. That's not an opinion that's a decision. I know even the Constitutional Commission can't interpret the Constitution, but perhaps an opinion that can help us in the extreme case when home decides here. I say, 44 regardless of the attitudes of the College and the Constitutional Commission and any other, the ultimate word has the House as a whole body. So, I suggest we consider maybe taking a break, taking a moment or, and just sitting down and trying to give an opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4362	We're actually doing a circus here. Here's what we're reading here. Niko one disputes the suggestion, or interpretation of OHR related to the Constitution. That is clear when it comes to Article 4.3.d. But that same way is prescribed in section 6. So it's a procedure that goes and goes. This part of you could also dispute Article 65(1). If you thought so, then you could but you didn't have to. That's the whole story. You closed the debate last night, because Mr. Šašivarević asked for a half-hour break before the amendment was concluded, and you concluded the debate. So, further procedures you have no way out. This is the only combination, when it comes to voting, or that someone can give an interpretation, and no one can individually say that the procedure has been injured, to say, I now say that no procedure has been injured, because you could have and you couldn't. So she's not hurt by the procedure. I'm saying it's not, because you thought the moment you didn't need it and don't ask someone to come out here individually and say the procedure was hurt. Who are you to say that she's hurt or who I am that I can say that. Therefore, the only way to say is if the College cannot agree to use Article 20(2). The Rules of Procedure, and you have no consent. If you can't, give Dom a vote. It's your only solution. Are we going to outwit each other here, whether it's the Rules of Procedure, whether we should do this or what, or those who think we shouldn't pass the law, or that something is wrong with the law that is not acceptable to them and let the gentlemen out for whom they dispute and the representative tell them. Gentlemen, it's a questionable class and that the public knows what it is and what it's all about. What are we talking about? Look, if it's a broken one, some people feel guilty that no amendment has been adopted. Well, it hasn't been adopted as many amendments. We'll get all the amendments back when it comes to procedures, so what happens? We're gonna make a circus. Secondly, I have to say this, this screw-up that's going on is a serious delusion that's been made by an extended college. We went out to meet maximum, and we warned last night that it wouldn't happen. It was said clearly in the enlarged college. There's nothing but a vote. Give us time. Mr. Bogićević, the SDP has been looking for you, you said. There's no problem. Chairman, give us time to agree our views to pass the law, to have a consensus on the law. We said, no problem, if it's true, if anything's gonna change by tomorrow, there's no problem. What do we want now? Let's see what kind of law we want, let's hear the suggestions of those who think we shouldn't pass this law. What they think should be brought that is in accordance with the Constitution. I think it's very ugly and making circuses out of this house, if we really want to hold on to the dignity of this home, then we have to respect the procedure. She's who she is. To whom she does not answer, there is a Constitutional Court, may the Constitutional Court be appealed and corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4363	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Is anyone else answering for word? I once again find out, the College narrows down and in the function of the commission there is no agreement. I ask you 45, the House may decide not to vote and not to declare itself again in terms of the disturbed entity majority on the absence of the entity majority and that it is a compromise to declare whether it will again simply plead on every amendment of 8-9 of them that received the parliamentary majority and did not get the entity majority. Could this be a possible compromise? It's a possible compromise. The proposal is next. That the House declares whether nine amendments that have received most have simply not received an entity majority will be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4364	(speaks from the site)
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4365	You can have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4366	Please, I have proposed a conclusion and that conclusion is required to be made in accordance with Article 20(2). You didn't agree as a College, and don't you formulate my conclusion. As an MP, Mr. Avdić, you have the right, the full right to suggest a new conclusion, next to mine, and to make that conclusion clear. I have nothing against it. But you can't deny the first MP to make a statement about the proposal for my conclusion. Don't read my conclusion. I can read.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4367	Will you explain this conclusion to us? Mr Mirjanić is not clear either.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4368	It's beautiful here. I just heard here from you gentlemen, that you disagreed. Don't you agree whether the procedure has been violated or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4369	No, no, it's not true. Working as a commission, we did not agree, acting under Article 4.3d. That's why we disagreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4370	Oh, please. When did you do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4371	We worked this morning.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4372	Did you discuss whether the procedure was violated or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4373	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4374	That's not what you discussed. What were you discussing?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4375	We discussed Article 4.3d.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4376	I don't understand any of this. Why don't you explain it first, and I'll be there.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4377	It's quite clear. I have already read twice, if most do not include one third of the votes of delegates or members of the territory of each entity, the chairman and his deputies, acting as commission, will seek to reach agreement within three days of the vote. We had a meeting this morning, and we didn't get a say in this. It doesn't matter, Mr. Graobvac. I beg you, this is a constitutional decree. No Niko has the right to violate the Constitution, and it doesn't say anything when the debate is over or when it's voted. If these efforts fail, decisions will be made by a majority of those present and voting on the condition that votes against them do not include two-thirds or more delegates or members elected from each entity. This has nothing to do with Article 20 of the College's alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4378	Please, I'm asking for a statement in front of the House and the other two members you spoke of, to see if you know, I want to hear what you were talking about this morning. Mr Mirjanić and Mr Ljubić...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4379	Fellow Members, guests, the position of the SDA is that, however we interpret last night's conclusion of the debate, as a mistake or as an introduction at the time of the collapsing of the College, that you are the second round of declaration on amendments that did not receive the entity majority, should be repeated because this requires constitutional provisions, procedures in our home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4380	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Neimarlija. poslanik Mirjanić, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4381	Gentlemen, honored guests, honourable MPs, you know there was a meeting of the Colleges this morning. No consent has been reached. My view is that the prescribed procedure is respected, according to Articles 95 and 96. Rules of Procedure. It's a special regulation, which regulates the law-making process. 47 Since there is no agreement in the College, it is necessary to approach the vote and remain for the House to declare itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4382	Is there anyone else to discuss? I am obliged to honor the Constitution of this state. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4383	I suggest and if the process is already needed to make this decision, it means voting, given that there are indications for some maneuvers in which we, too, have warned last night in this direction probably, one part knows one of us doesn't. I think anything anyone tries to do, take responsibility for themselves and take responsibility for BiH's further fate. A maneuver that may be trying to do so from the BiH presidency, I would call on a Croatian member of the presidency from this booth and if he did not have Croatian votes, not to do so by chance, because Otto is something that is neither good nor moral or anything else. Although I thought I'd refrain from seeing how it's going to go on. I'm asking the question here. Did a letter from the BiH presidency come to the Kolegijum to prepare the law for the tomorrow and the plenary session of both homes. Does the College know that or the individuals in the College, so I'll move on?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4384	It's irrelevant to the thinking of this home. The presidency is an authoritative body and in this context let it do its part of the job. I, it's possible that in the breaks he came, but objectively we're not familiar with that letter from the College of the House of Representatives. So I repeat again, if most do not include one third of the votes of delegates and members of the territory of each entity, the chairman and his deputies will work as a commission to seek agreement within three days of the vote. They didn't achieve consent. If these efforts fail, the decision will be taken by a majority of those present and voting, provided that the votes against them do not include two-thirds or more delegates or members elected from each entity. This is a detailed interpretation of the BiH Constitution. I ask you to pass these nine amendments and plead. They didn't get most yesterday, they probably won't get any today, that we respect the BiH Constitution. I don't have any other alternatives, and I can't do anything else. Please state the amendments that didn't get the entity majority yesterday and we're starting with a vote. Amendment I. I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4385	Business intervention. Mr. Chairman, I request a vote on your trust right now, because you here deliberately abuse your function. You can't, as chairman of the College, make a consensus. Mr Mirjanić said, "If there is no consensus on the issue, the House must declare itself," not the amendments. Don't put us in that position. To what extent this is all going. Gentlemen of the international public, these are the inventions of the provoking of the honest people of MPs who wait here two days and three years before that for the electoral law, so that the same people will always do what they do to us. Please, 48, don't abuse the position. You have no right to speak on behalf of the Kolegijum from that place, but as an MP from this place. If you don't have a consensus, then you don't have a consensus. I'm begging you don't abuse anymore. I've offered a conclusion that should go to the vote. You have no right, I ask that you immediately and now declare my conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4386	The Constitution is not to be discussed whether or not to be voted. The Constitution obliges this home to be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4387	Where does the Constitution speak of amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4388	He's also talking about all the decisions that apply in this home. poslanik Tošić, Stokić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4389	Dear gentlemen, as long as we're exhausted here. Don't we have a minimum of respect for ourselves and for these guests and for the international community and the public who's been following us these two days? Nobody here is stupid or blind to know what we said last night. How did we close this session last night? What are these manipulations? Who now pulls the Constitution. Here, you have the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court finds that this is legal, it has a procedure to run it and bring it to an end. I don't know, the international community is here. This is every normal man who's been watching this session since yesterday clearly what's going on here. We've brought the session to an end. We just need to be clear, that we have the courage to speak our mind. Are we for this election law or not? No manipulation, no further maneuvers will get us out of that act. Therefore, we have this electoral law. We need to make a statement about him. If you want this home to work as correctly as it does. If you don't, we'll be forced to leave this session and not participate in her work on this issue. Let's be correct. Let's put this to a vote. It's the only way. We agreed on the amendments yesterday, and that's the end of the deal. We can't put that back on the agenda again. It's stupid of the same thing to say twice, the same people in the same session. That's clear. Here you are, Chairman, your work is at stake. You will not trust these MPs here if you continue to hold a session. You're abuser of your function at the moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4390	That's not true. I'm just defending the BiH Constitution. Ambassador Bjelobrk. No, I stick to the BiH Constitution. I swore to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4391	So far, I've managed to keep this part of the comprehensive debate concerning the Rules of Procedure quiet. I've also consulted some people, who I think know this matter well, and I advise you on so much patience, no matter what it seems like I'm going to do again, it's about some precision, the differences between constitutional norm and our member 60. And someone in the Rules of Procedure. It is right that those who have reinterpreted the business norm on the second round of voting under the firm may and any implications that go with it, but I will ask you to just check in Article 4.3.d. The next three keywords. They say, therefore, when all this procedure has been exhausted which the College has informed us about, then, if these efforts fail, and they have confirmed that they fail, decisions will be made, therefore, imperative norm and I ask you to approach this second round, so who is also the member of our 60th Rules of Procedure, but under the company “can”. It says it's imperative that we bring it in and it's still been quoted not to mention it and to finish the job, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4392	Ambassador Amidžić. Thank you, Ambassador Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4393	Gentlemen chairman and fellow MPs, I feel a hostage from yesterday from this time to this day. This is a political press on people and on me personally, as an individual. You have no procedural right to rape some people here. If you keep doing this, I will personally leave the session, regardless of the club's views. I used to work here when some people didn't work. I'm a hostage. It's a ten-minute break and it's two hours, gentlemen. I can't go to the bathroom, waiting for you. I don't want to be a hostage of this condition. If one more move continues, I will leave the session, regardless of how the HDZ Club and the Durgih set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4394	I thank Ambassador Amidžić. Ambassador Baković
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4395	Gentlemen, I am not insolent to join the series of those who spoke, but I also appreciate my opinion and my position on this and I want to present it. It is unnecessary to vote on the vote – voted. It's a final act and that final act was by all legal, moral, administrative and political lusts and who dex ours was then ours at the height. There was no mistake, but if we were to do it, then we should consider undoing everything we've done, so when the energy is spent let it be spent. I would like to say that we must take care here and now of our work and of the dignity of this home, because of the dignity of this home, depends on the dignity of the BiH state. This kind of work, this innocuousness, this dilettanteism, in my opinion deserves every criticism, and this can't happen. The first thing that exhausts people, and the second thing that every positive and creative shift forward is always questionable and devalued and I don't know how to do, what to do, what visions should have and what assumptions. I ask for seriousness and one correctness. Our people in BiH are looking beyond, watching. You see that media is perfect and that all of this is reflected in the visual and auditory sense, therefore, it must be taken into account. I don't mind that some people and individual parties take their views, express their opinions, 50 even that opinion can be sometimes and to say character, but some diversion and the like, but I also don't have anything against it, but we'd have to make sure that something rests on a healthy logic, on reason, on some intelligence, whether it makes any rational sense in itself. Politics is thresholds, it's opportunism, it's majavelistism, but this has gone beyond me. So we're wasting our time, we're killing each other like this in a way of depleting, etc. I think there should be an account about it sometime. We've got breaks for four or five hours, some wandering, some talking. Negotiations are now being made behind some towers, in some towers, in some special conversations, some masseurs come from the side, some special people etc. and simply we here, which the people have chosen, are either putting ourselves before the final act, or are somehow a decor, or are simply our vote, our raise-up, commitment has no meaning at all, and I ask you to imagine on the team, that once we stop it, that we do something to create something, that we don't say so in vain here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4396	I thank Ambassador Baković. Ambassador Jovnaović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4397	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really not going to talk about the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution, I think it's clear here. It is clear that there is a conflict in the Alliance for Change, so the parties that make up the Alijansa for Change. A concrete conflict in the Social Democratic Party and Foreigners for BiH. They can't agree, or agree on the electoral law and everything that's happening to us, these two days is what I just said. So that's the point and that's the fact. I beg you, Mr. President, that when you finished last night, that is, when you took a break and said we should continue today and you said we were voting on the electoral law that we adopted here and all you had to do was do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4398	I thank Ambassador Jovanović. Ambassador Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4399	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely say that I am disappointed by this discussion, by the actions of a colleague who claims and has no arguments that there is a conflict in the Alliance. I don't know what that claim is based on. I am truly responding that there is no conflict in the Alliance. What do you want, gentlemen? You want to force us to vote on what doesn't correspond to this people, for which the victims have fallen. Tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands have fallen for this country. No Niko has the right to play with the fate of this country. We've shed a lot of blood, and we won't let anyone play with the fate of this country. Tens of thousands of workers are out on the street unemployed and we're just strutting around here and talking some crazy shit. The BiH party has come to an end correctly and morally. He has this constitutional right. She proposed amendments. They weren't adopted. No problem. We won't vote, we have the right to protect our views. We're not mad at anyone. You vote whatever you want. What gives you the right to impose upon us and to object to us and to transfer responsibility to the Party for BiH, or to the Alliance, or to the SDP and the Party for BiH. You need to keep an eye on what you're saying about this pay phone. Thank you, lyapa. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4400	I thank Ambassador Begović. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4401	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, one similar situation in the last meeting we had regretted having to put one voice on the other, or implement the decision-making procedure until the end. So I suggest, let's be reasonable and implement the procedure that remains, that is, Article 65 point 4 through the end, or let's be clear about whether two-thirds of the entity is against these amendments, so that the procedure is complete, and then we vote on the law. I think that's the solution, with the presidents having to publicly take over, let's say, Banjac's suggestion, because he asked for their resignation, because they made procedural mistakes. Now he draws his own conclusion. Error, not implemented until the end. Let's get her first while she has time and see if we have the law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4402	I thank Ambassador Malkić. Is anyone else answering for the word? Should I read the Constitution again? You don't have to. It's more efficient, I think it's more effective to go to the vote and make a statement about these nine amendments that didn't get an entity majority yesterday, and I think it's correct and that we simply end up and vote on the electoral law, we'll come to a solution. Can we go like that?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4403	Do you have the consent of the Kolegijum?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4404	I have to respect the Constitution. The College cannot derivate constitutional provisions that are not for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4405	Dear MPs, I, as a member of the College, cannot interpret the Constitution of BiH, I think that in this direction and was one of the proposals of the MPs, that one who is an interpreter according only to aneks x, Article 50, should interpret this question to us. You put too much burden on us to interpret. I don't really want to take his right to say yes to anyone. You know, as this law will pass I don't know, you have another law in which you can all make things right. I direct you immediately to compromise on the other law and to have the election law tonight. So, I suggest that we ask the OHR, the OHR can give it very quickly, one attitude – an interpretation that we go then, so he says if you don't have the procedural opportunities to adopt this law, you have right after that, when you have lunch or dinner the electoral law where I will be very broad hands and accept everything you agree to.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4406	Thank you, Ambassador Ljubić. poslanik Grabovac
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4407	I'm really sorry that it's really true, this house is blasphemed, to say so, and to some people who, I think, are certainly responsible and honorable people who are put in a position that they really have to come into that position. Here, come on, there will be a vote on what gentlemen do. Nothing can be achieved. First of all, it's completely clear where the problem is. It's so clear where the problem is, about the amendments that have been voted on, the procedure has passed, it's over, but if this were accepted, fate is the same. Secondly, trust must be gained between us. It can't be done while we're talking here, we're dragging the sessions tactically, to get the presidency to make a new law and come out with that proposal. You see how democracy is in BiH and how we want the Council of Europe to deceive those who are for the Council of Europe. In truth, there is this document, Mr. Chairman, and it's come and you're the only one who has it. I'd like you to meet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4408	Here, now he's here right now. It's a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4409	What a coincidence.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4410	I'm asking you, this memo is not the subject of the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4411	I want to say why this session is taking place, which wants an electoral law, which wants BiH to join the Council of Europe for a vote, to break up really with the discussion, no matter what. Those who do not want to discuss and then will know who is against BiH, its law and the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4412	poslanik Grabovac, I warn you not to use a terminology that is not suitable for this home. The second thing, such a system of provocation, is absolutely not appropriate. I would like to ask if the OHR representative can interpret what we have repeated three times, because it is the Constitution of BiH. If there's no political will to vote on it, there's no problem. The record is there and I can simply put the electoral law to the vote. That's right. There's no problem. The political will of the House of Representatives will not respect constitutional provisions and we will vote on the electoral law. I ask the OHR's representative to say and to be seen for interpretation of the interpretation of this member of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4413	Ladies and gentlemen, I will address this House for one reason only, and that is because I have been specifically invited to address you. My name is Helen Bajker, I'm a political advisor to OHR. I am not in a position or authorized to interpret the Constitution now. But I would also find it very strange, if all this delay would put on the OHR, the High Representative of the morning travels to Strasbourg, I wrote 53 of his speech and my speech, in that speech there are very positive recommendations for BiH to join the Council of Europe. There are no misunderstandings attached to this membership. The rapporteur from the Council of Europe addressed this bill and indicated a clear link between the adoption of this law and BiH's accession to the Council of Europe and I think that you should take care of it. Any procedure can be politicized. That's what we saw when it was on the agenda of the adoption of imposed laws. We then expressed our position and he was not taken seriously. I don't think there's anything I can offer you right now that could solve this crisis. If this is a mature Parliament, the decision is in your hands. It is up to you to reach a political compromise and I really don't believe that anything the OHR or the OSCE could do at this point to help resolve this situation. If you want the Office of the High Representative to interpret the Constitution, of course you can ask for it, but you can't get that interpretation here and now. That's definitely it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4414	Now very clear things are differentiated. I personally request an interpretation of the BiH Constitution on the emerging problem of the adoption of 11 amendments that were held at a session of 20.6. o.G. Since we do not have a clear legal interpretation by OHR, we are moving to an act of voting on the electoral law. I think that there have been preconditions to plead and in this context to respond to everything that has happened in the past weeks, months, from the aspect of the adoption of the electoral law. Everyone has their share of responsibility. Political clubs are part of their responsibilities, but especially MPs who have the mandate to use and represent citizens who chose them on the open lists. Thank you for all these discussions. I would ask you to forget these difficult words and terminology that is not suitable for this high home and in this context we are going to vote on the electoral law, the Council of Ministers proposal, which came from the 18 amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, realizing that yesterday's 11 amendments did not receive the necessary entity majority. Who's in favour of the election law being passed? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? The entity majority should also be checked. Who's from the RS area to get the law passed? Thank you. Who is from the Federacje area to be passed, from the Federation? Thank you. Can we get the results? There are 39 MPs present. It voted for 16 – against 12 – abstention 11 and the total was for and against, because abstentions were 28. By entities. From the Federation area voted 5. From the RS area voted 11 for. The law did not receive the necessary entity majority under Article 4(3)d. Goes to agree and after the conclusion of the vote on the plea of Mr Ljubić's law, we will take a break and try to agree on the electoral law. Thank you. Ljubić suggests a break right away. Thank you, hour break. 54 After a one-hour break, which was given to allow maximum, means maximum time and opportunity for club presidents to agree, i.e. clubs, or MPs, we did so on the initiative of the Watch Tower College, the club presidents accepted it, until now. [[PAUZA]] Is there anyone on behalf of that meeting or meeting to say a few words, on behalf of the club president's meeting. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4415	Dear gentlemen, honourable MPs, we have debated. One number of people had no patience to listen to arguments, the other held out and I want to say that there were offers to overcome the dispute within the meaning of that clause around the member, Chapter XX of Article 9. In the sense that several categories of persons have been excluded from the member, several categories have failed to speak to the other party except the Social Democratic Party, which has not agreed to an exception. We're in arguments, cross-referenced arguments. I think it's very important that the MPs know that. We said there were extremely many tens of thousands of primary and judicial disputes. Furthermore, this is to this extent a complex issue, that we have a number of BiH's unfortunate assets that have been kidnapped. We have dozens of villages, dozens and dozens of villages in the Municipality of Glamoch, which cannot reach their property or have been kidnapped for airports and they should go to vote at the airport. I just don't know if it's for the pilots or anyone else. This is to this extent an absurd claim, which is expressed with this member who wanted to be imposed as an amendment for reconciliation, and we still have categories of people who are tenants, so what are we going to do and the tenants are in other people's property. There's no distinction there either, and we wanted gentlemen, no matter how absurd this may seem to you, but we wanted to say what was excluded from this list, when the request was made, that these were the persons in the property being held by the administrative or judicial dispute. That they're people who use other people's property, and that's why they have a written contract. That they are faces, because such faces exist, and we wanted to exclude persons who could not return their property, because it was kidnapped or destroyed without being provided with temporary temporary accommodation. If they're not provided. If it was secured, there could be no compromise in that first one, just let it be known for the public that there could be no compromise in that direction either. I think this is worth the attention you need to know. I wouldn't criticise anyone's attitudes, but I just wanted to say what we talked about.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4416	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Is there anyone else in the name of the clubs?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4417	On behalf of the HDZ Club, we had this meeting, where we tried really in the truth to overcome those disagreements that were present, however, at the very beginning, as soon as we started talking one part, of course the representatives of the clubs did not have any patience or sufficient arguments for such a thing and apologized and left. We tried to convince each other of what the problem was, or what we should do in order to bring this electoral law into the Council of Europe in truth. I can on my own behalf, as president of the club, conclude that there was no good will. Had it not been for good faith, of those who say they were for the electoral law and for the Council of Europe, because if 55 had been, then they would have really been in words, they would have tried to convince each other that they were not the first or that they were. However, it is not only Article 29 but it is something that all the time the HDZ Representatives Club warns about what one of the holders of the sovereignty of the Croatian people is about is the mechanisms for protecting vital national interests, such as the homes of the people, or the BiH presidency. But we weren't naive, we knew it from the beginning that it was a fundamental game about it. And instead, we set ourselves up the way we thought we should. But the interesting thing is that here we are talking about the respect of the Constitution, and that the House of Peoples that is regulated by the Constitution is precisely trying to rule it out and put it into transitional and final provisions. You might think it's absurd. We'll respect the Constitution all the time, we'll follow the Constitution and all that, but what you've already prescribed in the Constitution, you want to take it off. Gentlemen, if you want to change that, then it is known and clear procedure for amending the Constitution. What's prescribed by the Constitution, I think it's pointless and an attempt to strike this part. For the HDZ Representatives Club, it is unacceptable this way of conduct since we are drawn to say and manipulated all the time that it is something else that we agree on and try to pass the Electoral Law. This is one enough indicator of what we want and what we want. That he really wants to end the House of the Peoples, because they would wipe him out if he was regulated by the Constitution. Who is bothered by the House of Peoples, and says that every nation should and must have an institution to protect vital and national interests. So the intentions are quite different and the intentions in our view are very dirty and something that does not create trust between both us and the peoples and the citizens within Bosnia and Herzegovina. The HDZ Club is for the adoption of this law, which was indeed proposed by the Council of Ministers. Respecting that institution, of course, it accepted the amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which became an integral part, and for which amendments were voted, as well as this on the Presidency and the House of Peoples, all the representatives of the political parties in this House. What happened overnight was that the concept and the strategy of the actions of these changed. The HDZ club at the moment takes responsibility for further fate and law, will vote for it, and for the further fate of development within Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the attempt to strike vitally, on institutions where vital and national interests are protected. And at this point, let those who try to walk take responsibility. I think they're out of the way and they don't need it, because they're dealing with the statements that are being made. However, the matter is quite different, and here is the report that we received from the College where a very convenient report was made, where it was not mentioned which area it was working on, but it was said to delete the article from 11.1. to 11.5. into transitional and final provisions, but did not stress that it was the House of Peoples. That it is the only institution for the Croatian people where it can protect its vital interests. If it goes into transitional and final provisions, but regulated by the Constitution, then it's a really clear message. I want to say that HDZ agents are taking responsibility for anything right now. We have made every effort, made a lot of compromises to try to stabilise and contribute to the stabilisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those who lead to destabilisation should take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4418	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. If no one answered, I would take the liberty of explaining this attitude. 56 Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if I may be free to say a few words at the end of today's day and session, and that it is not at the heart of the absence of political will to pass the electoral law, but a minimum of simple implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms that are incorporated into the Electoral Law that is before us, the bill of electoral law. We are aware of the fact that yesterday's 11 amendments have been rejected and that they have not received the necessary entity majority, and in this context, surely this controversy with constitutional provisions will deny many in this room from the aspect of the legality of the absence of voting on these amendments. Also, if I may say that SDP is the generator of many processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this context, it is certain that it stands in the way of protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. In particular, the application of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the realisation of Article 2. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And attitudes 2. 4th and 7th to prevent discrimination within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given the monoistic concept of law and constitutional justice system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also need to respect the concept and system of international law, which has the right to the championship over the internal acts of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've all forgotten this in this country in the past six years of the hard functioning of the Constitution that has two members who are contrary to each other. Article 2 and Article 5. Article 5 fully defines and determines the selection of members of the Bureau which is objectively contrary to Article 2. And that's not controversial. It also means by respecting that this is a multinational state, the Institute of Protection of Vital National Interest is a normal, mandatory institution that must function at both state level and entity level in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which means the absolute SDP supports the work of constitutional and legal committees and the simple protection of vital national interests. It's not just about the Croatian people, it's about both Bosniak and Serbian people. So that's the only way one state of multinational architecture can function. So there are absolutely no words that simply someone in this room here against the protection of vital national interests. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the system of its constitution, the election, depends, wanted me to acknowledge or not the solution that will take place as a result of the work of the constitutional-legal committees of entities. That depends. So that's a fact. Because this country is in transition and implementation of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ruling. It is absolutely so irrelevant whether it will be in the basic provisions or in the transitional provisions because it applies to temporary elections or some other events that may cause the application of the simple Electoral Law before November 2002. Which means we're ready and now we show our willingness to give up on this article 2. So it's no problem. If that's how much the HDZ cares about, sure. It can remain in the basic provisions of the House of Peoples. So, there's only one member left that I've singled out on this report. It's a report from the House of Representatives College. So there's only one thing that's controversial, to add half the sentence that says: - and the Commission for property demands of displaced persons, refugees. We don't have that much tolerance. It was a threshold below which I personally couldn't cross, why this report is like this. Article 2 of this report is, I don't think it's insurmountable and a ruby that can't be crossed if that's what the House of Peoples cares about, or HDZ doesn't have any problems. The SDP can be so tolerated. It also suggested that in transitional and final provisions everything that was not defined, simple elections were made per year in 1998. You remember Mr. Grabovac that you were full of words of praise to Mr. Bogić for such a proposal adopted by this house. Thank you. poslanik Grabovac, replica. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4419	Mr. Chairman, you can't interpret the Constitution whether it's in college or not. When, if you can listen to me. You can't interpret the Constitution. Secondly, it is quite clear when it comes to the election of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the election of the House of Peoples. We told it at the beginning that and how important it was to HDZ. Secondly, it can give an opinion on whether it is in collegiate with something the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court or whether it is the International Court of Human Rights. So, I think that's a comprehensively clear interpretation and advice to you and by OHR and the OSS, and therefore you know it well, but you don't need to present something in a way that I can say, a presentation of the truth at the core of a lie. There's something behind it all, because now it convinces me of all these moves that have been drawn in. Unless that's what you care about, the president of the SDP Club at this meeting asked only for that to happen. Then someone between you guys, we need to take care of the lines, then get it done. We also care about how important it is to the House of Peoples and a member of the Presidency. It's regulated by this constitution. Thank you. poslanik Grabovac, I won't replicate. Ambassador Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4420	I'm sorry to have to replicate to an esteemed colleague of Mr. Grabovac, whom I greatly appreciate, but I can't accept some of his views that are exclusive here. And he takes the right to teach us all democracy and to interpret the Constitution and that no one else has the right to interpret it. And to say here to remove all responsibility from the HDZ, we are all other non-operational, only the HDZ gentlemen are cooperative. The U.S.A. has shown a peak of co-operation all along. There are 100 objections to the Electoral Act. Principled two things, we said in the beginning and we stick to it consistently. We ask for a compromise to be made here and to accept the party's views, our views that simply defend the interests of every citizen and every nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If it cannot be accepted, then I do not know what is the co-operation of HDZ and Mr Mire Grabovac – Titan. And when it says that it protects the interests of the Croatian people, vital national interest should be protected here, but ultimately they are protected in the House of Peoples. There are representatives there who will protect interests, and besides, our proposal for a second amendment that we're talking about leaving P2 talking about exactly people's homes and protecting vital national interests both in the state and in entities. So, there's even Mr. Titan, if you're protecting it, he's not at all in college with what we're up for. So that basically means that it takes a little bit of goodwill to accept this and get through it, and if someone's confused and won't give in to any grams, and to the other one, then I think that's extreme hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4421	Thank you, Ambassador Brki. An MP...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4422	Mr. brkati, if you're already talking about principle and I'm talking about human rights, which you like to talk about, then we're looking into each other's eyes. Here's 58 of you right now. I'm looking into your eyes and I'm saying that on the committee that you've been sitting on for that amendment has been voted by a member of the SDA. And tell me, come out and tell me I'm lying if I'm lying.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4423	I'll go out, I'll go out and say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4424	I want to tell you something else. I want to tell you when you talk about co-operation so much, there's something I want to tell you. Gentlemen, you're talking about protecting human rights, and you want to sanction the election rights of people. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4425	Incorrect quotes. Replica, Ambassador Brk. I beg you, we are before the act of voting and this system of debate has not been planned at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4426	It is true, Mr. Banjac, that we voted on the Constitutional Commission the way we voted. But that doesn't mean that we can't agree later on and have a unique attitude on this matter. Mr. Banjac, that's right. You can't order someone to mess up their attitude for one thing, if one minute he voted for it. Please. I'm looking you in the eye. Don't turn your head. You looked me in the eye, too. Your second remark when I speak of human rights to take someone's right. I'm not taking anyone away. LetMirko make sure that every citizen and every member of the people in Bosnia has those rights. But let's not fight for the rights of a single promiscuity of people who are probably what you're interpreting, in those villages of Glamoch where a polygon is made. I'll take it. Let's get these people out of there. We can accept that. Be careful, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4427	Replica, I'm asking you to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4428	Please. You call me that one prominence of people in Bosnia who would eventually lose their rights, but you neglect hundreds of thousands of exiles who would thus be impaled if I could not return to my house. I'm saying, I know the exact information. The request to return to Banja Luka has 16,000 Banja Luka municipalities so far taken into consideration 1,600 and something, I don't know. Please. He's got a stenogram. I stand behind every word of my own. According to your proposal that was on the Constitutional Commission, these people, the 1,600, would be entitled to, the rest of them have no right. The Assembly of Banja Luka Municipality would never consider the others. I want them taken and returned, Mr. Banjac, and I won't take anyone's right, but I want everyone's rights back, and I will never raise my hand for what will verify genocide as a value in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4429	Replica. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4430	First of all, I'd like to say that I respect Ambassador Brk. And that what we're replicating don't get it wrong. I want to cross arguments with Mr. Brk, and I cross arguments with those I value. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr. brk, today I asked you to follow that lead you're talking about at the alignment I'm discussing, and I didn't come across it. I'm talking about a couple of tens of thousands of court disputes that were launched for property, which would have been damaged before the court. Convicted before the court, convicted before final administrative proceedings. I'm talking about those whose property can't be returned, to find a way to protect them, not to protect them from staying in the pit, but to find a solution for them. I didn't mean for them to stay in someone else's property, or when I think about it. I don't think anyone can get lucky. I was there to find a solution, and now I'm up for it. And I wouldn't want him to complain. I've replicated to you, Your Honor, only for that reason to say that there are different opinions and other arguments. And I wouldn't want us to be too personal, but I'd like to protect all the unfortunates who need protection. Today, there was no willingness to come to a solution. That's what I'm saying. And I'm ready to find a solution now, if that's the only dispute, Mr. Chairman. Maybe this isn't a waste of time. If it's the only dispute, let's go gentlemen who has the will to solve it and who will vote if it gets rid of it. To seek a dispute for that solution, for that problem. So let's see if there's a problem or if there's any more problems. There's no problem. I'm ready to keep looking. Please, gentlemen, we didn't come here to refuse the law as soon as possible. Let's see how we adopt him. It's easy to say no.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4431	It's a replica of coma. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4432	Mr. brk for the House of Peoples I am. Both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the Federation and Republika Srpska. You must know that once. Second, if the SDP gives up this amendment that we've been talking about. As far as the HDZ Representatives' Club is concerned, this is no problem for us, this amendment is not a problem. I don't know when it comes to MPs of Republika Srpska. Because basically he doesn't change anything. I don't know what you're up against, but it doesn't change anything. And if you're allowed this part, because he says, "And, and doesn't replace it." So you have a solution to this and that. But here's what you suggested about the HDZ Club of Representatives, if they're going to solve, here's what I'm going to ask for a half-hour break to try to agree, so let's get it over with. If it's really this. Here I am, if it's really just this problem I'm looking for a half-hour break to try and find a solution. Well, it means it's not just about that thing. If there's really something left on this just about this club of HDZ MPs asking us to take a break to agree, if something else is, then there's no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4433	Thank you. poslanik Ljubić, vice chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4434	Dear President, Your Honor, I will in some way refer the line to all who have discussed it. If that's the question of this famous 29th, if it's a question of which there's a possibility that we can talk even tonight for an hour, two, three. I know that even after that, if we agree on that, we won't all vote, but I'm curious that we have a degree of consensus that at least a few MPs won't be, at least that it won't be against the law. I wish they were either for or abstentioned. That we have the law. I don't think it's a waste of time for us to take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4435	For the first time, we're on our way partly to look at some arguments in a tolerated atmosphere. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4436	We used to work late hours before. I think the seriousness of today's debate would also give a strong message to the Council of Europe and to everyone, and it would still be a stronger message, if I find, I say, and to that minimum, so that a number of MPs have an argument that there is, that they can say that it is not against that law, and then we all get a chance to push all amendments through entities and through Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm telling you the best solution for the Presidency, you'll get to the point that the way I suggested, the indirect way of choosing, but that's a question that requires consent of the Constitution. So don't lose your temper. I didn't want to make a practical statement at the College, because I think club presidents should take over the part and say it works for as long as it takes tonight, so if it has to be tomorrow, because we don't want anyone to cheat here. I'm saying we find one text that's going to have the slightest vote against it. I think that would be a good message for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and for our eventual membership in the Council of Europe. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4437	Thank you for this constructive dialogue and proposal. Ambassador Malkić had his word. We will assess the break after the meeting of the president of the SDA Party Club, president of the Party for BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4438	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point to one, again it's a procedural mistake, but one case that makes eyes. I've got a voting matrix in front of me, about the amendments and about the laws. Amendments 20 and 9 respectively receive 25 votes for, 8 against, 7 abstentions. And that amendment cannot enter, and the law that they get 16 for, 12 against and abstention 11 should be passed here by a law that violates fundamental human rights. Let's agree on this member of the amendment. Let's talk about the rest. It's that amendment, but it's not correct again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4439	I would ask the president of SDA and Party for BiH's clubs if it makes sense to take a break. 61 Does the Party for BiH make sense? There isn't. SDA, yes. We've been supporting a break for half an hour. Thank you. It's an act of voting. Unfortunately, despite the goodwill of one amendment to clean up and agree most clubs, in terms of me, please. I'm sorry the break was asked for by an MP, Deputy Chairman Ljubić. I'm begging you. You'll get your word. I suggest that Deputy Chairman Ljubić deliver the results of this break he requested.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4441	Dear President, Your Honor, I felt that we were quite close to agreeing on this one of the issues, and so I suggested, I did not suggest a certain break, I suggested that we work continuously if we should both work tonight and in the morning to try to agree on it. At one point, I thought we had agreed, because I personally supported this attitude 1 in this report by the College of the House of Representatives. Later, it turned out that we cannot all agree on that part and the result is such that there is no consensus on this part of Article 20.9. I think it'd be good if the club presidents, too, if they need to tell them what it is. I think that this may have been a good basis for one to say a compromise proposal that would have left nothing in the end, which would have left quite enough room for both refugees and displaced and for the protection of their rights. But please, I say I will be here for the law and I am ready to vote for amendments that can raise a higher degree of compromise on the election law solution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4442	I would like to thank Deputy Chairman Ljubić. Ambassador Zaćiragić Emina.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4443	Please, nice. We've been breaking the Poslonik here for a long time. We voted once on amendments. The amendments didn't go through. We tried to bring it together. That didn't go away. There is still no point in seeking breaks and exhausting MPs in this way. I will otherwise be greatly resented by the way we work today's session. We're always trying to compromise. No political will. That was clear yesterday when the vote against the amendment was voted in that way. All the current attempts are just hairstyles and cosmetic displays to viewers that we're for something we're not. You know. We all said what we wanted by voting. Whoever refused the amendments refused. The procedure for this new approach has passed, I suggest we go to the vote. This pattern P2 or 29 was never the opposite of the Constitution, it could never have been agreed, nor the proposed versions are even close to what the Party for BiH is looking for. The BiH party will not give up the proposal and the amendments to the House of Peoples and other amendments. 62 I suggest that this be the end so that we don't physically exhaust ourselves, to preserve the dignity of this home that we know that we know the knowledge, that we know the outcome of a controversial problem as it is. And to vote on the Electoral Law. Whoever wants to vote, whoever won't, won't, and we can't spend all night exhausting the messengers. I think this is invisible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4444	I thank Ambassador Zaćiragić. Replica. Deputy Chairman Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4445	Dear gentlemen, I'm sorry to report so often, but I think today the House has been working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and has shown a high degree of seriousness. I don't think anyone can attack me because I'm looking for breaks and I'm going to propose them in the future, so we can just try to find a higher degree of consensus, the ones that will be for the law and the ones that will be against the law. In the first place, I believe that as little as possible should be against the law, because that leaves us with the possibility that we can build up that law, as well as build up the entity's constitutions. Please, the MP shouldn't be impatient. We have our work and paid and rewarded, and I think there are people who work in much more difficult conditions, and those we advocate through Article 29 of escaped and displaced, they've been waiting for years for a solution to return to their home and to exercise their rights, so don't take us for the evil we're acting, to say for some, Don Kihoski. For me, it's very reasonable and rational to say, I think it's a much better message to the Council of Europe that we're still trying, and when some think it's not possible. I know that some will not deviate from their political views. I appreciate that. I don't have to accept it like this, but I think it should be used every way, because I think those who voted for this Council of Ministers, I didn't have the honour of voting for the Council of Ministers. Those who voted for the Council of Ministers should be much more patient, as the basis of all this is the Council of Ministers' proposal. I can only assume which can be conjecture if one such proposal of the Council of Ministers does not pass. So I'm saying, I don't think you have the right to all of us who are calling us, if you're specifically thinking about us from the College, who are running the procedure that this is a lost time and we're distracting you here. Everything is aimed at solving the issues, as I see it and the club presidents are very willing and relaxed to try to take the last chance. It's never too late to say we didn't agree and say, "Let's do this technical act." And what about after that? Are we going to be called by someone tomorrow, and will someone tell us, "Give us yesterday, you were a little tired and you failed, now try to do it." I think that would be a much bigger defeat for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4446	I thank the Vice-President. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4447	Gentlemen, I hereby inform this House that the SDS MPs' club accepts that they are supplementing Article 29 as stated in the College Report and that we will see if the motionary remains with his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/it. We accept it as it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4448	poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4449	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the HDZ Club of Representatives as I have said before this one is willing to pass this electoral law and I will not speak we accept the full proposal that came from the College for point 1 of the amendment means Article 202.9 and I think the vote will show where we are. I won't do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4450	Thank you, Ambassador Grabovac. I have to explain. I admire intellectual outwitting about this member and really this, so many sophisticated thoughts and simply an idea of how to prevent radical change of simple text that was in the Electoral Law. I said there, add the text, what and which was typed in dark letters, it was done by the secretary in the context of the text of the entire amendment to stand or not. I think it went beyond every measure, this system. I'm asking you to vote. Let's vote. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4451	Dear MPs and the esteemed leadership of the Assembly, which is your way of not knowing what you said today. Because please, this is really more inadmissible. Once again, I ask that after the vote on the law, we declare our trust in the leadership of the assembly. I filed a written request.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4452	Because it's not on the agenda. We have a Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone else to answer for? poslanik Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4453	Gentlemen, you have received a hundred reports on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for an electoral law of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed by members of the College. They have two items here. The second paragraph requires that not be introduced into the law but into the transitional and final provisions of the text on the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can't do that until the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina changes. So, it's not the entity constitution, it's the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's where the election of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was regulated. 64 I remind you that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina states that Bosnia and Herzegovina is based on the rule of law, and the basic principle on which the rule of law is founded is constitutionality and legality. And we really can't discuss that. If we agree to leave out point 2. I am ready and withdrawing here it is not in agreement and you have my consent, if there is no point 2 relating to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Gentlemen, you have my consent to point one. If it is, as Mr. Avdić said, a mistake in printing or in expression, then this is all of course no longer a big deal, because this text is no longer on the table because the chairman gave up the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4454	Report's done. In the report, Dr Avdić noted two basic requirements and no agreement was reached. He is no longer a relevant document for this home. Please and forget it. Please. This is no longer a relevant document for this home. We didn't achieve consent. In that sense, we move on to an act of voting. I'm begging you. Who is it to be the electoral law in the framework and form that was under consideration. 11 amendments were rejected, received by the Council of Ministers. 18 amendments agreed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. What's to make it turn? Who's in? Next time we vote. Who's in? For the law. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Anybody got any abstentions? No one abstentioned. We're moving on to an entity vote. No, we don't have to do everything. Please, he can't vote in the voting procedure. I'm begging you. We'll get results. Yeah, right. There are 38 MPs in the O.R. We're going for an entity check. Please. Please. I'm begging you, you can't go to the voting process. You can after the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4455	Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of Parliament, I doubt the vote and call on Article 69(2).
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4456	You're asking for a vote after the call. Yes, it is. We can. There's an MP who has the right to ask for it. He has a right to ask. Here you go. Here's the secretary's going to call and let's read in article 69.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4457	Šarganović Senad - v; Bjelobrk Boro - v; 65 Bogićević Bogić - v.; Ferzanović Branislav - v.; Filipović Omer - Mediha; Avdić Sead – v.; Mašić Damir – v.; Kamberović Violeta – v.; Borić Adem – he is absent; Buturović Sead – v.; Mašović Amor – absent; Miloš Hilmo – v.; Stokić Dušan – Željko; Stanimirović drag – v.; Sašivarević Nedžad – v.; Lolić Malkić – Ibrahim; Ljubić Abdurahman – Željko Vukić Zdenko – za; Amidžić Marko – Grabovac; Mirjanić Jovanović Mirović Emina – v; Zaćiragić Emina – v; Begović Muhamed – v.; Lozančić Ivo – odsut; Osman Gligorić Bahrija Tihomir – Zažar – Zažanić Mustafa Mižanić – Tožović Miro Zažalnić Kovačević Zamić Ljubomir Tožović – Zamić – Zaž.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4458	Of the 38 MPs who were present today at the House of Representatives, it said: For – 16 against the vote – 22 And in this sense, the Electoral Law at the House of Representatives did not receive the necessary majority. I'm sorry. It's the same number of votes. 66 We move to an integral part of the agenda, MP Mariofil Ljubić also had a proposal for an election law. Here's Mariofile.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4459	I thank you, chairman and distinguished MPs, I do not suggest we end the procedure, I suggest we pass the Electoral Law. I will only read to you the report on the proposal of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, whose proposal I am on behalf of a group of MPs. I'll remind you of the Constitutional and Legal Commission report of 2.6. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 17.5.2001, at the 6th session, unanimously found that there was a valid constitutional basis for the adoption of the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was proposed by Mariofil Ljubić and supported by the urgent adoption of this law. At the 7th session held on 30.5.2000 (?) The Constitutional and Legal Commission held a general debate on the principles of the proposed law. At the 8th session held on 1.6.2000(?) The Constitutional-First Commission unanimously adopted and supported the principles on which the draft electoral law was based. She found that there were no amendments to the text table, which I believe means very acceptable to everyone. I was the only one who had some amendments to that text. The Constitutional and Legal Committee of Parliament's House of Representatives decided at its session that the proposed law could be passed and therefore included it in its agenda. It is clear to me after this current vote, to pass this law, regardless of what was around it, there was an almost absolute concession. Since there were no big objections, I doubt that even one law could pass in this atmosphere. I'm not pulling it, I'm just pulling out of this vote, and I'm leaving you a chance to maybe find a compromise solution tomorrow, maybe about this law. I think it would be inconclusive if we were voting on this text right now. So I'm pulling him off the plea. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-28-0.u4460	I thank the deputy chairman, MP Ljubić for withdrawing this law. Ad. 2. Current issues Under current issues, we have a request to review and reflect this House on the activities of the Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications in Bosnia and Herzegovina, believing that we have not prepared and prepared ourselves for the implementation of this agenda item The extended College has proposed that the Commission for Transport and Communications review the relations of the Council of Ministers of the Regulatory Agency, to get acquainted with the tender which has been called up and in this context to report to this House. By now, the Regulatory Agency has stopped the realisation of the tender, and it partly relaxes the situation. I think it's the college's conclusion that we can accept it. 67 Thank you very much for being at the 10th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The seat's finished at 8:15.
