ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4023	I am opening the 9th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, members of the BiH presidency, chaired by members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the European Union, representatives of the Council of Europe, representatives of the European Union's Observation Mission to BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy and representatives of other international organisations in our country. Representatives of public information funds were also invited. I warmly welcome all those present and thank you for participating in the work of this high house. I agree that 38 MPs attend the meeting of the House of Representatives, with justification, or justified the absence of Members of Parliament: Sead Buturović and Momir Tošić. Also, you gentlemen are MPs for today's session received a draft agenda, and this morning we have booked, too, an extended session of the College and I am pleased to inform you in particular that we have adopted the orientation plan of the House of Representatives for this year, following several months of agreement and practical achievement, according to harmonisation, the necessity of harmonisation of the orientation plan of the House of Representatives, that Council of Ministers' work plan and all other elements, affected by the orientation plan of the House of Representatives. As regards the draft agenda, the General Assembly agreed on certain interventions on the agenda: to exclude item 19 from the draft agenda. The proposal for a law on the outside-trade chamber, for the reason it is suggested that this law, before the adoption of this law, should try, some further alignments are made between the entity chambers in BiH. Appreciating these arguments, the Expanded College proposes that this point be left out of the agenda today. Also, to include the Framework Agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in BiH, linked to the deadlines and demands of the Council of Ministers and to include the selection of commission members as a last resort, that is to fill the seats, following a change in the personal composition of MPs. 2 Also, the enlarged College agreed that a single debate was being held on the proposals of the electoral law, the Council of Ministers' and MPs' proposal for a Council of Ministers and an MP, Mariofil Ljubić. Therefore, the final draft agenda for the 9th session of the House of Representatives would be as follows: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Proposal for an election law of BiH, first reading, proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers; 3. Proposal for an electoral law of BiH, first reading, MP Mariofil Ljubić's proposal for a law under paragraphs 2 and 3 are discussed in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. 4. Proposal for a Law on the flag of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law on the coat of arms of BiH; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law on the Court of Justice of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on the State Border Service of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act; 10. Proposal for a law on relative taxes and tariffs, administrative fees; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH; 12. Proposal for a Standardisation Act for BiH; 13. Proposal for a Law on Measurement of BiH; 14. Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Standards and Measurement and Intellectual Property of BiH; 15. Proposal for a law on units of measurement; 16. Proposal for a law on accreditation of BiH; 17. Proposal for a law establishing the BiH Accreditation Institute; 18. Proposal for a law on the property of the BiH Employment Office; Proposal for a Law from 4 to 18 you know well that it has declared the High Representative on a provisional basis. It will be razmatraće under Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. 19. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Ministries - First Reading; 20. Proposal for a law on free zones in BiH, first reading; 21. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH, first reading; 22. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Development Credit Agreement (A Technical Assistance Project for the Social Sector between BiH and the International Development Association); (b) Development Credit Agreement, Social Sector Adjustment Credit between BiH and the International Development Association; (c) Framework Agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in BiH; 23. The selection of members of the House's committees, the fill-in of the seats; 23. MPs' questions and answers. 3 You have heard a partially reconstructed draft agenda for today's 9th session of the Representative's House. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4024	Gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the chairmanship, honourable MPs, in front of the SDA's Club of MPs, at the Extended College, I asked that the agenda point be placed as the first point of confirming the election of delegations of both homes in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The second question, I asked that all laws, adopted on a provisional basis by the High Representative, be treated immediately at the very beginning of this session and then held a debate on the Electoral Law. I just want to briefly explain the SDA request that we have insisted on supplementing the agenda, as regards the election of members of the Council of Europe. It is, in effect, a failure to comply with an agreement founded on the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Parliament, as well as a lack of respect for the principles of functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to make it clear and loud that the SDA MPs' club in both homes as well as this home House of Representatives has been deceived by the SDP and the Alliance for Change. We have been deceived, of course, by the MPs, because we have believed, indeed, in respecting both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the principles of functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as a sign of our progress. All of this is a fragrant violation and a legitimate right to represent the largest opposition party, the party that has received the largest number of votes, that it is not easy in the Council of Europe. The MPs of the SDA note this home that they have worked patiently and correctly so far, with a lot of tolerance and respect. We have been returned, in a brutal way, by fraud, through violation of the Constitution, by the Rules of Procedure and through violation of the principles of functioning of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, I once again point out that volunteerism has acquired the right of citizenship in this home, as if totalitarianism is becoming the political practice of this home. We ask the MPs of this assembly to reconsider our legitimate request and correct this mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4025	I thank Ambassador Borić. Ambassador Miro Grabovac Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4026	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, enough that we have decided to put together points 2 and 3 of my proposal is that point two, meaning that it goes under a and b. The reason for that, I explained to the Expansive College, that, given the shortcomings that followed from the proposed law, because of the narrows of time, and also because of the shortcomings that have been accumulated within the Constitutional and First Commissions that I will talk about later, and in order to make it more favourable to discuss this very important law, I propose that point 2 stand under a) and b) continue to move the points as necessary backwards. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4027	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. The apostle Bible.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4028	First, I'd like to welcome everyone, my discussion regarding these 16 laws that the High Representative has brought on a temporary basis. We all know that the House of the Peoples of 11 was adopted and five were not adopted. In an extended college, our club asked for a temporary commission of both homes to be formed to overcome the current situation. However, the request was not received by the majority. We remain at this request or floor, the second requirement is that both colleges meet, means a college of both homes, and try to reach a consensus on these laws. So, I suggest that we say today about these 11 laws that have been passed at the House, and that these five can reach a consensus that they prepare for the next session. Thank you, Vepe.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4029	I would like to thank Ambassador Bilbija. It's 15 laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4030	In front of the Commission on Human Rights and Asylum and Refugees, I have a proposal to extend the agenda with one of our reports, with a desire to improve the work of both this Parliament and the Commission. We have indeed made an effort and made a visit. Two of our teams made one visit to the area of Podrinj, Mostar, the Bosnian City and the Drava. That report's over. We adopted him today on the Commission at 10 o'clock. It is now multiplying, and I believe, that it is very important for the Commission to come to the Council as soon as possible, and that those suggestions that we could draw from these visits as conclusions, this Parliament is considering and adopting. That, we hope, would be one step in all that BiH citizens expect when it comes to return and other problems, problems related to the return. That is why I propose that this point be placed on the agenda today and that Parliament declares it today. The materials are multiplying now, and you'll get them on the bench very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4031	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4032	Dear gentlemen, distinguished guests, gentlemen of the BiH presidency, I would like to clarify at the outset a simple, possible misunderstanding. It is said that 16 laws are included in the agenda and they do not make up any package to be voted on, but should be individually declared on each law. I'm saying that the package doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure don't know the package of laws, so that we can make a statement, and I'm also informing you that it's being declared as any other law, where I have observations, I will vote against, because there was no possibility of amendments, and where I have no objections, I will vote on the law as a law, and not on any of it, as it was said, earlier here nostrification. It's sad to have such expressions mentioned, and I want to make it quite clear. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4033	I would like to thank Ambassador Banjac. Is anyone picking up a word? There are no more applications to vote on the agenda. If I can have a bit of an impact on the relaxation in terms of the remarks of Members of the Council of Borić, it remains a commitment, suggestions from the College of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to review its decision to delegate the members of the delegations to the Council of Europe and remain political talks, simply two or three political parties, in terms of firstment, objectively and avoidance of agreements reached at the College of the House of Representatives, I hereby confirm that from this address. The OHR laws work and we felt that the laws, the election laws should have priority in terms of consideration at the House of Representatives, and that was only one of the basic objectives for which it was put under points 2 and 3. is now point 2. Procedurally, it means with a. and b. equal to the first two laws that are in the procedure. It's a straight line, and the Constitutional-First Commission has proposed it. I suggest that we not reconstruct and simply have this degree of tolerance, that we discuss in the context of the first reading on election laws and then move on to OHR laws, which, which are not, on condition, no discussion, are considered under Article 105, and I think... Mr Bilbija's proposal remains for four laws that have not been passed and at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to try to agree and avoid blocking and returning these laws from parliamentary procedure. So, Mr. Brk's proposal remains to complement the agenda with the Commission's Human Rights Report on their visit and insight into the level, dynamics, quality of sustainable return on BiH premises. We need to make a statement about these proposals. First of all, let's put in a proposal for Mr. Bilbija, the club to take four laws that—is five. Law on the Court of Justice, etc. We have here the Proposal for a Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of BiH and the Code on Administrative Taxes and Tariffs of Administrative Taxis. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH and the Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Accreditation of BiH. To remove these five laws today from the agenda and meet two colleges to overcome the blockade that took place at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Here you are, Ambassador Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4034	Mr. Chairman, I don't mind if the Rules of Procedure allow this, but to me, I can't find an article of the Rules of Procedure, which allows us to vote at all on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4035	I wasn't precise enough. Mr. Bilbi on behalf of the Psolnik Club has proposed to remove these five laws from the agenda, and Otto then suggestions etc. We don't vote on suggestion. We're only voting on a proposal to remove five of these laws from the agenda. 6 Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4036	Of course, we can get into a situation where we have different opinions in the two homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and there may be a situation which Mr Bilbija is projected, but only after this assembly's decision. Therefore, it seems perfectly normal for me to declare today the 16 laws offered, and in any way, to disagree with the proper decision of the House of Peoples, then we enter the Rules of Procedure into that procedure of acquittal of two homes. So, I think, by discussing the level of the agenda, and by designing things that this home is going to take its stand or not, I think we're prejudged, in other words, I'd like to ask my colleague Bilbija, it seems to me a more valuable second part of the conclusion that you've suggested, which is that the statement of these 16 laws, and the already open problems in the House of Nature form a working body, whether at the level of the College, or of the Parliament's composition, which is going to balance the facts, and that we're entering the regular procedure to make this House known, so we'll see the result.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4037	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Does the MPs' club that he suggested have any further arguments? What Parliamentarian Bjelobrk was talking about is objectively hiding one business obligation, which means that if they do not agree with these five laws by the House of Representatives, that they are simply returning to the beginning and that they are suddenly coming out of the pro-lomentary procedure and that is the problem. Article 105 is quite clear in terms of considering and adopting these laws, so it cannot be prejudged that the laws will be adopted on the basis of this to draw conclusions. This is an important question. Nothing, then we're left with five laws, which means we're voting on proposals. First on the draft agenda agreed on by the extended College. We vote on each change individually, there are no dilemmas, as proposed. I would ask MP Borić if he remains on his proposals, following these explanations? There's no dilemma. Then I ask you yes, Ambassador Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4038	Members of the Bureau, chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow Members and guests. I came out to give only a small addition to the reasons for the last item proposed by the president of the SDA's Club of MPs about the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It is not just a delegation to the Council of Europe, but to all delegations in terms of the obligation that has now appeared, to fill the delegations with confirmation of both homes. We, as a club, are looking for it, because, in the previous sessions, we have initially elected members of a delegation from our homes and in such a procedure, one happened, I would say, an extremely unserious fraud, not only to our club but also to this House of Representatives. We demand that a special agenda point be included with consideration of the 7 compositions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in their full composition and we demand that this full composition be confirmed by both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4039	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. Ambassador Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4040	Dear members of the Presidency, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable fellow Members of Parliament, I have something else to supplement. What Mr. President of my club and Mr. Neimarlija said. There is another fact that no one has presented here, today our MP, Mr Vilić, resigned as a sign of protest to join the Interparliamentary Union delegation. So, we, indeed as a party all the time, tried to be very cooperative and these 100 days that the Alliance had, we were really extremely cooperative, constructive, and in Parliament we didn't start any distractions and instead of the results shown by the Alliance, showed by fraud. Therefore, I ask that in light of these resignations of Mr. Vilić, which no one has mentioned before, this house takes the right and the right attitude and that the complete home does not deceive itself. It's not just cheating on one political party, it's cheating on this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4041	I have to intervene. Too strong words are not good for the atmosphere and functioning of this House of Representatives, and this term is absolutely unacceptable from the aspect of the agreements that have been made. Article 145 is very clear and precise. A member, attitude 2 says. The House will appoint its members in parliamentary delegations and in this context we have done our part of the work. So it has not been overlooked by the Rules of Procedure or has the possibility to verify the overall composition of all delegations, which have also been elected by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We have done our part of the work according to Article 1 and Article 2 means Article 1 and Article 145, and there is no need for a vote in this context. There's no business opportunity for us to get to the bottom of this. We've done our part of the job. It remains at the House of Peoples and political talks, what I pointed out and said, if an ar... and simply restarts the process of reviewing the decision of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and I ask you, I mean a termology that is not acceptable from the aspect of what was in the previous talks. Thank you. We can vote that the electoral law, i.e. the OHR laws, have priority and be under point two, conditionally said package, and that is not the package, are individual laws, and that only then is the election law being under point 19.itd. Replica, Ambassador Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4042	We're asking this house to make a statement about our proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4043	We cannot declare something that is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and that has been properly processed. Home has no right to change the rules of the Rules of Procedure. In 8 of that context, one part of the job is done. I ask you, we can only intervene with the People's House to reconsider our decision and in this context simply try to solve this problem and remain from the aspect of goodwill politically to try to harmonise it, the request of the SDA Club which is legitimate and legal, there is no dilemma. I'm asking for a degree of tolerance to simply overcome this situation. Do you remain in that, simply the OHR laws have priority over the electoral laws and that is the case? For the purpose of this point, points 2 to 17, it is 15 of the laws of the OHR and only under paragraph 18 and 19 respectively, that is to say to consider the laws, the electoral laws which were under 2 and 3. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? I think we need an entity vote and a statement. 24 for the 38 MPs present. The vote was 4 – abstention 10. So you need an entity vote. Who is from the RS area to adopt this proposal, from the RS area. Who's in? Thank you. Who is from the Federation to adopt this proposal? Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive an entity majority, so it was not adopted by the House of Representatives. Koelga Titan has proposed to point 2. On the College of A. is the Council of Ministers' Proposal, b) Proposal for a Member of Parliament, Mariofil Ljubić. Who's up for that proposal? Who's against it? No one's against it. Who's restrained? – 5 abstentions Of 38 voted 31 – against none – abstention 5. We can conclude that no entity statement is required and that this proposal by the Parliament of the Grabivac has been adopted. Thank you. We have a proposal from Parliamentarian Brk, president of our Human Rights Commission, to adopt a report on the Commission's visit to see the real state of return and dynamics, etc. Who is it to consider this account today at today’s session. Who's in. We can get the report through the session, it's done. Thank you. 35 for and we have 38 MPs. Which means that the proposal has passed and that, under point 24. It is the Commission's report. Under point 25. The parliamentary questions and answers, or one point we reduced, because we said a and b of these electoral laws, so point 3 becomes point 2. sub b. We have another proposal by the MEPs of Bilbija, to remove these five laws from the agenda of today's session of the House of Representatives, five laws declared by the OHR on a provisional basis. Who's in? Do you mind? Who's being held back? 9 Unfortunately, of the 38 present voted 10 – against 22 – abstention 5. So this proposal has not been adopted and remains as an integral part of the agenda. If you allow me to do it again with what was adopted, we have exhausted all the proposals and adjustments of the agenda, once again trying to present the agenda as a whole. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Representatives; 2.a) Proposal for an electoral law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH b) Proposal for an election law, first reading by MP Mariofil Ljubić; Proposals under point 2. A. and b. shall be considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly; 3. Proposal for a Law on the flag of BiH; 4. Proposal for a Law on the coat of arms of BiH; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on travel documents; 6. Proposal for a Law on the Court of Justice of BiH; 7. Proposal for a law on the BiH State Border Service; I wish to congratulate them today on the BiH State Border Service Day. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act; 9. Proposal for a Law on Administrative Taxes and Tariffs on Administrative Taxes; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Standardisation Act for BiH; 12. Proposal for a measure law; 13. Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Standards and Measurement and Intellectual Property of BiH; 14. Proposal for a Law on Units of Measurement of BiH; 15. Proposal for a law on accreditation of BiH; 16. Proposal for a Law establishing an Institute for Accreditation of BiH; 17. Proposal for a law on the property of the BiH Employment Office, the Bill's proposal was previously declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative 18. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers and BiH ministries, first reading; 19. Proposal for a law on free zones in BiH, first reading; 20. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH, first reading 21. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Development Credit Agreement, Technical Assistance Project for the Social Sector between BiH and the International Development Association, (b) Development Credit Agreement – Social Sector Adjustment Credit between BiH and the International Development Association, (c) Framework Agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in BiH; 22. The selection of members of the House's committees, filling the seats; 23. Human Rights Commission's report; 24. Legislative questions and answers 10 In this context, here we have refined, circled the agenda and declared ourselves on the additions and proposals of the agenda. We can move on to the realization of the agenda. Today under 1. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Representatives Do you have any objections, suggestions, corrections given on the record? You don't. Is anyone there? A colleague, Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4044	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what the case is with others, but I haven't received the minutes and I can't vote on anything I haven't even seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4045	There may be a technical or, secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4046	There's no way, everybody's got it. We can check the address.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4047	Check the address and see if Đedović is an MP, whether he is given the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you for this intervention. Is there anyone else on the record? There isn't. Who's in favour of adopting a prisoner? Do you mind? Someone restrained? With one vote abstention – 37 for, we adopted the minutes of the 8th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Opening point two. poslanik Šašivarević! We are opening a discussion of point 2.a) of the proposal for an election law of BiH, first reading, proposing the Council of Ministers of BiH, and (b) the proposal for an electoral law of BiH, first reading, MP Mariofil Ljubić čast, to open the discussion and debate of MP Šašivarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4048	Gentlemen, members of the Presidency, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the guests, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of the House of Representatives. I would ask this House of Representatives to make a decision once, with one conclusion, that, amendments which are not submitted to election laws, not to go into the process of what was happening now, Article 93, Article 94, this or that, I would ask that one conclusion be made, that they be accepted, because this is the first reading, that all amendments are accepted in the course of today's second reading. This is my request I support with 11 that I have the consent of three club presidents and I would also ask Mr. Banjac as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to plead on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4049	I thank you, forgive me, the word, however, as usual and according to established practice and by the obligation of this House is given to the rapporteur on this matter, that is the President of the Constitutional-First Commission MP Banjac here.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4050	Dear gentlemen, I have no intention of saying what you should have read, because you have received a report from the Commission, but I intend to say a few words about the Commission's work on, so far, the Commission's work on this election law. The Commission has provided you with a report showing the principles on which the law is proposed. See which amendments have been adopted and, of course, it is up to you to submit new amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or, if you wish to defend those previously submitted. I think that what Mr. Šašivarević is proposing, there is one possibility that I do not know the member by heart now, but that during the session, of course it depends on each MP and his skill to take advantage of the possibility that he is in the member, there when it comes to plenary phase 94 of Article 94(3). I still remember well, because I haven't forgotten what the attitude is. So you have a chance. What I want to convey as a message from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that none of us on the Constitutional and Legal Committee are satisfied with what we have done, but it is certain that this is a compromise and that it has been done with great respect for the minimum requirements of all parliamentary clubs and their representatives. I hope you'll have an understanding when it comes to this compromise that was imminent in this case. You know that politics isn't about the best solutions, it's about possible, and we're not about to think that what we're proposing is the best, but it's certainly possible solution. It remains here for you to intervene and contribute to your discussions an even better text, of course, if what you propose gets most of it in this home. But what I'd still like to say is that we don't just have to finish our first reading work today, we can go into the second reading quite easily, because the Rules of Procedure didn't say that there couldn't be one session, but just one reading. So there may be a second reading, rather than voting and passing at the same time, if that's the agreement. If we don't make a deal, then it'll be finished today with the first reading. If there were controversial moments, that MPs were not physically able to submit amendments within 48 hours, 48 hours before this session, and they have a desire to do so, I think they should be allowed, first of all, to bear in mind only one excuse, it is a shortened procedure and the second, and we as the Commission were in a great deal of time, so we decided to work deep into the night to finish the job and I think we should respect it, that we should not slave some formal matter at this moment. So, basically I wouldn't agree if it were something, but this 12 is formal. Let's let people help us get to the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4051	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Banjac and the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, with one conclusion that the Commission has made real efforts and efforts to reach a consensus on these fifteen amendments and to address the problem to the greatest extent and in this context I think that this suggestion and goodwill of the Constitutional and Legal Commission also allows for the goodwill of the House of Representatives that even during the day at the request of Šašivarević the amendments adopted by the Constitutional and First Commission or the new amendments that are argued by Article 94. Please, I'm opening a discussion. Who answers the word. We're discussing the context of the first reading. If I have to read this attitude again. Who's answering for a word? Ambassador Mariofil Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4052	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I am reporting for discussion both as a representative and as one of the proposings in order to reach a quality solution of the Electoral Law, simply to resolve the election process in BiH and to finally have and wait for the elections to take place under the law adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I will come out of the need for BiH to finally get its electoral law on the basis of which we will conduct new elections and the code with certainly will and will and hope that, through this electoral law, we will try to stabilise the political opportunities in BiH. For this reason, with a group of MPs and I have proposed an election law, and look at this election law as purely as our desire and will and our message to hear our attitudes as well. The attitudes of some of us who didn't want to hear it in the 10th month of last year, and in the 11th and next things went from mistake to mistake and insisted on something that wasn't, at least, constitutionally, not to say that that's how righteous and moral and what's left. Therefore, the desire was to go over this unconstitutional situation, not to have the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH with 14 MPs from one national club and if it should be 30, therefore, for this reason in the Election Law, we propose that all chapters be resolved, that there be no gaps left. No need, we have a constitutional solution, we have a BiH Constitution, we have an entity constitution. Until these entities are stopped and the BiH Constitution is changed, we can base the electoral law on these solutions and the next, and these solutions are proposed. In particular, in the election of members of the Bureau, we went here to propose two alternatives. I know you'll say one isn't constitutional. Okay, one, the first one is not in accordance with the Constitution, but I believe that for a state like BiH, it would mean a multinational, complex state, a country of three constituent peoples and citizens living in it, it would be more appropriate to make an indirect choice of members of the Presidency, meaning in Parliament. That's a lot of countries. Such a system knew BiH before the 1990s, and I think it worked. This simply affirms the principles of national equality and sovereignty of all three constituent peoples in a consistent manner and establishes constitutional provisions on the composition of the BiH presidency. Once upon a time, the clubs of the people in the House of Peoples, if they were to choose one person and on the basis of that 13 rules out a list of candidates who would vote in the BiH House of Representatives, who would vote. After that, there would be a vote on the House of Peoples. I think it is, and I think the choice's proposed way would be in agreement with the fundamental principles of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Given that the proposed solution would make one electoral unit for BiH presidency members BiH rather than as entities so far. I believe that, in the coming time, it is also necessary to strive for members of the Bureau to introduce a different model, meaning an indirect way of choosing through Parliament, thereby, all representatives of the people, can actively influence the selection of all three members of the Presidency and thus do not restrict the rights from which part of the territory the elected member of the Presidency must be. I say, I am realistic, it is not currently incorporated into the Constitution and for this reason we have extended the amendments that will solve this issue and I hope that it will be one subject of debate, one of the next Parliament meetings. After that, I suggest that members of the Bureau be determined the way of choice as it was in '96. and '98. It's a majority system. So one electoral unit is the Federation, another election unit is the RS, one man in the Federation has first to give his vote to one of the candidates, the one who gets more, I think it's appropriate. I think for a country like BiH, given its complexity, which is in the definition of Dejton, and given three people, and in the end, I never want to share people so much that I make any national lists, one or one, but you have to respect the fact that the different electoral body is three constituent peoples. I think this is one minimum that we can all accept, that it means that the majority system is simply to vote in accordance with the Constitution and the one that gets, so such a solution was already in the elections and in the rules, used in '96. and '98. A year. '98. Is that in this official messenger, you have rules and regulations number 15. As for the following, there were also speeches on the Constitutional Commission on Multi-member Election Units and Compensation mandates. I can say, I am not at all against multi-member electoral units and compensatory mandates, and if I think it would be much easier and much more uniformly whether it was one electoral unit, here is specifically for the Parliamentary House of BiH, that one electoral unit of the Federation and here is another electoral unit of the RS. Because it would simply drop the need for these compensatory mandates, which simply give the possibility of a variety of calculations. Accordingly, there was one proposal. That you might consider introducing a single electoral threshold, maybe 2%. My thoughts ranged between 1% and 3%, but I think 2 would be appropriate. I think that he, he would help come to a gathering and a political scene, there might be fewer parties and maybe there would be fewer political options and if there were many different options in many different parties. So there are actually the same options in different parties. So, I think it's unserious for someone with 0.5 or 0.3 to enter an institution, like. The Federation's parliament, but I say, I am not at all an apriorier against either multi-member electoral units or compensatory mandates, as some international representatives have said, and this is democracy. Yes, it is. So I'm not against open lists either. Let voters and voters choose, and if an open list doesn't mean anything, it only means that it might be a little more skillful and happy for us to do the lodging, it gives him the opportunity to lobby for himself and he doesn't have to lobby for those on which list he's on, but I'm saying, it's not my key. 14 So, as far as the electoral threshold is concerned, I suggest that it is also thought that it may simply try to introduce one electoral threshold. As for the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I think it is appropriate to try and install that part into a permanent electoral law, because I do not think that the category of peoples' homes in both BiH and the Federation of BiH should be controversial in my opinion. I stand at the point that the nations should protect themselves by the institution of the home of the people. I see no other more effective or stronger mechanism than the home of the people. For this reason, I propose that a chapter be regulated for the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so it can be a model that has been used so far. As for the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, you know that the Interim Rules and Regulations in that segment have caused the most problems and have led to the instability of political opportunities in BiH, that they tried to take away the consistency and sovereignty and the right to BiH. I don't think the way things went with those Interim rules and regulations should ever go again. I don't think we should question the representatives of any people, leave them to a national institution such as the home of the people, each nation chooses its own representatives. We have quite enough other homes and other institutions, where a citizen, based on his general electoral right, can express a clear position and give his voice to representatives who will represent them in the House of Representatives. I think the home of the people should be so built that the representatives of the people choose their representatives. We had such a solution in '96, so it worked. In '96, you know what the year was, the first year of the war, a very difficult and very complex time. I can tell you, I was then chairman of the House of the Federation Parliament, only twice a matter of vital interest. So, the very home of the people suggests that, when making the law and preparing, it should be done, it should lead to consensus. Thus, such a solution was used in '96. and '98. and I see no reason not to use such a solution in the next period. What's happened so far, I think it can only deepen political opportunities, it can't help for sure, because you don't need to be afraid, they shouldn't be afraid of the domination of a party in a nation. One party can get a lot of votes until the people see other odds, see no other political forces that can truly represent its interests. Therefore, I propose that this election law be installed and a chapter on the election of the House of Peoples to the Federation of BiH Parliament, in accordance with the solutions, means that representatives are elected from the cantonal parliaments, to follow in a consistent manner the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, which clearly states what it means. I also refer everything to the '96 elections. and '98 where it was quite good and quite precisely regulated and where I say there were no problems. There were no objections, because we had a complete home for the people, where there wasn't one club to be 14 representatives. As for the president and vice president of the Federation, I also propose the constitutional principle of the Federation of BiH constitution. If you look at, or the basic text of the law or amendment proposed by the club, it's just the prescribed text from the Federation of BiH Constitution. I think that's appropriate. We also suggested that other chapters be incorporated into the electoral law, as well as the election of presidents and vice-presidents of the RS and RS, only to resolve it fully. This law, I say and this proposal, see as a wish and a need to simply have one law around which 15 we will have, I hope, an absolute consensus, because it doesn't mean anything if we have a high degree of consensus in this House, and if that consensus does not include these five HDZ deputies. You don't just look at us as HDZ representatives, look at us and as representatives of a particular electoral base, a certain electoral unit, and in the end, look at us as representatives who represent a majority of one of the constituent people who clearly said, is not satisfied with their constitutional position, is not satisfied with these solutions, which so far have been, which have caused destabilisation and here as our contribution we consider and install such solutions, which will, in turn, guarantee and a minimum of equality in the institutions, both the Federation of BiH and the RS and BiH. I am certainly a realist and I know that these days we are discussing the alignment of the entity's constitution with the Constitutional Decision on the consistency of all three peoples throughout the territory. I think it's important, that it's too important, but it sets up one dilemma, whether it's necessary to wait for all that, and then build into the law. We have two ways, which means that we put all these solutions into law, which are now constitutional, which are, which can be returned to the basis of the Constitution and that after the decision, following the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, on constitutionality, will certainly show the need to amend and electoral law, but not just the electoral law. I can honestly tell you that I don't prefer just some cosmetic change and intervention, that we just make up a little bit to throw an m... let's say that's good. I think that the Constitutional Court's decision is looking a little deeper and requires a slightly more radical change in BiH's structure, including instruments and institutions through which this equality and equality will be protected throughout BiH's territory. In my opinion, as citizens of BiH and the citizen of the Federation, I want to protect my institutional equality and equality through the home of the people, through the homes of the people, because it is the minimum instrument that gives me the opportunity to protect my rights. For this reason, the issue will also be raised in the transitional and final provisions, it will need to regulate the issue that this law should also be brought into line with the Constitutional Court's decision on constitutionality. I say that job goes quite slowly. You know that almost a year has passed since the decision on constitutionality and when the constitutional committees that are doing so, when they're done, you know that it's just going to the entity parliaments and there's a certain procedure. I hope that this procedure will not be so, that it will also exclude the public from the talks on these amendments. I hope that this will lead to a very broad debate, because I think that no constitutional committee, nor any number of elected representatives, representatives in any home, can take on such a serious issue without a wider public debate. For this reason, I suggest we seriously consider these two solutions. Do not even consider this proposal that I have proposed on behalf of a group of MPs as a proposal, a counter-proposal of the Council of Ministers, as a proposal against anyone, to view this as our contribution, in order to discuss the electoral law and to achieve this consensus, to finally have a passed law, to try to resolve these issues, but also simply to adopt the Electoral Law to remove that obstacle, if that is our only obstacle to BiH's membership in the Council of Europe. I think, yes, so, with our serious debates on this issue and, if I should and should, I am willing to talk with the power of arguments, not by other power and force, to consider which solutions they are, and you will see that what is proposed, in that law, which I have proposed in the name of a group of MPs, is not much, is not directed against anyone, is not directed against the multi-member electoral units, nor against the open lists. It is directed against the preferential system, because this system does not give me enough 16 opportunities to prevent manipulations that are possible, it is aimed at addressing the issue of the election of the people's home, members of the Presidency, in one consistent, constitutional way, simply so that they can create a political struggle within this parliament, simply so that there is no need for someone to feel that they have been expelled from this parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4053	I thank the chairman, Ambassador Ljubić. Before I give my word to the next debater, I would like to introduce you to the Bureau that has delivered a message to us in writing, saying among other things that the adoption of the Electoral Law is of great importance to BiH, and in particular its adoption is one of the most important conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. Just after the adoption of this law, we expect BiH to finally become a member of the Council of Europe. We expect the delegates of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly to approach, responsibly and consciously, this important business, which, with larger and less interruptions, lasts more than three years. The adoption of the electoral law paves the way for further democratisation of relations in BiH. The possibility is created to solve many accumulated problems, through democratic dialogue and in general lead to progress and progress in BiH. By adopting the law, BiH is proving itself able to settle relations and many issues and that, with the help of the international community, BiH can pave the way for a brighter future. With respect, on behalf of the presidency, he signed the chairmanship of the BiH presidency, Mr Živko Radišić. The next debater is missing, the next debater is Bogić Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4054	Dear MPs and guests, it is known that the electoral system is one of the most important institutions in each country, and it is much more than the electoral rules and the election of parliaments and governments themselves. The electoral system largely determines the future of political democracy in the country. However, we are aware that the current constitutional restrictions do not allow us to radical changes to the electoral law, as we would like, but what is possible is to ensure national and civil equality, to prevent the domination of the ethnic majority, of any people, from supporting reconciliation, by obliging political actors to seek support not only from their people, from their ethnic groups to ensure political representation of exiled, displaced, refugees, who return to their homes, and to enable the functioning of stable and efficient legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Therefore, the SDP, starting with the responsibilities we have together, proposes that we do the maximum work and understanding and good will to achieve a minimum of consensus, so that this law is adopted by 22 June this year and that we meet the condition for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. It would be a 17 important message from this Parliament to the Council of Europe if we had done what is up to us, in order to become an equal member of the European family of countries and peoples. Secondly, to achieve as much consensus as possible in Parliament as possible between all political parties, as this would be a guarantee of the sustainability and stability of the electoral system in BiH. Third, not to accept any solution, which legalises discrimination against citizens or peoples in any part of BiH. Fourthly, to ensure the full equality of the people in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, and that decision is binding and its implementation is under way, it is late but will be implemented. Fifthly, until the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, the provisions governing the election of the president and vice-president of the RS, the President and Vice-President of the Federation, the election of the House of the Federation, the election of the House of Peoples of BiH, the election of members of the BiH presidency, which is, indeed, regulated by the Constitution of BiH, that all these provisions and everything else, where we do not have, some degree of consent in Parliament, be transferred to final and transitional provisions and, until the final solution is reached, apply the provisions of the Interim Election Commission Regulations and regulations of 1998. The Social Democratic Party had amendments. The Constitutional Commission has made a great effort to accept as many amendments as possible through a tolerated debate and understanding. But it is certain that not everyone has been accepted and therefore the SDP has remained with its amendments, including the amendment, that people living in someone else's property on whom a request for their return has been made may register and vote exclusively in the 1991 place of life. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4055	I thank Ambassador Bogićević. The next one came from Đedović. We have already started to discuss part of the debate on the individual members of the draft electoral law in question, and in this context, we will be faced with this and forced to define ourselves, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with Article 95, to define ourselves also by voting on the phase of reviewing the members of the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4056	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage of the business opportunity and the opportunity given by Mr. Banjac as chairman of the Constitutional Commission and propose a few amendments that I will later propose in writing. What's the matter with me? First, the need for a genuine step out of the sea in which BiH is located and which loses every day in the tensions that someone will not cheat. Here are the constant words of equality, multiethnicity, representation of everyone and everywhere, etc., and in all the proposed solutions, we are not equal again, in order to contribute honestly to this and to wish well, indeed, to every man, resident of BiH, I believe that we need to be able to power up and make a decisive step, in experiencing the possibility that every citizen feels free, equal and secure, no matter where he lives, no matter how he thinks or which party he belonged to. To achieve this, I think it would help us next, and the Constitutional Court's decisions on the equality of all three peoples in the entire BiH area are on track. First, Article 8.11. I am investing in an amendment in which I propose that members of the BiH presidency be elected from a single list, in which each party proposes a member of the Presidency of the three nations, of course, or coalitions and is elected throughout the BiH area. In this way, we are essentially invigorating multiethnicity, cohesion and we sincerely commit that everyone can be equal in this country and a member of the Presidency wherever he lives and whatever his name is. Secondly, Article 11th point 1 explains that delegates from the Federation of BiH to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are electing delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Federation of BiH from the Federation of BiH. I would like to add from the order of Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian. If they are equal in the Federation of BiH Srbin and should be, they will be elected. The same analogy is related to the selection of members from RS. Therefore, not only Srbin, but Bošnjak and Hrvat as well as Srbin. I'm begging without throwing. Who has anything to come out and say? That way, we'd be making assumptions that everyone really is equal. Also here, a section on the election of Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Federaicje and President and Vice-Presidents of the Republic of Slovenia has been skillfully avoided, of course by giving arguments that are not acceptable to me. Also, I propose that the president and vice president of the Federation, besides members of the people of Croatia and Bosniak people, be appointed and a member of the people of the Serb people. They didn't deliver it here, it's gone, but I think we understand what we're talking about. An identical approach that we have in RS. It means that a member of the Bosniak and Croatian people can also be vice president and president of the RS, as a member of the Serb people may be the president of the Federation of BiH. Then we're honest, then we're well-intentioned and then we want good to this country and to every citizen of it. I hope you understand and encourage me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4057	I thank MP Đedović, with us still not considering today's amendment, we have not gone any further to the second instance, or step, which is to discuss the members of the electoral law itself. I ask you, since more debaters have already gone deeply with their remarks and observations on members present in the electoral law, to make it clear that we can also discuss the members of the Electoral Law, not just the strategy and politics or the principles of this electoral law. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4058	I apologize, I would like it to be a truly successful session to be more orderly and report to the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, chairing the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because I have first of all the Rules of Procedure. So we can't get an impression here now, if we have to discuss both principles and principles and amendments now, that's impossible. Business needs to split up. That is why I propose, if there are no debaters who would discuss the principles, the principles of law-making, that we make a statement and then move on to members, or amendments afterwards. It means we split up those two things. It's an impression, Mr. Chairman, I mean, I apologize, but there's been an impression that we'll continue both afterwards after the vote. He can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4059	Unfortunately, MPs can very hard... the principles of the election law policy, unanimity members...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4060	You know what I'm saying. If the law doesn't get your majority after the first reading, it's rejected, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4061	That's right. Replica Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4062	Madam Chairman, and Mr. President, when I was going out for the pay phone, you said we started to discuss the amendments as well. I've made a very good decision, yes, it is, we can take a stenogram and I used it first.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4063	It was in the sense of a warning not to go to amendments. We have three replicas. Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4064	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to replicate but not with a goal of contributing to some of the beginnings in order to make this work impossible today, but rather to direct today's work. I think that we are all obliged, and it is a special responsibility for the President of the Parliamentary Assembly to lead and respect the BiH Constitution and to warn anyone who comes out of the framework of that constitution. The proposal, my predecessor's proposal, has nothing to do with the BiH Constitution, really. If we discuss it this way, then we certainly won't come up with a quality solution and the adoption of the electoral law. I, what Mr. Bogić Bogićević said in the opening part, absolutely everything I support from end to end, absolutely everything I support, are really principles etc. But I'd like us to act like one. Because in the end, Mr. Bogićević, I must tell you. You say you gave up on that member you proposed. You simply had to give up on that member, because he's against the constitution, that every vote where he voted in '91, he's against the constitution and as such rated by the Constitutional Commission as anti-constitutional, you know, because you can't take away the voting rights of the citizens of BiH and stand up for what you said ahead. I warn you in the best sense, because if, you know, here I am speaking in general, unless we respect our BiH constitution, and swear in BiH, this seems to be the same as during communism, just say first that you're for another Tito, and then talk whatever you want, but don't act like one. Let us find real solutions in the constitutional frameworks and I am a member of the Constitutional Commission and indeed 20 constitutional committees, as you said, have made a huge effort and found some compromise solutions and I would ask you in this sense that we all focus together, but that now we do not pour out with some proposals that we may be discussing for a year and never bring any solution. It is up to all gentlemen to launch an initiative to amend the BiH Constitution. But until that moment, speak against constitutionally and propose against constitutional solutions, believe it is an attack on BiH. Anyone who does so will certainly not contribute to this state any good, but works directly against it. I'd like to ask you to focus on that in order to pass the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4065	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. Replica, MP Emina Zaćiragić. This is a replica on the replica. There's no dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4066	I welcome all those present, I would just like to say a few words regarding the constitutionality of the proposed draft law, electoral law and the question, the relationship of this law to the European Convention on Human First and Universal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4067	poslanik Zaćiragić, are you a replica or a regular debater.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4068	This is a replica. We have an unconstitutional situation in BiH. The parliament is in charge of monitoring and intervention the constitutional situation. We have a decision by the Constitutional Court in which the constitutionality of the people should be achieved throughout BiH. All deadlines are over. We're late to implement that Constitutional Court decision and now we're calling on the Constitution. I'd just like to remind you that if we had my Framework Peace Agreement, it contains more annexes than the Constitution. You have Annex VII you have Annex VI on human first and you have Annex IV that gives BiH frames. We've come to a situation where we're late for decisions with the implementation of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people and now we're calling on the Constitution. I think that constitution is no longer a constitution, and this parliament should deal with the constitutional issue in BiH and the constitutional position of BiH. What's the Constitution now? If the Constitutional Court has made a decision on the constitutionality of the people throughout the BiH area, and Annex IV does not contain it clearly, then it is not the Constitution and we are not in one constitutional position in which we can discuss the Constitution. Not to talk about the European Convention on Human Rights and the Universal Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Human Rights of the UN. We insist on the adoption of the Election Law and violate the conscious European Convention on Human Rights, and in the preamble to that constitution, the European Convention states that the law is above all laws. We are passing the Election Law directly contrary to the European Convention on Human First just to enter the Council of Europe. It's a famous paradox and I've never heard of anything like it in the world. In the Council of Europe, human rights will be applied. We knowingly violate these human rights in the Electoral Law, to enter the Council of Europe, which will protect our rights. We can't just talk about Constitution aneks IV we need to talk about the Framework Agreement for Peace, what about aneks vi who brought BiH into such an unconstitutional position, that the decision of the Constitutional Court cannot be implemented for such a long period of time and that it insists on the adoption of the Election Law, directly contrary to the European Convention on 21 Human Rights, directly to enter into this Council of Europe that protects those rights. Some things don't make sense to me, and I'm against that kind of approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4069	You have an opportunity to discuss it. This was a replica. Replica Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4070	Just a short replica. I said the SDP stays with its amendments, not giving up its amendments. The second thing, everything we've suggested, will either be in accordance with this constitution. We are aware that the change in the Constitution requires a two-thirds majority in the BiH Parliament, and we know that it is not possible for dogs in this composition of Parliament, and we know all constitutional constraints, but all of our solutions that we are exceeding are moving within the framework of the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4071	I thank Ambassador Bogićević. MP's intervention, Ambassador Banajc.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4072	Respected Presidency and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm really not going to say this anymore, but I'm saying this as an MP and as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. There are three ways for someone to get a word and let's already use it as people who know what it says and we know how to do it. This is an incorrect allegation, when someone's discussion can have consequences for a lack of understanding or error of guidance. Then, the replica when someone is directly called, and that one should turn around. There's not a single speaker here who says a replica. What is the replica of people and the third half-way intervention when the injured Rules of Procedure are to be cited by a member of the Rules of Procedure who has injured what the predecessor has said. I'm saying this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is it necessary to list the members, if I have to, I ask you, Mr. Chairman, that we are wasting our time here on wild stories, which do not refer to what the words are for.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4073	Thank you. Anybody else got a line? There isn't. Let's go on a regular basis. Ambassador Šašivarević, you've already had one word, haven't you? There's a line, before you were Councilman Cuplov, but no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4074	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I will only read here the explanation of the Club of Representatives of the SBiH for which we have surrendered and insisted that we accept the procedure of our amendment, amendments. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4075	Ambassador Šašivarević, you will understand my intervention. I ask you, whether there are any MPs who want to discuss more, exclusively the principles and political elements of the Electoral Law or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4076	This is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4077	I'm asking you not to discuss members yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4078	We estimate that the adoption of the BiH Election Law is a priority and we believe that the law needs to be adopted as soon as possible, as this is also the basic condition for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. Parts of the law concerning the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the constitutionality and equality of the people throughout BiH need to be adopted before the negotiating changes to the entity's constitutions, as the electoral law cannot be passed with gaps. The application of the OSCE's Interim Election Rules is not a solution, as they come from the provisions of the entity's constitution, which have been declared unconstitutional and invalid by the Constitutional Court, which is final and binding. The draft election law is the first document, which actually defines the position and equality of the citizens of BiH, regardless of which nations, religions, political beliefs, sex, entity membership or any member. For this reason, we insist that the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and Freedoms, which is guaranteed that everyone has the same right to access public services in their country, each has the right to participate in the management of their country, directly or in the pit of free elected representatives, as well as in the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, of the International Civil and Political Rights Treaty, which, under the provisions of the BiH Constitution, has priority over domestic law and above every law of this country. Also, the Dayton Agreement obliges BiH to respect the document of the second meeting of the Conference on Human Dimension, the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, Copenhagen 1990. Specially binding provisions to ensure that the will of the people serves as the basis of the authority of the participating country government to grant universal and equal voting rights for all adult citizens and to respect the right of the person or group to establish their own party or other political organisations in full freedom, and to provide such political parties and organisations with the necessary legal guarantees, in order to enable them to compete on the basis of equal treatment before law and authorities. With election law, we want to exercise the existing segregation, discrimination, as well as the condition that has continued... by violating the human first in BiH. We can do that by applying standards that we probably believe are civilized. We will pass a law but not one that will be against the BiH Constitution and that over 30% of BiH citizens can never think of being elected to the BiH presidency or to any home of the people, where national interests are represented. 23 The fact that entities have not implemented the Constitutional Court's decision, and they were obliged to do so, cannot limit the BiH Parlametary Assembly from adopting provisions in the law that comply with that decision and which meet international human rights standards, guaranteed by the BiH Constitution. We want to express justifiable concern by draft amendments to the RS Constitution. Proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. They clearly show that the historic decision, the state's highest court, which is final and binding, wants to avoid inducing the retention of existing inequality and discrimination against two other constituent peoples in BiH. The last amendment supports the return of refugees and displaced to their homes and persons who have occupied other people’s apartments or houses, according to the 1991 census, of the municipalities in which they were resident. Party for BiH MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4079	I thank Ambassador Šašivarević. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4080	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I am sorry that it is not entirely here at the Council of Ministers, and in particular the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but I must show my satisfaction on behalf of the HDZ Club that the president of the SDP Club, a party that is leading the Alliance, has nevertheless recognised the international community's error in the Temporal Elections, which were in 2000, offering one solution, which will resolve such a complex and complicated situation. But we are filled here with the mouth of the Council of Europe, as we should, as we must do. I don't even know how many of us here understand what the Council of Europe is, what it is that we get, what we should do to be a member of Europe in the truth. If we're going to be a member of Europe that we can charge each other with human rights violations, then that's an ideal thing. Then we will all, each other, say that we have been violated by human rights in BiH. If we are going to create BiH, that it is true that BiH will be respected as human first, where the fundamental rights of all the constituent peoples and citizens of BiH will be respected, then I am for such a thing, and that this is a reform, I think it is not good, but I hope, given that here are the people who are co-responsible, who can certainly contribute to the adoption of one law, a complete law, which will regulate the matter. However, everyone boasts, the Council of Ministers boasts that one of its great successes has succeeded, says putting in the draft of the electoral law, the Constitutional Commission says it did really well, worked hard, everyone boasts, but I will look back at the criticisms of both, the only and the other. When it comes to the Council of Ministers, I must say that, at least in my knowledge, mostly the law that the OSCE made, they may have done a little bit of work at their session held on 12.4.2001, decided to refer this law to the procedure. However, since they have taken power or incompetence, it took her almost a month to refer this law to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, or it is a lack of knowledge, or it is a tactical trap, which meant something to be achieved to lead to a situation that 24 in the truth falls into pieces with time and that we have a situation to squeeze on the one hand as it should, and on the other hand, the administration took almost a month, which means 12.4. However, I have no intention of praising anyone, but the College has professionally done its job, which he immediately passed on, when it comes to singing to the Constitutional-First Commission, however, there has been little of the same indiscretion, where I must say immediately, that I have had an objection to the work of the Constitutional-First Commission, in view of the gravity and importance of this law, I believe that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which has considered this law and how it had to take care of the gravity of this law and before, in Article 87, in its position 1st paragraph 1. Before entering this section, I believe that it should have used Article 90(1) to open up a public debate on the gravity of this law and attitude 2 that speaks of the regulation of this matter and gives time of 15 days. However, apparently, I didn't seem to have enough time, or was there not enough will to have this part going through this procedure to open up to the public at first, where they would get a far more qualitative law, and on the straight, they were in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the commission was working, because it was in a tight spot with time, for which I consider a long time state of this law in the Council of Ministers responsible. When it comes to the further part and to determining the principle on which this law was done, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has found, indeed, the principles set out in this law, but it also did not say which principles were not laid down and which are of strategic interest to this law, which is that here in this law, equality, constitutionality and sovereignty of all peoples and citizens of BiH should be regulated. With this law, which came from the Council of Ministers, as a draft, a lot has been released, of course, to what we intervened with the amendments, what when there was another part of the debate, I will talk about as well as the amendments we welcome that the Constitutional and Legal Commission accepted from the HDZ Club, with the fact that we will have these objections and I say now I will not talk about it, because even in one amendment there is no constitutional basis that has been introduced either by technical error, or in truth, so I was not on that Constitutional and Legal Commission. However, the essence of all the laws, especially this law, which I agree with Mr. Bogić Bogićević, for the first time to agree with the SDP, but in the truth BiH needs to bring and set in such a way that none of the three constituent and sovereign peoples is strong enough to endanger each other or another weak enough to fear anyone. So, once we reach that part, we will achieve a stable and acceptable international community of BiH. The international community will come to BiH and BiH will not go to the international community. I think a lot of things need to be changed and set up in a different way, because this election law is so strategic, and here it's going to show me to cut short, I don't know what to think of very quickly, but to cut short, one combination. Are we for BiH or not BiH? Here we will see all those who, for BiH, want in the truth of BiH and the equality of its peoples, and who is for cosmetic change, or for the domination of the one over the other. I think it is neither good for BiH nor for the peoples, nor for the international community. Because BiH is a powder keg in the southist Eurpa area. Without stabilising BiH, the truth will not stabilise the entire area of Southeast Europe, and these are very clear reasons. I don't think the international administration, which is present here, has been sufficiently familiar with the mentality of BiH citizens and its peoples, has had enough knowledge of BiH's history to make the right decisions. One of the main things that are happening first from the circles of the international 25 community, the process, and the decision-making itself, is mostly a shortened procedure, not supporting the procedure in full procedure and seeing that there is a mistake. The international community, of course, cannot take a step backwards because it discredits itself. But I'm glad that SDP did it that he told the truth and saw the problem. Of course, HDZ was also the party that voted and when it voted on BiH for an overall and democratic BiH, and it is still on for the day today, but it is not for the domination and majorisation of the unity of the nations over the other and the truth is looking for the sovereignty and consistency of the people throughout the area. The constitutionality for us means nothing, unless it is accompanied by sovereignty, unless every nation is sovereign and when it is internal and external sovereignty, unless it decides in the truth about its fate, it means nothing and it is not at all a people and it cannot maintain the levers of nationality and the state thus cannot support the levers of statehood, and if we move from the point of view that the state is sovereign to the extent that its peoples are sovereign, then in truth, if any of these three nations are not sovereign, the state is not sovereign anymore, it is not BiH, because there is no longer those holders of sovereignty, who are, in truth, the holders of the sovereignty of this state. Here, I'm doing it in the global part, in truth, the electoral law we need to pass, of course, find a solution to how we will satisfy the forms, the procedure of the constitution is certainly necessary. The HDZ Representatives Club has already proposed amendments to the Constitution of BiH, which, of course, requires one procedure that we hope will certainly produce results, and of course we have to look critically at the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, which I have been going on for too long, and now we wonder what will happen if it is not regulated by this electoral law. How long will all this take and the implementation of this constitutional decision and on the right how to intervene when new elections come to us, and regarding the Election Law, but well, that's where we'll find it. In truth, we must say that we disagree, regardless of what someone thought we did not agree to replace the constitutional committees of the people's homes. For us, the homes of the people are those who must be mechanisms, where they must be, there must be mechanisms in them that protect vital national interests and in truth must choose every nation for themselves, in order to protect vital interests in this nation, because a unit of federal, or entity that does not have a home of the people, the constitutional commission, or cannot stop some laws, it can self-represent opinions and it is a reform to you, so to say, in this way, it is not worth anything and we will certainly not agree, and I do not think that any of the three constituent peoples will mind having homes of the people in the whole, and in the RS and the Federation, through which they will protect vital interests, of course, it will require the implementation of this constitutional decision, and in the further procedure, when it comes to the further forming of the entire space of BiH, of course, there will be, there will be time. As far as this part of the amendment is concerned, since I've already taken the floor, I don't know if it's too long, you've allowed it, you can't let someone and someone on his charm or because he's cute, if the Rules of Procedure exists. Then I fully understand what the procedure for the new amendment is, and that is Article 94(3). They must be delivered, then you as a College will consider whether they are the ones who change the essential part or not. Otherwise, I don't think he can, because one of the strategically wrong administrations, for me, was responsible for the Council of Ministers, which didn't lead right after making a decision at his session of the law in the procedure, and I still don't speak, because the MPs weren't guilty, which they had a short period of time and they had another way to bridge it. Thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4081	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. The next debater is Ambassador Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4082	Mr. Chairman, esteemed members of the Presidency, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, I am very pleased that, in this way, one of the fundamental laws is presented to us at the stage of the proposal and that we objectively have the opportunity to improve and make it more quality. Of course, we have entered the time pressure and I have to comment that, not by my fault, the Party for BiH has not delivered amendments in the period in which it is scheduled. As far as I'm concerned, and if it's a bit of a mix-up, Mr. Titan has put in a bit of a mix-up, it seems to me that we've agreed to enter the procedure for those amendments in front of the BiH Party. I think that this law must, in principle, make some fundamental changes in the parts relating to the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the basis of the consistency of all three peoples in the BiH area, i.e. the law in this form cannot be adopted or implemented in practice, especially as the Election Law represents one of the fundamental laws. I must say that, too, the Mdrid Declaration prefers multiethnicity of constituent units at this time in BiH according to the Dayton structure and a whole series of members to frame this law, virtually eliminates multiethnicity and gives exclusive rights to certain national groups and the provision of other groups or members of others. Some solutions must also change, because in the proposal, they literally accept and concreteize the situation arising from the war and in the debate on certain members, I hope that there will be an opportunity to question the fairness of those members in this form. I must also point out that the instruments that provide, that the election results of the elections are legally implemented, are not adequate from my point of view and that the electoral commission, as one operational body, is not sufficient to guarantee that all principles and legality are respected in such a significant business. It is a more technical body and I think that it should also retain a previous solution that allowed at a single centre to count control of the entire electoral system. This was not given as an option in the proposed electoral law. My impression is that, by the way, this bill, or the bill of law, was designed as if this were a well-organized environment, because with full legal structures throughout the territory, which guarantees full personal and collective freedoms of all its citizens. We all know that there has been a war here, that there has been a very significant movement of the population and in that segment, there is the impression that this situation is not sufficiently respected through a series of members of the draft electoral law. With this I thought that in the preamble to the general provisions, I should make sure that the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which in a certain way would protect all citizens of this country and make it impossible for events to occur because of a series of indetermination, and I must say in one part of the completely wrong proposals and one of them must be singled out. It's the one where the temporary stay of six months, practically allows the citizen of the biH, that on that part of the vote, which basically brings us into a situation where the universal principle of multiethnicity in the entire space is peddling. Of course, they have concrete proposals for 27 amendments, made by the BiH Party, which in a certain way specify the situation and seem to me to be better quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4083	I thank Ambassador Cuplow. So we're still talking about the principles of the proposed electoral law. poslanik Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4084	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, we have two electoral laws again today. We know that in the previous term we have had two or three electoral laws, both in the draft and the proposal, and that we have not reached a permanent electoral law, I now expect that this time we will come to the electoral law, in that part of the second reading, the amendments, when we will fix one of these variants and come because it is known that the electoral laws in all democratic countries are one of the essential features for the real choice and for the equality of all voters when they choose their MPs. I would say that the proposal, a little bit on the proposal of the vice-president, or representative Mariofil Ljubić, mainly comes from the constitutionality of the people in all areas, and includes a principle and good solution for the election of the people in their homes, or representative of the people in their homes, but that in part of the explanation and in part of Chapter IX where the selection is mentioned, because the vice-president, the president of the entities and members of the presidency in the previous chapter, we are in some way seeking all symmetric solution, in the area of BiH, means solutions in both entities, in some ways there is expressive asymmetricity here. There are particular differences when it comes to selecting the presidents and vice presidents of the Federation, President and Vice-President of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have in the proposal that they have an impact on the election of all nations, and we are talking about, starting with the constitutional constitutional constitution, we need to know that constitutional solutions so far are such that they limit our ability to properly apply, in the whole area, the electoral law, which has been proposed before and certain variations but in this part we would have to strive with symmetric solutions when it comes to elections and it would be better if we had a void and application of the Interim Election Rules than before, rather than an asymmetric order. It is true that we all advocate constitutionality and that Mr. Grabovac said it in his earlier resignation, so it would be good if the proposals included some sort of proposal. I expect that we, as Parliament, or parties, will reach a certain consensus on the electoral law and that, in some way in another reading, we will have to go through the amendments, in the amendments that we will propose to the electoral law, which will in some way have symmetric solutions in the BiH area, avoid this possibility of symmetry, especially the influence of all in the election of the president and vice-president of the Federation, member of the Federation presidency and in the inability of the influence of especially Hrvat and Bošnjak, when it comes to elections in the RS space, both vice presidents and presidents of both the presidency. I think we need to come up with one proposal today, one of the variants to be scrapped and those parts and chapters that are identical to the picture and to get the amendments to as many electoral legislation as possible that will reflect the consistency of all three peoples in the entire BiH area and the symmetric arrangements. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4085	I thank Ambassador Lozančić, MP Baković has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4086	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, Mr. Chairman, I've come out here to say something about election law, and I say something like that, I'll say it in general. But in my opinion, what I'm about to say is, in my opinion, it's very important. In fact, I am offended by the procedure of individual MPs, because these problems are approached with a certain fear or even with a certain awe, even with some burden, thinking that, perhaps, BiH will fail if the electoral law, in the imagined concept, is not brought in at that time, and then is called European, called for the European Convention, the European Council, the entry of BiH into that council, as if our fate and the fate of our people depended only on it now and as if we are passing this electoral law not for us, but for the sake of others. And here I think of this electoral law, that we must articulate the legal, political and moral interests of our peoples, the people who live here, and the even cleaning man from Baščaršija and that cleaner from my Livn and those shepherds and fishermen and so on. I think I'm clear, and in that sense, we have to work on these things, too, keeping an important account. I don't know what we're so burdened about, what other people are going to tell us is that we're so burdened with what others are asking us to do. I think we should, first of all, take care of what our base, our man, asks of us. There I am clear, and by... and from that I do not stand down. Furthermore, I'd say a few words, I won't be stuck, I won't be dimmed, I won't be camouflaged into any party, and especially I won't be covered by the cloak of some citizen, some civility, some civil options, although I respect a man, a citizen, a citizen, a citizen of BiH. But I came out here to say about election law a few things. In my opinion, the Election Law is just as important and valuable, as valid as the Constitution itself, and now when we talk about it and when we bring it, we need to make sure that the value of this electoral law is not only for today and tomorrow, but perhaps for a longer period, for a few years, perhaps for a few decades. But I belong to HDZ and belong to the Croatian people, who are the fewth in BiH. What I'm saying is that this electoral law must be such as to protect the constitutionality of all peoples, especially that of the people who are the fewest. Therefore, as HDZ as its club, which we have won in the elections the plebiscite support of the Croatian people in BiH, we are representing and we will fight, we do not want to create explicit situations, but we will desperately fight to preserve the home of the people, not to deconstitute and, otherwise, in general, in BiH which are decon... of the people and especially the fewth people so far, all the practices in the Federation, almost on the ground being carried out, is the process, the rapid process, deconstituting that people. What happened at Herzegovina Bank, what's going on in public enterprises is all that, but about that later. The presidency should also be elected from a particular people, i.e. through the elections or votes of the party that won the elections. If it is not otherwise for other peoples, if it is not taken care of, I doubt that BiH, based, will be composed, on a centralised principle and on a civil principle, where 29 will be so-called. The civil option wins, that it will have a particular future and that it will have lasting peace and lasting stability. However, I would like here, as a man and as a citizen of BiH, to say that it would be time to take the electoral law, and perhaps the amendments to the Constitution etc. once created a stable political and first situation in BiH, to make as few choices as possible, as few of these plays as possible, and to do something and create one. Therefore, I believe that this electoral law should be stable and that it has some sort of all time-consuming meaning. If there is no rchaun about the constitutionality of the people, if the national element is eliminated or reduced to some difficult recognizable side, I think there will be a crisis or something like that again. I think that I was also clear that in the design of legal consciousness and original material in BiH, not only should lawyers play a role, but also historians and sociologists, economists, etc., that once we may overcome this unpleasant experience in BiH, and I think that the peoples of both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak in BiH must live and that the country must articulate on itself the most appropriate and symbolic way. Otherwise, they don't have a future. And that's why I'm saying, I'm against it, and maybe that's how it has to be, to give limited deadlines 21.6, that it has to be over, and maybe it has to be, I don't know, I'm not getting into it right now, but I'm telling you and you're limiting factors, I'm afraid it's not just that we're just going to get into this election law by getting into these European communities and in a month or two days let's just let Jovo rebuild the new electoral law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4087	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, so we all know that this election law is already in some procedure, a debate since 1999, and that it is really high time to be adopted. We also know that a large number of the chapters and members of this election law, the proposal for the electoral law that we have received, has already been applied in the last elections we had in November 2000. What you hear from me, which is that someone who has conducted the election under these rules and regulations has failed to carry out some sort of analysis, so that they question whether those basic principles have proved to be good, whether our preferred way of voting is good. Did the compensation mandates, too, give their results. I personally think they're not, and I'm going to show some concrete arguments and facts. You see, in particular, the SNSD and DSP coalition in this assembly in this House of Representatives received 66,684 votes and have one mandate. Compared to the Serbian People's Union and the SDP, the specifically Serbian People's Union received over 28,000 or SDP 32,000. So if someone ran the analysis, then they'd ask if it's good, if someone who gets two and a half times as many votes has one mandate over the other. Or another example, here we have, in particular, four MPs from the four Federation parties, who received 15, 16, 17 and 18,000 who have a mandate, have MPs who are fully aware of one party from the RS who had 20,427 votes and has no mandate. Or another example, in the electoral unit one for this same home, the Serbian Democratic Party received 86,010 votes and has only one mandate, so please, is now someone, again in electoral law, we have the same thing. So we have compensatory mandates, with a goal, maybe it's like correcting a mistake and obviously it's not the first mistake, and I think that's what I should say now in passing this law to think about whether these principles are good that I'm not talking right now about a preferential way of voting that is so complicated that it takes a man to be overly written to vote properly. 30 Also, what I think this law should have made possible a little bit more, he should have, however, regulated the general principles at all levels of government in BiH and I think that a little left to entities to change certain things and the possibility to specifically, I think that it should have been possible for entities to at least elect members of election commissions, or election commissions of BiH. It means that the NS RS is proposing two members as far as planned, and normally this home is giving a final decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4088	Thank you, Ambassador Jovanović. Ambassador Amidžić. We're about to predict a break, a concentration and attention drop a little bit. I would ask the MPs to call again those who are so that they can decide to move on to the debate on members of the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4089	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I will talk about the principles, i.e. in the principles but only under point 2.b. So, about Mr Ljubić's Proposal for Election Law, because I have the feeling that otherwise the debate synthesizes both proposals in one way and in a way that is too generally spoken. So, not about materials, but about the choice and need of regulation of this matter in BiH. What I will talk about, above all, is due to a significant political moment for BiH in which this is discussed and the importance of the law that needs to be passed in one or another variant. At first, I would like to make my point, or to give a few arguments and notes, for which I, as a representative of the HDZ Parliament, gave my support to Mr Ljubić's proposal. It's only in five tips. First, the proposed law is complete. He's better than the proposal delivered by the Council of Ministers. It's better, more consistent, containing all the solutions that should have the electoral law. The way, or algorithm that we're dealing with these issues on the agenda, suggests an opportunity, and the course of things will go so that the worse the proposal will improve. All right. It is possible to get out of the situation in such a way, when voting and making a solution. But I suggest that, then, in the overall debate, and at the time of the plea, it does not try to be aware of point 2.a.b. At point 2 or, at the very same time, that we always treat the thinking of ideas, proposals, normally to apostrophe of the existing atmosphere that there is likely to be a final solution to the electoral law at BiH level. This now depends on the motionary. Secondly, the proposal I'm talking about is on the trail of constitutional solutions in BiH that are valid. It is true that he anti-civilises some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the consistency of all three peoples, throughout the BiH area, but as alternatives and should not be understood as an attempt to violate relations established by the highest legal acts at the level of entities and BiH, means as ideas, as alternatives, as something which is one direction of our behaviour and reflection in the further establishment of normal political relations in BiH. Third, this proposal, looking at, or considering electoral units, i.e. entities as single, or all of BiH's electoral units, harmonizes the situation in the electoral body, which answers these issues that were raised in the 31st debate. So the will of the electorate then comes more importantly to expression. Fourth, the proposal responds to the current political moment in BiH and ways of resolving the political crisis, when it comes to the position of the Croatian people both in the presidency and in the home of the people. Fifth, I understand this as my own attempt, an attempt to make its own contribution to BiH's bid to be admitted to the Council of Europe. To achieve feedback, the influence of democratic relations in a united Europe on democratisation of relations in BiH. Now, a few, perhaps, is one trip in relation to the solution offered. In an alternative, in one of the alternatives when it comes to the election of members of the presidency, the proposal speaks, namely, of a member of the BiH presidency being elected in parliament. Talks, preparations for this session, etc. They tell me that it will not be accepted and it is considered unconstitutional, because, however, we have a law on filling the vacant seat in the Presidency and it is already being done in our practice in BiH. I consider this a very important idea, because first of all it is to strengthen Parliament's parliamentaryism and position in BiH, against the executive authority, and if it is not accepted, I suggest that consideration be given, meaning, and, in overall political relations, that is, on issues of the political system of BiH, when it comes to the distribution of power. I will now have one brief relationship, my determination against the consent of the Constitutional Commission, that is, those opening remarks. By adopting this law, if we succeed in adopting it in the tolerance and atmosphere of reconciliation of ideas and proposals that are possible it will certainly establish a natural flow of things and relationships. Natural laws say crazy stronger than anything possible. Something that's normal, natural. Because let's stop talking about fighting for constitutionality and equality, because let's finally make it happen. Because one nation thinks it's unequal in BiH, and that's not a small question. The solutions offered, in the sense of compromise '96-'98. years are good solutions. They're good solutions because they're a compromise. Because they come from their own practice. They start from not inventing hot water but to take solutions from the experience of their own, where there was the least difficulty in implementation, and from the occasion these two electoral prairie were the most stable election periods in the overall political relations and I think if it is acceptable, then I understand it as such, and I am also willing to work on defining these provisions further, in the way that it was offered. Finally, the five of us in this Parliament and the MPs who supported Mr Ljubić's proposal are very concerned that the overall public in BiH, especially our voters understand these positive efforts and our efforts to reach the best solution to the Electoral Law in BiH. So I ask them all to take a closer look at the solutions offered and to give some expert assessments and reviews to the public, because both prepared and offered solutions and also to the efforts we need to make in order to most of it be accepted in this home. We understand, one more question. This election law will be the number one chance for BiH to become, or become, part of a united Europe, but also if it is made to fail, to the detriment of anyone, it can also be a watershed of the overall state and political climate in BiH. Why I appeal, I am not in favour of the democratic course of the debate, I support the proposals and efforts that are going towards a solution, and I offer these thoughts for 32 practical relations in the second part of this proposal by Mr Ljubić's election law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4090	I thank Ambassador Amidžić. Co-chairman Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4091	Dear guests, honourable MPs, we have before us the Election Law, before us to resolve the key remaining conditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. BiH will be admitted to the Council of Europe, but it better be done as soon as possible, rather than waiting and eventually being admitted as the last European country to be admitted to the Council of Europe. We didn't set a deadline of 22.6. Someone else did. We heard it in the last session. If we miss that deadline, maybe we're not laughing until 2003. So, as responsible MPs, I think we should pass the Electoral Law. We cannot expect others to solve our problems, but we ourselves must solve our problems, as well as other European countries. This is the way to European integration, and the first step is to join the Council of Europe. A question was asked about the BiH Constitutional Court's decision. Under the decision, it is necessary to harmonise the entity's constitutions with the BiH Constitution. This house and this assembly are not in charge of entity constitutions and constitutional amendments to the entity constitutions, but only for constitutional amendments to the BiH Constitution. That, therefore, is our activity. We are witnessing that a constitutional change procedure has been initiated in both entities, but as any act of change in the constitution, the latter takes place. In all countries, the constitution is slowly changing. The process of amending the constitution is complicated because each country wants to safeguard its constitutional and legal stability. In the end, let me remind you. The present assembly of the House of Representatives is elected under PIC rules. Based on PIC principles. These principles and those rules were incorporated into the law proposed by the Constitutional-First Commission, which had previously been the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which we know has been prepared by the OSCE. Members of other BiH institutions and members of other institutions in BiH, from municipality to BiH institutions, were elected according to the first PICs, according to principles and the first to be incorporated into the draft election law. And the present assembly, gentlemen, and all the previous summations. Therefore, there is no reason to, in accordance with Article 95. We do not accept the Rules of Procedure as it says in the Rules of Procedure, the necessity and principles on which the bill has been based. I think we should move towards a statement to make that statement and move on to further procedure on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4092	I thank President Mirjanić. Member of the Parliament of the Mediha Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4093	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, allow me, here's the first, at least not to mention that members of the HDZ, colleagues from the HDZ, have returned to Parliament, just to say no. Here we are talking, the point is the Electoral Law, which, you see, is most intrigued as a prerequisite for our acceptance, based on our admission into, as a member of the Council of Europe. Someone asked what we're getting by being a member of the Council of Europe, so just fiscally, if you'll allow a few things I would like to underline, since I've been a visiting member of our delegation to the world of Europe for four years. 33 You know that there are three basic pillars on which the world of Europe lies, which are primarily the rule of law, so if they were to become a member of the Council of Europe, they would be a country in which the government would be a right rather than individuals, and thus they would carry out a broad democratisation, as well as demystriction and politicians who are simply people who are doing one responsible profession, and we all know that there are other very important and responsible professions and not just politics. We should respect strictly human rights and the rights of human minorities, as well as fundamental freedoms, which we need because in this system we cannot boast that we respect human rights, which is a bloody testimony from the past five years, four years of war, and these five years we cannot boast. Our entry into the Council of Europe will oblige us not to meet the conditions which are a little suppressed in our memory and still stand as conditions for our reception, which is to co-operate with The Hague tribunal and to extradite all those suspected of war crimes. To spend the full Annex VII, therefore, allowing everyone to return to their homes, their cities, and villages, and to honor the inviolability of private property. To respect freedom of speech. The freedom of the media, the freedom of movement and to do what the civilized world does, the countries that are members of the Council of Europe and which, at the age of 49 of the 5th of May when they organized this institution of the Council of Europe, made a strict decision which, thank Bog and so far, is that all the problems, whether individually, were nationalally solved by negotiation, compromise, and beyond, in our homes of the people. We are the only country that has signed the Stability Pact and is not a member of the Council of Europe, which can lead us to the situation that, economically, we are not progressing whether investments in Southeast Europe can pass a country that is not a member of the Council of Europe. Let me remind you that this election law has already been on the agenda several times. The first time he went public in front of the OSCE, we didn't adopt him here in the previous parliament, because we had, don't forget a very violent reaction, a very violent reaction from thinking people, social workers, university professors, BiH citizens who respected democracy, who thought such an election law were being discriminated against and that their human rights were not respected. It was an explicit requirement from a large majority of citizens who want a modern, civilised democratic state, that such an electoral law does not allow them to participate actively and passively and thus directly endanger their human rights. Such a reaction to the public, and we are the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so we were first elected by those who disagree with the fact that they do not have an active and passive right throughout the BiH territory, has led to a delay in the adoption of a new electoral law. Following the discussions of my colleagues in this home, I came up with an idea, of course, with the consultation of the members of the Party for BiH, to suggest to you, because somehow from our discussions it comes from. We now have two big questions, one respecting the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the BiH people across the BiH territory and another, we have a permanent Electoral Law. If it is the tendency and way of working in the countries of the Council of Europe, that everything is made at the green table, that all decisions are made by negotiation and compromise, here I suggest we establish one compromise, because there is no, I mean no legal obstacle not to do so, and that is that, parallelly, therefore, we have two problems. We have a problem, it's not a problem, we have a decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH and we have an Electoral Law. Which is why not all the points in the Electoral Law, which are controversial and which we cannot agree on, because they are in line with the constitution of the people, for which 34 of these members of the Electoral Law would not right now, in them incompated the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which is binding for us, because the BiH Constitutional Court is older than this Parliament, and perhaps thus give a sign to our voters that we are for a democratic, civil, civilised, modern state, which will function and will be self-sustainable and modeled, in which Member States of the Council of Europe live. This will allow us to enter the Council of Europe in this year and allow only, Mr Mirjanić talked about it, but not only can it happen, that our reception, if we do not meet this basic precondition, is delayed for 2003, but it can happen to us, since we have been guests in one institution for six years, it may happen to us to take down our application, and then, according to the Statute of the Council of Europe, we would have to wait a few years, to renew the application and to do the whole process. I don't think that would get approval from those who gave us the confidence to represent them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4094	I would like to thank Ambassador Medihi Filipović. Replica, Ambassador Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4095	I have to replicate. The HDZ representative club, which does not belong to a group of write-offs, has therefore gone nowhere, and there has been, and the result and indicator of that, has only applied another way of working, which is democratic, which is an indication that BiH is going along a democratic path and is developing democracy in it. And the result of their work is the Electoral Law, which is, of which you are discussing today. Therefore, we should not be welcomed at all, we have chosen a method of work to point to a problem aimed at stabilising BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4096	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. We have two other debaters, as I first wrote, MP Mijatović and MP Vukić. I don't see any Mijatović here. Ambassador Vukić has the word and more Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4097	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that this debate today leads us to the adoption of the Electoral Law. We need to be realistic and aware of one state in which we are, under the impression of the choices that we have been through and these five months of impeling results, we see that the principle of transparency has indeed not been represented by the count itself, which in some way has been, but it has not been transparent, of which, from the way anyone is going to be, from the way of forming the House of the People of the Federation, and in this law is not even mentioned at this time in the House of the Federation, which is very important to us, of which, Mr Mirjanić should be shown whether the home of the people will exist in RS. A whole series of questions, very important, where we need to create that sense of security of institutional protection, but I say, there is good will. I must say, that we, as representatives of the HDZ, are certainly particularly and proud to point out, because we have received, however, one pre-bistical support from our electoral body, to represent the interest of this electoral body, but I say in that positive direction, means that we come to a solution that will be acceptable to all. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4098	I thank Ambassador Vikući. Replica presides Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4099	Very briefly, since you called me by my name, I have to answer you. Here, I'm not the only MP from the RS, there are more. Secondly, as will be the constitutional arrangement of the RS, it depends not on the will of Mr Mirjanić, nor on the will of 14 MPs from the RS at the House of Representatives, but on the envy of the National Assembly of the RS, which is authorised, competent to bring and amend the RS Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4100	I thank Ambassador Mirjanić. poslanik Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4101	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I came here today to the assembly with the aim of hearing all these opinions and adopting the Election Law. However, listening to all these discussions, from three hours ago, I got the impression that those who are the most able to enter this Council of Europe, who are increasingly proposing that the more complicated they are the adoption of this law, the more we are in the Constitution, the constitutional decision in the jurisdiction of the entities and everything else that is in politics unarranged, undefined, yet to be defined, as if by this law today we are all the problems that are in BiH, which we have solved, because we have started, from history, until we don't know what we are. Basically, the goal is that the law, this equality, the constitutionality of the people and the sovereignty of the people, and I think that the experts who did this law, the OHR experts, the lawyers in the given situation, etc. proposed a transparent law, which at this time could possibly be accepted. Therefore, I plead that we go, if our goal is and we really are to adopt the law, to make a contribution to the adoption of the law, not how we're going to break it so that it doesn't get adopted. I really, look, we can't now issue a book of 2,000 old people and all the issues that are not solved in BiH, by election law, but by respecting the Constitution, to respect, we're against it, people tell us that we're for Dayton and they say we need to abolish the RS, we need to abolish the entity, so it's annihilation in BiH. I am therefore to respect the Dayton Peace Agreement here, to respect this constitutionality and equality of the people of all BiH, etc., but the fact is now that it is so defined, as defined by the Constitution and BiH and by the constitution of the entities that we apply it, and I have no objection to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision in BiH, but everything has its turn and needs to be implemented. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm for the adoption of the Election Law, and I'd like to pray if we have the will to adopt it, to move on to these members later and adopt it within a certain time limit. I'm not on those deadlines, but we have to respect it now, if it's said to be 22, that we really respect that deadline, so if we need to not go home for three days, we have to adopt the law and go on the road to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4102	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. We've exhausted the debates for this first part of point 2. Discussing two electoral laws, one electoral law as a proposal from the Council of Ministers and another election law as the Proposal for MP Mariofil Ljubić. 36 By completing this part, objectively, I would like to thank one dialogue on tolerance, trust and demand for making better solutions to both electoral laws, and with all elements of political wisdom and accountability to the constitutional and legal architecture of BiH, according to the Constitution of BiH and normally according to the Dayton Agreement, which is a legal document, which means that we have to the greatest extent articulated these principles, together with the principles, that is to say, the views it has given and reflected in its report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So we can be quite satisfied with this during the discussion and opt to move on to the discussion of the members of the proposed election laws. I'm asking you to finish. So far, we have had everything, to move on to the discussion of members of the electoral laws and in this context, then give a break for up to three hours and continue and prepare for dialogue on members of the electoral law. Ambassador Šašivarević, please. That's what we predicted a break. So let's make a statement. Who is it to move on to the discussion of members of the proposed electoral laws? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. - 2 versus - 3. Anybody got any abstentions? – 1 With 31 votes for – 3 against and 1 abstention we have chosen to move on to the discussion of the members of the proposed electoral laws. Thank you. Break till 3:00. ... meeting of the 9th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. [[PAUZA]] We're at point 2. We have completed the discussion and the statement on principles and decided to move on to the debate on members of the proposed electoral laws, one by the Council of Ministers, which we also received from Parliamentarian Mariofil Ljubić. Today's session should end with a debate on members of the Electoral Law, and in this context we will allow for a second session, which will be held directly to discuss and vote on the proposed amendments and then declare the full text of the BiH Election Law proposal. We're continuing the session. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4103	Mr. President, I'd like to read article 62 first. Any club of MPs has the right to request a break of up to 30 minutes for each appropriate point. I asked for a break to consult with my club members about the vote, because we had a vote, so you didn't respect it. Please, you're respecting it in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4104	I ask you, when the chairman takes the procedure to define the conclusion and statement of this House, then you cannot, simply that procedure violates and disrupts. You've had enough time before that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4105	I asked for a break before the vote. That's what I got first. I now have one concrete proposal, that this discussion would be constructive and that it would not waste 37 time just talking about, me and the party's club for BiH propose a debate on each chapter of the law in particular. Secondly, we propose that Mr. President limit the time discussion of each MP to five minutes, so that it does not, and I suggest that the president, after the call of one MP, be called immediately and the next to come and take the place, because we lose half a minute of coming and going back and also propose that the Constitutional and Legal Commission give its opinion to the next Parliament on all proposed and offered amendments. So, for the next session, the Constitutional-First Commission to give an opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4106	We haven't moved on to another reading yet, Mr. Banjac. We're voting to discuss members of the election law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4107	It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4108	It's not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4109	Please, gentlemen, the House will begin with the first reading, concerning the necessity and principles on which the bill is based, according to the Commission's report. The debate on members will begin if the House so decides, if the House does not so decide, the proposed law is considered rejected. So the law wasn't rejected, because it passed the first reading and entered the second reading. It's not there, it is. He wasn't rejected. That's what I'm saying. The law wasn't denied, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4110	That's not controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4111	So the law can no longer be denied. He enters amendments and reads.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4112	That's right, we're clear. Article 95 and Article 96 defines results, frames of first and second readings. In that sense, we explained.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4113	It's not a problem, I just wanted to say the law can't be rejected. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4114	The second reading consists of discussions and voting on the proposed amendments, following a series of members to which this applies, etc. Article 96. Here you are, we're discussing election law. First reading, we didn't say anything about first reading in full. That's right, of course. Here's a discussion of the members. Ambassador Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. In the first part of the session, we heard a lot of discussions, which were mostly focused on the principles of this law. I think that if 60% of the principles presented today by the respected professor Filipović, I think we could get to this legal project. I hope these proposed amendments and the amendments that will follow, in any case the text of this proposed law will be improved. I am taking this opportunity now to present one amendment to Article 2.14.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4116	We're only discussing members. So, the members of the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4117	I'll probably, then, Mr. President, have a chance to make an objection in the form of amendments to Article 2.14.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4118	I thank Ambassador Kulenović. Ambassador Osman Brka came forward before that. You're not. poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4119	Mr. Chairman, I think it would be good to clarify when it comes to these amendments, because it's obviously not clear to people, which and in what way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we stick to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to it. Secondly, Article 95 is now point 2. So the debate started on, if I was, I was a little late, so I apologize, if it was already voted that amendments could be made, which means that both laws are equal and none can be rejected. No one has been rejected, so only one can be rejected later in the plea, but I'll say it like this. I will analyse the amendments submitted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, where there are four amendments that have been accepted, when it comes to the Constitutional Commission, and the amendments are HDZ BiH. Of course, we welcome, because the amendments that have been accepted meet our demands and I hope that they will become an integral part of the text, in fact they have already become, that this is how they will vote when they vote on the law. However, I must warn of Amendment 10, which was delivered by the Constitutional Commission, which is, in fact, sorry. Amendment 10.Article 8.8 if you can find it. 39 Where the Constitutional Court of BiH says it can decide. I'm talking about articles, we're discussing articles. I'm discussing an article on the subject, and it's in the form of an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4120	When the secretary was making a cleanup, he made a mistake, he entered into this purest of the amendment... old, they don't enter. [[Speak from the scene]] Members are being introduced as proposed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and this brings you to a problem. You, right now, within 48 hours, if you have tabled amendments and which refute amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commissions. You didn't do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4121	We did. We're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4122	Well, if that's what you're arguing about when you come to the amendment. It can't be an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4123	It's an integral part of the law now. I wanted to warn you when it comes to this part of Article 8.8 where the BiH Constitutional Court says, it can decide that a BiH presidency member is temporarily incapable of acting in office. Me, we think it's this one, that this is unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has no authority to decide. In our amendment, it was the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that decided what we later contributed as amendments. When it comes to this part of the article, we have also tabled amendments. I don't know, it's impossible to discuss articles unless we talk about amendments to these articles.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4124	I'm sorry, please let's read Article 95 again. We've discussed it quite clearly. Under 2. At first, the members will start, if the home so decides, if the home does not decide, the proposed law is considered rejected. We are also discussing the members of the Electoral Law. Article 96. The second reading consists of a debate and a vote on the proposed amendments, following a series of members concerned. So, I'm folding clearly. We haven't moved on to a statement of discussion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4125	All right, if you can't, that should be requested in the second reading, the HDZ Representatives' Club stays with the amendments to the articles, so that I don't now list them, which we don't think are subdued, that's where we stay, when we are, then we'll discuss. The amendments have been renewed.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4126	On time. HDZ, the Croatian Democratic Community has put its amendments on time, since amendments to the Constitutional and First Commission remain with them, in that 40 context, during the second reading, we will discuss and declare the amendments, quite clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4127	Gentlemen, I ask that there be no confusion, we really want it most sincerely, here's the Commission's going to let me speak on behalf of the President of the Commission, it's about the next one. The debate on members now, what the Commission adopted is no longer an amendment, but an integral part of the text of the law. Now you can discuss not the amendment, but you're saying, I have an objection to the member and you're explaining why you disagree with that, and in the second reading, you're going to submit an amendment if you did it in time. So, you can discuss an individual member how his solution in that article that you dispute, about this final member, which is proposed in front of the Commission. What you're slowing him down for, what he's vague about, what he's unacceptable to you, and in that sense, there's now a discussion on the part of the members. That's quite clear. That's the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4128	It was therefore difficult to break down and make a sophisticated distinction – the line of distinction between principles, members and amendments, because members, it is difficult to objectively discuss members, without intervention on amendments, and in this context some things are clear, but the Rules of Procedure is nevertheless, by its inaccuracies. Here you are, Ambassador Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4129	Here I will briefly intervene, given that we are this consolidated text of the law, which, in relation to the amendments adopted by the Constitutional-First Commission, was difficult to cope with, but I don't think it's impossible to crack down on the articles that are not discussed and the amendments on them. If we look at this law, which was delivered today, then we can discuss it that way. If we look at that law that was previously on... amendments to the Constitutional Commission reports, then the principle must be different. For example, here it is in article 8.9 where I warned earlier, I find Article 8.9 ineffective, as it says the BiH Constitutional Court can decide that a member of the BiH presidency is temporarily unable to perform his duties. I don't think there's any constitutional basis here and that the counter-resistance of this in the framework of the Constitutional Court's jurisdiction isn't this about deciding whether or not it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4130	Who continues to report on the members of the electoral law of one and the other. Ambassador Šašivarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4131	I'll take the final position immediately, Article 2nd point 20.9th is the new position 2. Which is what the Commission adopted. Says a BiH citizen who uses a house or an apartment where he has no first ownership or housing rights, now, and an executive document of 41 competent judicial or judicial authorities on return from the house or apartment has been issued on the basis of no first vote in the place of residence until he leaves the property specified in the executive order and can register for elections, only in the municipality where he had his last residence according to the latest census in BiH. The Party for BiH Club, we've put an amendment to this, I'll just mention the amendment, I won't discuss it, because we don't agree with this one sentence here. This was issued initially by the competent judicial or administrative authority on the return of that house or apartment. And I'll explain that to one of the reasons. Here in particular, let's take in Banja Luka 16022 requests for return of apartments and the house was issued only 1,767 solutions, that's what I'm saying with 31.3. o.g. So this way, if we insist that a return solution be issued, we'll slow down the return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4132	I thank Ambassador Šašivarević. To inform you on the benches you also received a letter from the OHR, which apostrophes of the preferential vote, the thresholds of the election, the election of the secretary-general, the restrictive election options for the lawless users of the residential space, and, also, you received a letter from a political party that is not a parliamentary party, but for reasons of publicity and everything else, the parties of women in the context of their violations to the BiH Election Law. Ambassador Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4133	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, the SDA is indeed, trying to be constructive at all times and here we are today, when we discussed the principles, we have not even reported for the word, considering that we need to go to this second part as soon as possible. This second part, I'm just saying, two things, just because we want to be constructive and cooperative, we didn't even have a lot of amendments to the bill. We had two on the Constitutional Commission. One has been accepted, that is the amendment in Article 11 at point 10, and that is now an integral part of the proposal. I'm not going to talk about him, but I'm going to talk about this other guy that I filed again today, and that's in Article 20 at point 9. A new attitude 3 is added, which reads: “A person who has registered a stay in another municipality and uses real estate, i.e. an apartment to which a fugitive or displaced person has submitted a request for return, can register for elections only in the municipality in which he is resident according to the last census in BiH.” So far, paragraphs 3.4.5.6. and 7. there are paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Explanation. It's not long, because it's very clear. Amendment I clarifies that the person who uses the property or apartment... can register in return for elections only in the municipality in which he resides according to the latest census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This amendment equalises active and passive voting law. Also in Article 20, point 10. The law stipulates that persons who use other people's property cannot be candidates. It is also logical that voters who are displaced, who use other people's property or apartment, cannot vote in the municipality where they use other people's property or apartment. This amendment is in line with aneks vi of the General Peace Agreement. It encourages the implementation of Annex VII of the peace agreement as well as respect for property laws. 42 We thank you, and believe that you will understand our best intentions and best wishes for this law to be adopted, but under one minimum we will not be able to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4134	I'd like to thank Ambassador Brk. Who's next to the word? Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4135	I would briefly support this amendment, which my colleague, Brka, suggested. I think this amendment is the key to the refugee return issue. You know, if you allow 6 months of stay of persons living in other people's homes, in settlements across Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote, and this one provides that electoral right in this way, you've given away entire groups of displaced persons and refugees. These groups have no right to move. They don't have the right to stay in their property. I'm not talking about the right formal, but there's no freedom of movement for 100,000 people to choose the place of residence where his property is, where their apartments are. They have no such right, and they are completely disfigured. On the contrary, we give the right to the people who have inhabited the cities, the villages of the house, the apartments to vote in place in six months' time. And there will be an absolute change in the democratic structure and such a regulation we have ended the ethnic cleansing and completed the goals achieved in the war. I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4136	I thank Ambassador Emina Zaćiragić. Who's next to the word? Ambassador Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4137	I must point out that MP Šešivarević here has given one, it seems to me a reasonable proposal, which in a certain way would have this enormous matter that we now have in front of us, look, I have a whole set of amendments that I now need in a hurry to list, a proposal to vote on chapters. Look, there's a discussion coming out and it says Article 20th point 27itd. I would like you to put this proposal to the vote, so that in a certain way we can adopt it as a method of work, which would allow better and better quality monitoring of the complete material.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4138	After the application of Articles 94 and 95 and 96 of the first and second readings, we today declare our first reading. We have spoken of moving forward in terms of discussion on members, and in this context we are completing the discussion on this first part. The second reading results in consideration and adoption and voting on amendments. It's a very clear position. So it would not be constructive or instructive to go from chapter to chapter, because it does not make sense in the sense that there is no statement behind it on certain chapters of the Electoral Law that are before us today, because it is not premised and does not foresee the Rules of Procedure in the first reading to go to a statement on certain chapters of the Electoral Law. So business procedure 43 is quite clear, we are left with another plenary session in terms of a statement, i.e. a debate and a vote on amendments. In this context, the position of the House of Representatives is quite clear from the aspect of adoption and procedure and adoption of the Election Law. In that sense, we have finished much of the discussion, we are discussing members of the Election Law, their settings, accepting or rejecting individual members, or the corrections of individual members. Here you go. A fellow MP, Vukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4139	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask a few questions just as I said earlier under the impression of the choices behind us and under the impression of insufficient transparency. I don't think it's clear to me who's calling the election. Maybe it's clear to someone, but. Keep going. When will it be municipal, but when will it be general? As naive as I know it, these elections came before when they were general in progress, no one knew if it was for two or four years. The articles introduce that concept by an authorised municipal body. Whether it's given to someone to interpret to whom they answer or what they think. I'm standing by for an exclusive vote count on the spot, so that your voices go somewhere to check it out afterwards. Also, this main counting headquarters is a little questionable, because it was always questionable whether it was right or wrong, especially because of voices from abroad that traveled strangely and didn't know what it was, simply. Also, the Electoral Council would, in fact, have an Electoral Commission, but we have that constituency council or I don't know which, what should be, I think we should have the Electoral Commission on Re-degree to decide on complaints. Also the Constitutional Court, whether its functions should be taken by the Parliamentary Assembly. It's something Mr. Grabovac mentioned on that subject. For example, in some articles, it is very important, let's say, this article on the number of mandates as well as the borders of multi-member constituency units, as well as the number of compensatory mandates. At the moment, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina can influence this. I mean, that shouldn't happen without clearly a certain role of the House of Peoples. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4140	I thank Ambassador Vukić. Who's next to the word? If not, I'll be free to take a few words to say. Ladies and gentlemen, dear MPs, dear guests, we only need one objectively. We are trying to update from the SDP one dimension of the meaning of this Electoral Law, which is the dimension of the election of members of the Presidency, members of 8.1 and further, aware of the fact that the electoral law must be in agreement with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a stubborn fact and in this context no document in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is being brought cannot be in opposition or contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution is the highest document in the country. On the other hand, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its members, means Articles 2nd and 4th, practically accepts the constitutional and legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the application of the European Charter of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And says the act has the right of the championship in relation to all other legal acts of this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 44 Article 5 of that same constitution is contrary to this Article 2 and that is a fact. That's one big truth. Article 5 also defines, in this context, the same active and passive voting rights on the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina through preference means the entity way of selecting members of the presidency from one and another entity. Reflecting on these controversies and after consulting the Constitutional Court judges, opinions prevail that a country such as Bosnia and Herzegovina can define, by means of a document and by means of its Constitution, certain specific solutions directly related to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And compared to the European Charter of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And if that's true, our legal experts say, then the exit can be sought in the redefinition or reconstruction of members 8.1.,8.2. etc. By not being contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would mean a bid procedure on the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina where all citizens would vote for 2 candidates in the order of the bošnjački, hrvatski and Serbian people. Those running for 2 or 3 candidates in the second round of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be certified by the relevant candidates and, under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, would be executed normally from the territory of Republika Srpska, from the territory of the Federation, Bošnjak and Herzegovina and from the Hrvat of Republika Srpska and from the territory of the Serb nationality, and would be partially eliminated by this discrepancies of Article 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution with Article 5. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We think it would be one procedure that is not contrary to the Constitution and that could move certain contradictions that arise over the election of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Aware of the fact that it accumulates the process, that it complicates the electoral process and everything else that carries simply this kind of thinking. Thank you. Who's next to the word? poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4141	There's a bit of a mess here when it comes to that part. I think the Osman Brk amendment was on article 11.10 on the electoral threshold that's 3% here where it is. If election units remain, I don't know what purpose this election threshold will have, although I agree with it. If they remain electoral units, it won't make sense. He'll lose it. So you should see that part. I don't mind leaving that part. To the ducks, we're trying to stay. If election units remain, I don't think this 3% electoral threshold has any purpose. Second, in this law. It's my fault he's not the chairman of the Council of Ministers as a proposal. Is there someone to defend the laws, or that they will answer the Council of Ministers' law. A few questions. We see, a chapter of the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been regulated, only not including the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. We have on the other side of chapter 12. The Federation's parliament, where it is regulated, is the House of Representatives, and is not regulated by the House of Peoples and is regulated by Republika Srpska. If the House of Peoples is regulated at the level of the state, and the narrative of the Federation from which the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not regulated, I do not know what the meaning is now and what is the reason for leaving this out. I'd like an answer, or I'd like this section to be completed here exactly as it was until the resolution, to supplement the provisional election rules that were in '96 and '98. Before that, I would like an explanation why this part is not complemented here, i.e. the election of the president and vice president of the 45 Federation, as a choice of president and vice president of Republika Srpska, if everything has a constitutional basis. To this end, this Council of Ministers, or the Proposer, was in charge when he left out these essential chapters, which have a constitutional basis. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4142	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Would anyone like some of the Council of Ministers? Okay. Is anyone else answering the question about the election law members so we can give word to the Council of Ministers? No one's answering anymore. I suggest that the Council of Ministers who can answer this question. There's MP Mašović, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4143	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if I'm going to propose this in the form of an amendment or if it's any sort of mistake that the Proposer can correct during this session. In Article 4.5, it is said – a political party whose member is a member of the mandate in the same political party body submits a request, etc.itd. So here, I suppose it is a mistake and should stand – a political party whose candidate, because the whole law in all its members is talking about candidates of political parties, not political parties. So, the explanation is clear. It does not have to be a member of the political party to be run in front of the political party as a candidate. This takes away the possibility of prominent academics, businessmen, etc.itd. who are non-party people to be run in front of certain political parties as their candidates. According to this first one, in Article 2(2), this position 2 actually fell out in Article 4.5. He's becoming unnecessary. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4144	I thank Ambassador Mašović. Is anyone else answering for word? We're taking care of it. If no one is answering for a word, here I suggest that the Prime Minister Mr. Alijagić try to explain these questions to Ambassador Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4145	Gentlemen, we'll give you a later statement on these remarks, and I can only give you an explanation. You know there are certain chapters, only five chapters are left out. And we gave up the reasons why these chapters were left out. And a statement about what you said today will be made later.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4146	poslanik Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4147	I'm really sorry there's no one here to talk about the weight and importance of this law. And how important it is that someone responds and says that it is imagined, that is, how this situation is resolved. Since there is no one from the Council of Ministers competent, or who can answer, I have absolutely 46 no objections to the Law that is here in the procedure equal to Mr Ljubić. I believe that we can then move to debate Mr. Ljubić's law, because there is no one to defend the Council of Ministers' law. Both laws are equal in procedure. Therefore, if there is no one to give in this way in my enquiries the answer, which is why, I suggest we discuss a law where no one has any objections as far as I can see about Mr Ljubić's law. I'm really sorry. I don't know what to continue the discussion about, if there's no one to answer, to discuss chapters at all, and there's no answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4148	I thank Ambassador Grabovac. Is anyone else answering for a word by members of the Electoral Law of both the drafts and the (a) and (b) by the Council of Ministers and by Parliamentarian Mariofil Ljubić. There's no one else. Can we close the debate? We can point out the fact that we also discussed members within the framework of the first reading of the Electoral Law. We remain a member of the 96nd second reading, where we will only discuss amendments and vote on amendments, and possibly discuss it with certainty, is that way to adopt one of the electoral laws that were before us today in the parliamentary procedure. Is this how we can figure out this part of the agenda? Thank you. We can move to another, third item of the agenda – Add.3. Proposal for a law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina Article 105, without intervention, without amendments, without the possibility of changing the text. The law passed by the OHR on a temporary basis and in this context, however, I must give the possibility of how much he has to ask or suggest. Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Can we move to a statement on the law under point 3? Proposal for a law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can. Who's for please? Bosnia and Herzegovina flag law. Thank you. I'm from here. Does anyone mind? Is there anyone with any restraints? One abstention and two abstentions. I understand that with two abstentions, we passed the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I still don't think there's a need for an entity vote, because of the 36 MPs, it was just a abstention 2. In this context, we consider, or conclude, that the Law is under point 3. The draft law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted. I congratulate the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina on having its first flag adopted by its parliament. Thank you. Ad. 4. A draft law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina Is there anyone to answer for? There isn't. Who is to adopt Bosnia and Herzegovina's coat of arms law under item 4. Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you, no one's against it. Is anyone restrained? Two abstentions. So it's the same result. Of the 36 with 2 abstentions and 34 votes, I find the proposal for a law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina has also been adopted. 47 Ad 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you. Niko one's answering. Who is it to adopt this Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained. Two abstentions. The same result of 34 for 2 abstentions of 36 MPs present. I also find that the draft law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents legislation has also been adopted. Ad.6. Proposal for a law on the court of Bosnia and Herzegovina Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. Who is it to adopt this Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it. No one's against it. Who's restrained? 26 for 10 abstentions. We have an obligation to hold an entity vote. Who is it from Republika Srpska to pass this law? Who's in? From Republika Srpska - 2 votes. Who's in favor of the Federation's adoption of this law? We realize we didn't get the entity majority. From Republika Srpska, we only have two votes for that point, I find that the law at point 6. The proposal for a law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina court was not passed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Representatives. Ad. Seven. A bill on the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Border Service Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. Who is it to adopt this law? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Anybody got any abstentions? Two abstentions. So with 34 votes for and 2 abstentions, I find that the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Border Service has also been adopted. Ad.8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina Is anyone answering for a word? Who is it to adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. 48 Does anyone mind? There isn't. Who's restrained? With 26 votes for, 10 abstentions, we are obliged to hold an entity vote. Who is it that is from Republika Srpska's area for this law to be passed? - Two votes. Who is it that's from the Federation's area of adoption of this law? Thank you. However, we find that we did not get the ethnic majority and that we have 2 votes from the Republika Srpska area and in this context – 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina was not adopted by the House of Representatives. Ad.9. The bill on administrative fees and administrative fees does anyone have a say in it? He's not answering. Who is it to adopt this draft law on administrative fees and administrative fees? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. Who's restrained? Thank you. With 10 abstentions, 25 are required to conduct an entity vote. Who is from the Republika Srpska area for this law? Who's in? One. Who's in the Federation area for this law? Unfortunately, I find that this law did not receive an entity majority and that this law on administrative fees and administrative fees was not adopted by the House of Representatives. Ad.10. Bosnia and Herzegovina's draft law on administrative fees Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. Who is it to adopt this law on amendments to the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Who's restrained? abstentions - 10th, 25 votes in favour. It is necessary to hold an entity vote. Who is from the Republika Srpska area for this law? One. Who is from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina for this law? Thank you. I also find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not receive the necessary entity majority and was not adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Ad.11. Bill on Standardisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina Any discussions? There isn't. Who is it to adopt this standardisation law in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. Do you mind? 49 Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. 35 voted yes. Of the 35 MPs, we unanimously adopted the Standardisation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. 12. A bill on measurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina Is there a discussion? There isn't. Who is it to adopt the Law on Measurement? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? We also find that 36 MPs voted in favour, and this law on measurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been passed. Ad.13. Proposal for a law establishing the Institute of Standards and Measurement and Intellectual Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina Any objections or discussions on this point? There isn't. Who is it that this bill on the establishment of the Institute of Standards and Measurement and Intellectual Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina is adopted? Who's in? Thank you. I repeat the situation. Do you mind? The abstentions? Restraint one. With 35 for and 1 abstention, the Law establishing the Institute for Standards and Measurement and Intellectual Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted. Ad.14. Bill on units of measurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina Any discussions? There isn't. Who is it to adopt this bill on units of measurement in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? On a unanimous basis, 36 MPs voted to adopt the Law on Measurement Systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad. 15. Proposal for a law on accreditation in Bosnia and Herzegovina Does it have any discussions? There isn't. Who is it to adopt this bill on accreditation in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone abstentioned? We unanimously adopted the Law on Accreditation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad.16. The draft law establishing the Institute for Accreditation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has any discussions. There isn't. 50 Who is it to adopt this law on the establishment of an Accreditation Institute in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? - One of the 36 MPs 26 voted for 10 abstentions is an entity vote. Who is from Republika Srpska for this law? There's no one - one who's from the Federation area for this law? Thank you. However, it should be noted that, for reasons of the absence of the entity's majority, the draft law establishing the Institute for Accreditation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been adopted by the House of Representatives. Ad.17. Proposal for a law on the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Employment Office Does it have any discussions? No Who is it to adopt this draft law on the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Employment Service? Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone abstentioned? Detained 2. Of 36 abstentions 2. voted 34 for. We find that the draft law on the property of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Employment Service has also been adopted. Thank you for this high level of trust in the laws that have already been in front of this House of Representatives for the third time. It is expected that we will make efforts to bring these remaining five laws into line with the House of Peoples and adopt them as soon as possible in the parliamentary procedure. I know what the MP Banjac thinks, I know. I get it. Ad.18. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina First reading. You have the Law before you and the Commission's report. Who's answering for a word? I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. Can we put this bill to the vote? We can. Who is it that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is adopted? Who's in? Thank you. First reading. Of course. Do you mind? We have 3.4 versus 5. Thank you. Anybody got any abstentions? One abstention, two abstentions. Is there any need for an entity vote? Let's check it out anyway. 51 Who is therefore from Republika Srpska to adopt this law? Entire vote. Thank you. Who is it that's from the Federation's field of adoption of this law? Thank you. We find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the ministries, the first reading, was adopted by the House of Representatives. Ad.19. The draft law on free zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina The first reading also. I'm opening a debate on item 19. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. Can we state who it is to adopt the Law on Free Zones in Bosnia and Herzegovina? First reading, clear. Thank you. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4149	I only have one question of technical nature. Was there an amendment or didn't they arrive?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4150	The amendments were sent 02. 06. Right? There were no amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4151	There were no amendments. To be sure and to believe that it is not an accident for the transmission to the Commission that there has been no loss of amendments made by the MPs. Ad.20. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina is also the first reading. I'm opening a debate on this law amending the law. First reading. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. Who is it to adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? First reading. I'm sorry. There are amendments. Thank you. Who's against it, please? There's no one here. Who's restrained? Two abstentions. With 34 votes for and 2 abstentions, we can conclude that the first reading of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. 52 We move to giving consent to the ratification of three international agreements: a) Development Loan Agreement – Technical assistance project for the social sector between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association Does anyone report on this agreement? There's no one here. The Commission has accepted. Who's to accept this agreement on a development loan? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? I find that we unanimously adopted and ratified the first development loan agreement – Technical assistance project for the social sector between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association. b) points 21. Development credit agreement - social sector adjustment credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. Who is to adopt this agreement? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Who's restrained? There isn't. I also find that we unanimously adopted the Development Credit Agreement, which is intended to adapt to the social sector between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. c) The Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina, was held by the Finance and Budget Commission this morning. She gave a positive opinion. Is anyone answering for word on this agreement? Niko. Who is it to adopt this agreement? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone abstentioned? Thank you. I also find that we have ratified the Framework Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, which regulates the activities of the European Investment Bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ad.22. The selection of members of the House's committees, filling the seats, please. In front of the club, we're expecting a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4152	Instead of Mr lužanski, who is how we know he is suspended from the High Representative, there remain vacant seats in the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Administrative Commission. At its meeting, the HDZ representative club decided to appoint me Miro Grabovac – Titan on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and on the 53rd Administrative Commission of Mr Mariofil Ljubić. I suggest you accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4153	Any other suggestions? Bogićević. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4154	The SDP MPs' club is proposing to the Constitutional and Legal Commission for a vacant place to appoint Mrs Violeta Kamberović, because with 9 MPs in this House, the SDP MPs' Club has the right to at least 2 seats in the Constitutional and Legal Commission. In the schedule we adopted at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4155	I'm looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4156	You have a proper break, of course. Thank you. We're on point 22. We have two candidates for the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Miro Grabovac, MPs and co-worker of Violeta Kamberović, and for Administrative he is a gentleman, or co-chaired by Mariofil Ljubić. Any other suggestions? poslanik Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4157	Gentlemen, I'd just like to say this. The Administrative Commission and the Constitutional Commission. They were built and there it was, it was. So now change. If Mr. lužanski came out, that means automatically in his place we're putting our people in, from the HDZ Club. So I think that's the end of the act and that it's not a questionable material at all. Therefore, I would ask the members of this house to simply accept it as such and confirm it, if that is confirmed. Nothing else. We lose, we throw in ours, etc. And now we don't get into why Mr. lužanski left, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4158	Thank you. Who's next to the word? poslanik Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4159	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honored guests, I've only called to say a moment. I think we should be principled on this kind of thing. I belong to a club of MPs that, with a change alliance, makes up some sort of congregation majority here. However, we must respect and be principled. We know how to choose board members. This observation by Mr. Bogićević was supposed to be taboo. If he thinks they're another party, then he should've said he was looking for that place. Now at a moment this sensitive moment when HDZ MPs today returned only to this Assembly to actively participate in 54 of this Assembly's work, we, in this way, find it incorrect to take a place that belongs to this party is wrong. We believe that this place should be taken by a member of the HDZ that they will determine. It's correct, it's principled, and I think we should support it. The club I belong to supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4160	Is anyone else answering for word? Is no one answering for a word anymore? We have two candidates, it is democratic to declare both candidates in order to propose the first MP, Miro Grabovac, to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Who's to elect Miro Grabovac to the Constitutional and Legal Commission? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Let's check the entity majority. Who is from Republika Srpska to have MP Miro Grabovac elected to the Constitutional and Legal Commission? Thank you. Who is from the Federation's field to have MP Miro Grabovac elected to the Constitutional and Legal Commission? An entity majority was received from Federation 14, from Republika Srpska for 10 In the first vote there were 35 MPs, to vote 24, against 8, abstention 4. I konstatuj that Mr. Ambassador Miro Grabovac has been elected to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Congratulations and we have another candidate for the Administrative Commission that is Mr. Ambassador Mariofil Ljubić in charge. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? One abstention. We agree with one abstention that Mariofil Ljubić, co-chair of the House of Representatives, was elected to the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives. Thank you. Congratulations on your choice. Ad. 23. A report by the Human Rights Commission, the immigration of refugees and asylum on a number of municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, President of the Commission, Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4161	The Honorable Presidency, honored guests, respected colleagues, MPs, our commission carried out two visits under its work programme, in fact two teams made two visits. One team was in the area of Podrinja, Gorazde and Mostar, and the other team was in the area of Bosnia Gradiška and Drvara. We adopted the report together on the Commission this morning. We unanimously adopted him the way he is here. Since you got it on the bench, I really have no intention of reading it for the entire 55th time, but I would still read our suggestions and suggestions from these visits summed up in the next. 1. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliament and the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina are obliged to create an equal environment and conditions at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina for all citizens and peoples in the sphere of return. We ask the International Community to stand behind the project to ensure that this state is a guarantee of the rights of citizens, not government and other humanitarian organisations to be only able to help citizens get their rights first. 2. The Council of Ministers should have a priority to find a suitable solution with the state of Croatia for Croatian citizens living in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. 3. Double users of residential space and property under various kinds of conditions should be evicted without delay from other persons' dwellings and houses in accordance with the legal provisions and in the mutual co-operation of competent authorities. 4. The state needs to step up its activities in order to provide the building and installation material as quickly as possible for the rapid training of the devastated assets of the returnees in order to ensure their life's conditions as quickly as possible. 5. In tent settlements and collective accommodations provide humanitarian aid in food and hygiene. Six. It is necessary to launch an initiative to regulate healthcare at the level of the State, e.g. that an MP from Gorazd could be treated in Foca, and preferably other areas of life that are of interest to all citizens. And something else forward in the text when it comes to Gradišca, to mention, there's one error where the digits have been replaced. It is mentioned by 4500 people from the Republic of Croatia and 3500 people from Lower Vakuf. It's supposed to be the other way around. You know. 3500 is the Republic of Croatia and 4500 from Lower Vakuf. It's basically what's here by mistake, maybe by my failure of that number replaced. There, I have had so many statements and I would like Parliament to declare these proposals and finally adopt them in a certain way, not just the Commission, which was certainly unanimous this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4162	I thank the President of the Commission. Ambassador Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4163	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I was in a group that visited Gradiška and Drava. I'd just like to say briefly one of my observations. As far as Gradiška is concerned, there is a basic problem of 3500 Srbin from Croatia. And another problem is 4500 Srbin who are from Lower Wacouf. So if you solve the problem of those two groups of people, it would be about Gradiška, so let me say there's a Malta not 56 in a large part solved question of return. It means return to the Lower Vakuf and return of Srbin to Croatia. I don't think there's a word in the report here, but I think there's a special problem in there. There's just one part of the municipality, one part of the Drava municipality isn't in any canton. So neither canton 1 nor canton 10. If it's made up, I don't know, it's just nobody's land and nobody's land is doing what they want. Another problem, it may not be sufficiently expressed in this report is that there really is no electricity, and even in the city there is no electricity. What's in the conclusion, I don't think Mr. brkati, I don't think we're exactly this guy this morning agreed, as you said. It should have been in the conclusion and said, about those people, too, to help those people who want to stay. I think this morning was the conclusion of those who were on the Commission, and I think you should have brought that up, too. So about this conclusion number one and the conclusion number four. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4164	I thank Ambassador Jovanović. The President of the Commission again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4165	It's true what Mr. Miloš said that we talked about this attitude, but we did, but I'm going to read this first attitude one more time, which is why I thought it was covered, and that's why I came out to say this. Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina are obliged to create an equal environment and conditions for all citizens and peoples in the sphere of return. I am saddening the international community to stand behind the project to ensure that this country is a guarantee of the rights of citizens, and that NGOs and other humanitarian organisations are only in the position of citizens to get their rights first. This is what Mr. Miloš said. To bring to an equal position returnees, but also those who wish to exercise their other rights, and for them this country should also be concerned. This is the purpose of this conclusion here and the proposal for all citizens to be brought into an equal position in this context.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4166	I thank the president. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4167	Dear gentlemen, I support the proposal for a conclusion with amendments that should be brought into line with both the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Law on Refugee and Displaced Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this direction, I ask that point 1 in the first sentence not be put to the point, but be put to the point and add the words of just compensation and replacement. Because it's a Dayton category and it's supposed to be treated equally. Explanation. We have a large number of people, and I will say only in areas, as it is further called, Glamoč, we seem to have over 6-7 villages that can't reach their property gentlemen, and therefore I'm really surprised that the Human Rights Commission has forgotten about these people and many others who can't absolutely reach their property. And they have to get a fair fee, and we have 57 people who have entered a legitimate replacement and now they're being manipulated and it needs to be dealt with in an adequate way. That's why I'm proposing in point 4. So in point 1 after the word return, add a comma and place fair compensations and replacements, and in point 4 at the end also text, add the following text – and step up activities about fair compensation and replacements realized under mutual will and legislation. We gentlemen have such cases, don't let me give you names, I don't want to protect anyone here, but I want to give, to someone who shouldn't be protected, but to give protection to those who need protection. The rest of the text I support, absolutely. I ask the Commission to declare these amendments to me, because otherwise I have to determine myself according to the text and I hope that the Commission understands what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4168	When the Commission proposed a agenda item, the Commission said the report, with no conclusions. And in this context, surely the conclusions introduce a new dimension of the debate of the amendments and everything else to be expected from the House of Representatives. It means whether or not the President of the Commission has a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4169	Look, I thought our visits and our report had no purpose, if there was no sign after that. I thought there should be a sequence of events, because our visit should be useful and for the purpose of...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4170	Then we should have postponed for the next session of the House of Representatives. Here you go. poslanik Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4171	Since I'm a member of the Commission, I wanted to say it myself. We just put observations on these two points this morning, which Mr. Banjac said about now. Mr. Brka promised to explain it orally. In fact, we said about his interpretation, the sphere of return involves complex problems. It means everything about the problems of refugees and displaced people. So there's both a return and a survival that includes a replacement or a fair compensation. Perhaps, I too insisted that it be listed. Is it not clear to me, and I don't mean it, if someone doesn't explain it to me in such a way as Mr. Brka did that notion of coming back, the sphere of return implies everything I've said. I don't think it should be controversial to add in some way what we've said, to make that point 1 a little bit clear, and point 4, as well as to help, that's a priority. I told people who had to leave their homes because of the facts of war - return. And in order for this to be realised efficiently and as quickly as possible, it must be helped to help those who want to stay where they live. Because the Dayton Agreement, Annex VII, allows both return and stay and sell and fair compensation of property. Therefore, whether to formulate as Mr. Banjac or in some way means that this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina must also take care of that group of people. So what 58 decided to stay is that it's clear that they can't stay in other people's houses in other people's property, but they too have to be helped by allowing the exchange of property, fair compensation, or through the award of wages or otherwise. Technically, how they're going to get rid of it, too, is that they're definitely going to start solving their own housing issue as soon as possible. I don't think that should be too controversial to add -- these two points and then adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4172	I thank Ambassador Stokić. The President of the Commission again.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4173	I didn't do it this morning, I didn't question today. I just said that in an explanation, and now by consulting the members of the Commission, we accept that this is added to the conclusion of the 4th and I think it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4174	Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4175	I was one of the members, as you can see from this report the Commission was in the field. I want to make a point of what our president said. Our report gets to the point, at least that's the Commission's position, if it offers conclusions that will not be paperological conclusions that will end up in the table or on the table, but will trigger this Parliament and the responsible people and ministries dealing with this problem to do more in the field for this category of people. Gentlemen Serbian MPs may forgive me for calling it this, I don't know all the names that have appeared, of course, that it is indisputable for people to have the right to stay, but it is also indisputable that people stay for 5 years but in other people's property. It is also indisputable that the return of people will be possible only if the usurpation of other people's property ceases. So no one argues to add to this report and conclusion – a fair compensation. It's a legal category, but it's about the right to survive in the areas where it chooses to live it's a completely undeniable right. I have to say to back up with what we were talking about. You don't have that information here, but it's completely true. On my inquiry, how many Bošnjak have returned to the city of Visegrad? The main man, the president of the municipality or, I guess, the president of the municipality, answered me five. With a letter and a number five. It's your condition of return to those premises. People who have returned to the surrounding settlements live in impossible conditions. In impossible conditions. They also live in impossible conditions and Serbian displaced persons in barracks from the Visegrad Hydropower Plant. In rooms 3 with 3 from 6 to 8 members. It is also a problem that, of course, the authorities of that space see only one way that they can solve because they do not have their own resources, they have asked us in fact to urinate about possible donations to help the international community and help the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina solve the problem of people who want to stay in Visegrad. And that's their undeniable right. These people who live in barracks live in impossible conditions. But those who live in other people's property, there's no excuse to obstruct the return of people who want to return to their own. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4176	Thank you, Ambassador Cuplov. Ambassador Kulenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I went out for this pay phone to hold this report, but only for this. So, because this commission really went into a job that I think is Sisif's job, but it's good to feel the work of this commission on the ground already. However, here one objective question is asked how and how do you help these people and how do you practically implement these conclusions in practice? I am still standing at that point of view, which I said at one of our previous sessions that would be necessary as soon as possible to design a project at the level of the Council of Ministers as well as how to help people more specifically. Here, we know there's construction material and everything. I also know that, unfortunately, there are fewer donors in the field today than there were before, and that process has not gone so far. The simple question is how and how to help people who receive construction material, and they do not have the means, for example. To pay the masters and provide them with those basic conditions for accommodation? That's one thing. It's another thing. How and how do people start an economy and live there on their own hearths from their own work? Certainly, we are aware of the fact that this is a very complex and difficult problem, but I think that, with the help of this commission and all of us, we should work as soon as possible to create, to provide some kind of funds and some kind of fund at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to make the process live and even better. Certainly on the ground I know well some areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina, from 95th to 2000, the property was devastated far more than expected and a practical question arises – who will compensate those people who were unable to use their property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4178	I thank Ambassador Kulenović. Ambassador Violeta Kamberović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4179	Ladies and gentlemen, since I am a member of the Human Rights Commission and I was directly on the ground in the Bosnian City and Dravar, I would just like to add one more thing. The town of Drvar is in a very difficult situation and I know that such cities are very much in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I would like to stress that they have been addressing the Federal Ministry for assistance, and this assistance consists of, they are asking for humanitarian assistance to fill the budget, and any other possible assistance. That's why it wouldn't be bad for us to influence the ministry to help them. On purpose, I don't want to say what citizens are, which nationalities, because I think there's only one person behind each of those numbers. Thank you so much. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4180	I thank MP Violeta Kamberović and MP Bahrija Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4181	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I am also one of the members of the Commission who has visited only one part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's terrain. There are probably such and similar, even worse situations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That the situation is alarming tells us that in collective accommodation we have people who spend an equal of eight years. From 93 to today. We also have from 95 to today in collective accommodations. No one can convince me that the problem couldn't be solved by now. I'll just illustrate a few details. Only one cigarette not smoked in Bosnia and Herzegovina could solve one of the collective accommodations from these days to today. We are a country where we have conditions starting with building materials, cements, bricks, bricks, balvana, and we can in such a simple way, with so few funds invested, solve these accommodations of people living in collective and extreme unconditional situations. I ask you for further efforts to plot the elemental task of finally resolving the question of collective accommodation and everyone else. That's why there are solutions. And another one. It's embarrassing and ugly to see on TV when construction material arrives and we see old people over 60 years old unloading bricks, bricks, logs and not saying anything else. So we have to worry, because that's where the old people and the kids stay. The working-age population is small, and those who stay for 8 years are thinking, if this continues to be a collective eviction from this country. I think everything's been said with this, and I warn that this is only part of the terrain that the Commission has visited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4182	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Ambassador Šarganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4183	I think this commission deserves complete commendation. They went out in the field. The other commissions should go on the ground, but not just Parliament, but the ministries should finally go on the ground and listen, following what we are talking about are operating on the spot as they can. But what would I suggest? At the next assembly, which should be before 22.6., because we have to adopt this law, we have now received a recommendation, that there be one item of the aneks vi agenda - either the return of refugees or human rights and freedoms, or what this commission has been doing, and that by then on the ground we can still record what is going on. I answered for the simple reason that I was in Drava a dozen times, in Grahovo too, in Livno, etc. He's got a lot of problems. I suggest that we specifically come from the environments from which we personally help one or two families from the minority section and say that it is that and that family. And that responsible executives, officials of the municipality, cantons, entities, personally go to the most endangered people and hand in their help and prove that they are interested in helping these people. I think we'll go with the recommendation then... 61
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4184	He thanks Ambassador Šerganović. Is anyone else answering for word? The MP, the chairman of Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4185	Dear President, honourable MPs, I think it's good that the Commission is going around the field, talking to the Jews in the local environment and with officials in the authorities, because they certainly escaped and displaced. It's one of the most sensitive, one of the hardest categories. Here you can see that the question of going back through all the laws is being broken by Aneks vii.. I think that, regardless of these conclusions, it is also necessary to ask the Council of Ministers once again, that a comprehensive report on the situation of refugees and displaced with a proposal for measures which will also follow measures and means financial effects is prepared through their means. Simply if we just bring a variety of recommendations, tips, they're nothing, they're as good as moral support, but trust me to say myself moral support to those people on the ground doesn't help much. Wherever we come people ask what can be helped. It's nice to come, visit, but I think that time is over. That's why I'm suggesting that perhaps in point one of these conclusions you should consider, so since there's... no election income. We know that most of these operations about funding the refugees and displaced, their return and the creation of a safe environment should be run by entities. So R.S. and the Federation of BiH. I think we should include the meaning of these state authorities and in collaboration with the entity authorities, because there is also the financial power in entities, the power needed means that these projects are being realised. Now you might want to think this word the same. I'm more so to combine with other words with a favourable or safe environment. Because the same can be used differently. I'm more of a one, that's a favourable environment for returning refugees and displaced. If it's the same, it means it's even. If it's bad in one place, it's bad in another place, or it's good in one place. I am to say a favourable and secure environment for the smooth return of the refugees and displaced. But he would certainly try and include it in cooperation with entity governments, because I say in entity governments is both financial power and certainly, most importantly, it's elemental security as a presumption of return is in this local environment. Because if we do not have that local environment, the municipality or the local community that security, nothing means the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH or the Council of Ministers. We're far away. And that's where people should live. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4186	I would like to thank President Ljubić. If there's no one else. poslanik Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4187	I would, indeed, support the Commission's report and I think that the Commission has done well in the spirit of what it is intended to do under its jurisdiction. 62 Nadelj, too, what Mr. Mariofil Ljubić was saying. We also discussed the report at one of the previous meetings, and how much we will always consider the reports, not giving appropriate tasks, I fear we will not get far. I would personally support these initiatives, which MP Salih Kulenović said, that we should try to find some solutions. We are declaring that everyone should return to their own, etc. And to compete with how many times they're going to repeat it, I don't think we're going to make it, because until we see real problems on the ground. I'd ask the Commission after she went to make another trip, so she'll see for example. that you don't need to make animosity. I get the feeling that a little bit everyone's looking for other than coming back, and those other options under the Dayton Agreement. Right now, these others sew it up like it's not for a comeback. I'd like to ask you to look around, for example. Many areas that are totally in this war, unfortunately, destroyed. Where people really don't have a place to go back and don't think like that when I say this they want to hide the people who are in this other person's property. You already have a large category of people coming out of other people's property, and they have nowhere to go back. So why don't we protect that category of people. Believe me, they're the biggest now, in the most trouble these people are in. In the greatest possible trouble. Although they don't allow that possibility to be helped, and if we're not going to protect them in that category, then we're not doing well. So in that sense, I just wanted to intervene. Because I'd be very specific if we were really in charge. We have the Minister's advice, if the Ministry is in charge. The Commission has done its job, it has gone on the ground, but that these people are doing something, that they form a specific programme to realize Annex VII or to return to their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4188	I thank Ambassador Mijatović. I would also visit you and my colleague, Mijatović, did so if at the 3rd or 4th session, we had the agenda back, that we had an analysis by the Council of Ministers and that it had raped a series of conclusions from the House of Representatives sent to the Council of Ministers. One of these conclusions was that we urgently expect a full return project in Bosnia and Herzegovina's entire areas with financial engineering and with the role of simply UNHCR and others who are simply participants in return to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the realisation of Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement. It means reminding the Council of Ministers once again that we are urgently expecting a full document from the Ministry and the Council of Ministers in terms of simply coming to Parliament and considering Parliament and considering the overall situation in the area of realisation, namely the implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement. Ambassador Adem Borić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4189	I wanted to say exactly what the chairman has now found. Mr. Zubak, as minister, accepted information from the former Council of Ministers and he was disabled because that information was made by the end of 2000 and he promised at the end of May one full piece of information that would be adopted after the analysis and that would be a major shift in the return of all of his houses. Therefore, I would like to simply respect the minister's decision and ask for that information, and the Commission for Human Rights of this Parliament should be a partner to the minister in the realization of this task. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4190	Thank you, Mr. Borić. Once again the President of the Commission and we end up with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4191	It's really very short. I think the Commission has done its job and will continue to work and report on this parliament. On the basis of our conclusions and views of this House, I think it is a normal and logical sequence of events for the Council of Ministers, or the Minister to take this material and work on it if asked for by this Parliament. Unfortunately, that co-operation isn't on the level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4192	I thank the President of the Commission. So we can take this discussion down on the proposal for conclusions. The Commission's report, the proposal for a conclusion, goes to the Council of Ministers, the resolution ministry. In front of us is the goal of adopting these six conclusions, with these supplements that no one has disputed. The representative of Banjac in paragraphs 1 and 4 respectively, or in Article 4. And it is not disputed under the Dayton Agreement, with my suggestion, of course we will remind ourselves of our conclusions and our obligation to get a full return project as soon as possible to the parliamentary procedure. Thanks for that. Who's in favor of adopting these six conclusions after these supplements. With these two supplements? Thank you. Do you mind? Opposite 1. The abstentions? Niko. We conclude that we have adopted the Information and the report on the visit and functioning of the Commission on Human Rights and also these 6 conclusions with these two additions in paragraph 1 and the position of 4 of the proposed conclusions, along with these suggestions that you... Thank you. Ad. 24. MPs' questions and answers. Here you go. poslanik Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4194	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I do not like indeterminateness, as I do not like words too strong, and you will allow me to correct in the form of a parliamentary issue something that is for me, I have seen from the talks with my fellow Members left unsettled in considering the proposal for the agenda, when we MPs from the SDA asked for a special point on the composition of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Parliamentary Assemblys and international institutions. 64 My question is therefore - Who is responsible for the violations of the Rules of Procedure on proportionality, a proportionate formula that should be reflected in delegations to reflect the overall composition of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? So I owe it to the explanation that it wouldn't remain unsaid that we were looking for today when I used the word fraud, I don't like strong words, but I thought the MPs here all knew what it was about and the president, so I'm obliged to explain this. I give you the reasons why we used that character. At the last, or last session of this assembly, after more than half a year of reasonable failure to put together delegations of our Assembly for the Council of Europe and other international parliamentary associations, it is agreed that we should choose, in fact, to resolve the disputed places. Among other things, the SDA, which with the SDP has the most MPs in both homes of this assembly, will be given a seat in the House of Peoples for the Council of Europe, and so we will vote here for representatives of the Council of Europe. And we voted for the Council of Europe, however, something the participants of the agreement agreed to, is not respected at all, not only is it not respected, but it is not taken into account at all, so that an MP from the SDP has been elected in the Council of Europe from the House of Peoples, and the SDA, which has 10 MPs in both homes, has received in fact only one seat in this parliamentary union, which, of course, would not have agreed to me without that Council of Europe. They are not disputed places, so important to the Council of Europe and the rest. We have on several occasions, please warn that the Rules of Procedure specified the establishment of delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have personally appeared several times with, above all, the Council of Europe. Not that place to be obtained by the SDA MP, but the principles and objectives of the Council of Europe that have found their place. The Council of Europe was the reason to include in the Rules of Procedure this formula on proportionate representation, i.e. the party configuration of the Assembly, which should be reflected or shown in the selection of delegations. Let me remind you, please. The main objectives or first objective of the Council of Europe are to defend human rights and plural democracy. Second goal. Right away, out of the five objectives defined is the struggle to affirm tolerance. The principle of the Council of Europe is included in our Rules of Procedure and he has been cruelly violated here. In fact, he was baptized for six months because he did not want to respect the Rules of Procedure and to technically elect delegations. And in the end, when that didn't go away, here we were all involved in the agreement that an SDA MP would be elected to the Council of Europe from the House of Peoples. This did not happen, on the contrary, but not simply outvoted, were outvoted by these MPs from the SDA who called for an agreement from this, what is called, House of Representatives. I remind you of the literal mathematics of the SDA, as a party that has 10 MPs in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has 4 and a half seats in the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly. So in each delegation, there is a right to one place and there is a 1/2 place left to say it in literal mathematics. According to this, the SDA only received one seat in the interparliamentary union. This is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. These are harshly violated by the principles of the Council of Europe, which is not only broken but also by one political behaviour, which I do not want to characterise. Disavuated simply. And that disabling some of the elements of our participation in this work. We had a law today, election law as a condition of our admission to the Council of Europe. I personally listened, the discussion when we talked, we had a debate about first reading, about our interest in these values that inclusion in the Council of Europe will bring us. 65 Gentlemen, it is simply amazing and incomprehensible for me that we who are thus in favour of joining the Council of Europe and for these principles which the Council of Europe so hard determines in such an unserious way we are violating. So my question is - which college is responsible for violating the Rules of Procedure on the establishment of delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is it the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, or together both peoples of colleges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4195	I would like to thank Ambassador Neimarlija. poslanik Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4196	I'll ask three questions. First and simplest – Is the opening of the border crossing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia between the Serbs and Davor planned and opened? I'm asking to be answered in writing. The other two issues refer practically to the area I deal with – health care and the objective of these two issues is to launch two topics that can significantly improve the state of the health insurance funds of both entities. First of all, it is noted in health institutions that more and more citizens of other countries are very often and illegally staying in Bosnia and Herzegovina and do not have health insurance. Currently, only at the Clinical Center in the children's hospital do we have three such cases where there are also amounts for the treatment of several thousand marks and the bill simply has no one to refer to. I appeal and beg to be answered in writing, first of all, on the State Border Service and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Civil Affairs, together with the entity health ministers and the directors of the Health Insurance Funds, find a way to get rid of this. Here I will suggest something some countries apply to charge for this purpose when entering the country. And the second question is for workers who are detected to work in the Federal Republic of Germany from both entities from Bosnia and Herzegovina - Are the funds of Bosnia and Herzegovina being paid for health and pension insurance? If they're paid into what account and how are they shared? I'd like this to be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4197	Thank you. poslanik Lolić and Ambassador Boro Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4198	I want to publicly criticize the College. In line with the question I asked you in early May. It refers to events in Banja Luka and Trebinj at the 7th session, i.e. the 7th session. 66 - Again, I ask what the College has done in accordance with its obligation under Article 19a. Rules of Procedure? I didn't get your written report. You promised him at the 8th session and I won't repeat him. Publicly speaking, I will be persistent and will publicly continue to criticize you both in this room and in front of the press and wherever I am. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4199	I would like to thank Ambassador Whitebeard. Ambassador Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4200	Gentlemen, I have two questions. Our Commission for Human Rights and Refugees to Notify me and Examine the Case of Human Rights Infringement in Bihac by the Office of Spatial Planning, the Catastra Property and Legal Affairs. The number of that solution that violated the human right to property is 03/1-3-31-653 since 26.04.2001 and second, it is also a violation of human rights, and this time in Zenica. At the request of return of property number: 704900 since 9.3.1999. And on this occasion, I believe that our Commission for Human Rights, Immigration and Asylum should deal with concrete issues and help citizens. Here I am, on this occasion, referring to all those who believe that I can help them in this direction to address me, and I will do my utmost to forward it to the competent authorities and to take care of the fate of those issues and those solutions for which I take responsibility. Secondly, I am asking a question as an MP to the European Commission for Human Rights: – Is my right being violated and the right not to be a submission and the right to freedom of expression when I am ordered in this Parliament to adopt laws without the right to amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4201	I thank Mr. Banjac and the chairman, Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4202	Honorable MPs. Question to the Council of Ministers or a specific question to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: - What has the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees done or what is it up to now, if it is not to protect the fundamental human rights of 60 to 70 thousand small savings from the Herzegovina Bank whose savings stakes have been blocked needlessly, and what has it done to protect the rights of private shareholders of the Herzegovska Banka? - Also how does he intend to protect the rights of 300 workers of the Herzegova Bank and their right to work and what does he intend to do to protect the rights of 50,000 pension fund pensioners in Mostar whose assets amounting to one and a half months of property are blocked in bank accounts?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4203	I would like to thank President Ljubić. More Ambassador Šarganović. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4204	I did last time, esteeming our time and all the questions in writing, I didn't want to read, I didn't get an answer, so I have to repeat. The announcement of the suspension of customs duties in Bihaq, Izačić, was insulated there by businessmen and businesses and paradise and the people and everything else in order. Ask yourself a question to give me an answer – Is that information correct? To what extent is it accurate? What was the basis for such information? Is it gonna be realized or won't it be... What are the consequences of the economy there to produce? First question. The second question – How many total financial resources are collected on all grounds on that customs duty from 95 to 2001, perhaps by 2000, and how many on the other tariffs are parallel indicators, because it seems that customs which best works it should be stamped and the rest released? What my colleague Banjac was saying about this case in Bihac, I think it's about the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4205	Don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4206	I'm familiar with that, and we've started that activity so it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4207	The apostle Banjac has not asked you questions, and there is no reason to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4208	I know he didn't ask me a question, but whatever I'm trying to say, it's not good anywhere that any right is being threatened.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4209	I thank Ambassador Šarganović, and we still have an MP, Baković, and an MP from Bilbi, and an MP from Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4210	Gentlemen, I'd have to ask two questions. In fact, I often have material coming home from here not in Croatian, and it should be, because I am there to fill, by giving these information with what language I would like it to be. And I think we should take care of that, not here, here it's quick now, etc. Now I don't blame it. But when he comes home, I mean home, that should be it. And secondly, and believe me, I didn't plagiarize this from Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, but just as few would say something about this subject, it might deepen the case of the Herzegovina Bank. You saw it, or you heard what it was. I'm not even going to make any comments now whether it was, one way or another, what that means at all, but if we're 68, we're honest and generously morally, that we know what that means. And now I'm asking you a question, and I think Bosnia and Herzegovina as such, despite not being the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not the monarchy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I still consider a country that is competent in relation to both the Federation and the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is entirely the right that we, these MPs, have some authority or power to ask ourselves all things about how they stand in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore refer this question to both you and the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the end, if we will... – What about this bank? What about the shareholders? What about the property, the material goods? Is this ruined and what it means in the context of our wishes to be liberalization, to be a democracy, to be a form of governance, to be in European standards, to behave fine, by some code, etc. What does that mean? What are these privates, shareholders who have lost capital, or is it blocked, or pensioners who have not received a 150 KM there for two months or three? What does that mean now? Here's the thing, increte. I'm begging you, let's settle these things, or at least when we're stuck in public that it can't be that way, that something has to be solved. We're getting ready for Europe. It's all nice. And that walk of ours, too, but here's what's going on right now. And nobody, I've listened to MPs in the Federation, even in the House of Peoples, and I don't know, that's how it is, that's a normal thing. And it's not a normal thing. And it's not a normal thing. Even as a game, it's not a normal thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4211	I'm asking you a question. These are comments that go towards amortizing the case. Ambassador Bilbi. Okay. poslanik Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4212	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for the Ministerial Council's report on 100 days of his work. As far as I've been following in the means of informing the Council of Ministers is only boasting that he's put in the procedure Election Law. And to me, as far as I know, this law has long been written by the OHR before, and they have completed 2-3 members, and the entire machine of the Council of Ministers turns out to be nothing, what else she was doing. So I ask the question – What has the Council of Ministers done in the past 100 days to improve the standards of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? We are MPs here in front of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, citizens have chosen us and citizens are asking us what we are doing here. Are we just outwitting ourselves here or are we in a function of improving living standards and improving the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I've been listening, in their 100-day report, they don't look back at it at all, and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, workers of Bosnia and Herzegovina are at the border of patience, etc. They hire strikes, strike every day, etc. Therefore, I would ask that question to be answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4213	I thank Ambassador Kovačević. And finally, the Messenger of Bilbi
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4214	Here at the end of the session, I have no parliamentary questions, but I have one concrete proposal. Since the parliamentary questions and answers are at the end of the session, 69 I don't think that's good for the reason here, there seems to be only one member of the Council of Ministers present. I think it would be good to put into practice for the next sessions that parliamentary issues be the second item of the agenda behind the adoption of the minutes from the previous session, and that, since they are present at the beginning and members of the Council of Ministers and the means of information, often there are issues of life and vital interest. I think we can respect this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-06-06-0.u4215	We've been waiting for this proposal for a long time. Thank you. We'll transfer it and take care of it. Thank you for today's session of this 9th session when we did one big job. Sit down and finish work at 6:00.
