ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3488	Gentlemen, MPs and honored guests, I am opening the 5th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to members of the meeting, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representative of the European Union, Mrs Sonja Mozer - representative of the Council of Europe's Secretary-General, representative of the Observer mission to BiH, representatives of the US Embassy, Great Britain, Sweden and others, representatives of other international organisations in BiH. Representatives of public information funds have also been invited to monitor the work of this home. I warmly welcome all present on behalf of the House of Representatives and thank you for participating in the work of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At the same time, it should be noted that the session is attended by 33 MPs and that the session has a quorum for full decision-making. Also, the absence of the session was announced by fellow Members Mirko Banjac and Ivo Lozančić. Before moving to a debate on the agenda proposal, allow us to complete one previous issue, as regards giving a solemn statement by the new MPs and two deputy ministers. Namely, from the chairman of the Interim Election Commission of Ambassador Robert Beri, we were informed that he accepted the resignations of the gentlemen: Zlatko Lagumdžija and Muharem Imamović as MPs. In accordance with the Rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission, the following qualified candidates are on the SDP list for the House of Representatives: Boro Bjelobrk and Jozo Križanović. Also, Ambassador Beri informed that, according to High Representative Ivo Andrić-Lužanski-Lužanski's decision, he was removed from the duties of MPs in the House of Representatives, and that according to the rules and regulations, the Interim Election Commission found that Mr Marko Amidžić was the next qualified candidate on the HDZ list for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. 2 Before this, I must introduce you, you have received a letter from HDZ to the House of Representatives, that is, the House of Representatives. I wouldn't read the HNS decision, but I'd just like the last passport of this memo, which you got in front of you. From the pre-quoted conclusions, I quote: “Our party who participated in the adoption of these conclusions is also obliged to respect them (cannot accept a replacement for the legally elected representative in the Parliamentary House of BiH, the person Ivo Andrić-lužanski, to the solution of the overall political crisis, created primarily by the unconstitutional election rules of the Interim Election Commission”, with greetings and respect, Secretary General Perica Jurković. In that sense, I was obliged to introduce you to this memo. The memo does not oblige the House of Representatives. We accept the decisions of the High Representative, as legitimate and established in the BiH constitutional system, and in this context, the HDZ's reaction is groundless. I think we should welcome the new MPs to the House of Representatives, and I call on them to make a solemn statement in order to take over the parliamentary duty. Also, a solemn statement should be made by Mrs Gordana Ković, Deputy Minister for BiH Institutions and Mr Jadranko Prlić, Deputy Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, as they were absent from the previous House sessions, when other ministers and deputy ministers gave a solemn statement. So, I urge the new deputies and the deputy ministers to join in giving a solemn statement and I ask that we mark it by standing up. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. Respect the BiH Constitution. Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, protect and improve human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Sarajevo, 26.3.2001. I congratulate you all, welcome to the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also, gentlemen of the deputy ministers with great happiness and success in their work. Before the transition and discussion on the proposed agenda, I would like to inform you that the recent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the House of Representatives, was at the meeting of the president of the parliaments of the states that are participating in the pact, i.e. in Southeast Europe. [[Applause]] The delegation consisted of: Dr. Mirjanić, the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mrs. Mediha Filipović, MP at the House of Representatives and Mr. Vedran Hadžović is the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, one member of the delegation Mr. Ivo Lozančić could not be present. In that sense, I would ask, you will be given the translation of Mr Mirjanić's presentation during the session, but it would be good for Mr Mirjanić to meet in short lines the basic messages from the conference that was recently held in Skopje. Here you go, Doctor. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3491	No exposure is heard
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3492	College of the Parliamentary Assembly. Delegations have not been selected yet, the College has specified.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3493	Allow me, I would ask a little patience, it was a meeting at the level of the President of the Parliaments Conference of the South East European Co-operation Process. So, at the level of the president of parliaments, it is quite clear in that variant who can form that delegation. The meeting took place in Skopje on 20 March and 21 March. I'm the head of the delegation because it suits the Rules of Procedure. So, the Conference of Parliament Speakers, and as vice-president, submitted a report on Parliament's position, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you will receive that speech during the session. During the sittings, gentlemen, you will also receive a translation of the Declaration adopted at that summit. The declaration was of course adopted by all participants and there was nothing controversial there, it fully fits Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. We've had meetings there with all delegations, conference participants. We were a delegation who, therefore, had a meeting with all other delegations and we agreed on concrete co-operation, according to an agreement at the College of the House of Representatives, you will be informed. So you're going to get the right documents. If there are questions after these documents, the delegation, the present me as the head of the delegation, are ready to respond to the questions asked during today or tomorrow's session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3494	Thank you, Mr Mirjanić. We can also move on. I am obliged to remind you that a session of the Colleges in the extended composition was held at the reception of the two sessions, Monday and Tuesday 26 and 27 March, as well as the draft agenda you received in the invitation. I must also conclude that this session of the extended College was not attended by a member of Mr. Mariofil Ljubić's College as well as by the president of the HDZ's Club of Representatives. The materials for all the proposed items of the agenda have been obtained, except for the 16th point selection of members of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On this point, this morning we held a joint session of the Colleges of both homes, which are obliged to prepare a proposal for both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of 4 BiH, normally, with the agreement of the Members' clubs operating in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this sense we failed to complete this proposal by the end this morning, so that the College proposes that this point 16 simply be moved for the morning session, when the proposal for both homes for the assembly of parliamentary delegations will be agreed. As you know in the delegations, MPs from both homes and the House of Representatives and delegates from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina should participate. I also ask for the degree of tolerance, given the materials you have received, the 15th Point Report on the Implementation of Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina is also foreseen. Given that the Council of Ministers has provided information in the old composition, which has not been objectively updated in the past two months, the opinion, i.e. the Council of Ministers' Ministry, is necessary for a full information on this issue, so that the degree of tolerance is sought, that this point 15 is proposed for implementation in the morning agenda, the proposal is, from the proposed agenda, to implement points 15 and 16 within the morning session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a discussion on the agenda proposal. Here you go. The Council of Ministers also suggested and insisted that we put the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's central institutions for this morning's session on the agenda of the Budget Implementation Act in the course of 2000. The motions for the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Commission for Finance and Budget of the House of Representatives have given its opinion, as well as the Commission for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and in this context I only announce that tomorrow we will have a proposal to supplement the agenda on the Budget Proposal, given that this is characterised by the Council of Ministers, too, as one of the priorities in the sense that the decision takes place there by the end of March of this year 2000 and in this context, it is necessary or to extend the fact of the decision, i.e. to adopt the draft budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for the next, i.e. the current 2001 year, which means that it is only an announcement that such a context, with which it is necessary and possible to continue to intervene with the amendments. The Commission has examined this and certain commissions have amendments. The Commission for Finance and Budget should agree on this until tomorrow's session and in this context, that we prepare in full this point which is objectively important and essential for the functioning and central institutions of the BiH government, and in particular the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina from both homes which are fully operational and which have completed their concept of constitution. Here, so I'm opening the discussion once again on the proposed agenda, no points, with a proposal not to implement points 15 and 16. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go. A fellow Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3495	Madam Chairman, gentlemen ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests have no objections to the agenda, but I have some technical remarks on this agenda. As far as these very points of the agenda are concerned, I think this is a little gross and it's not right for me to put, for example, the 6th point of the agenda of the Civil Law Convention against Corruption. No consent is given, ratification is given, decision taken or conclusion taken. There's that in the agenda points, but in the agenda itself, so it exists in the material, but it should be agreed to be the same in the material and in the agenda proposal when we get it, to make it a little more serious. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3496	kolega Spasojević, I think this may be accepted by this suggestion. Here you go, colleague Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3497	Dear Presidency, I have no objections to today's agenda, but I have objections, to say, to supplement the agenda for tomorrow. But if we're supposed to discuss the budget and the implementation of the budget, I think we should get the materials today so tomorrow we can, the fact that we got it, but we didn't take it with us, because we didn't know it was going to be on tomorrow's agenda. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3498	I don't think there should be any technical interference for this to happen. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3499	I'm more of a president-in-chief-of-the-Committee from a technical point of view. You are now suggesting that we could discuss the enlargement of the agenda tomorrow and the absolute commission is ready, but you are also suggesting that there are amendments. I'd have to make an appointment today before the session if we had an opinion on the amendments. Is it possible by the Rules of Procedure that we are now running that tomorrow will be on the agenda so that we can do these preparations in quality, to hold commissions tonight or tomorrow morning, because you have indicated that there is an amendment to which the commission should be set. So if we don't do anything now, we'd practically have to take a break and then sit down as a commission and make amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3500	Absolutely, the aim of my intervention was to objectively determine the commission according to the amendment submitted to the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3501	So, the previous question. Are we on the agenda or aren't we on the agenda tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3502	She's expected to be on the agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3503	Well, she's expected, then there'll be a commission. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3504	That's right. Mr. Borić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3505	Gentlemen Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, honourable MPs, the SDA Members' Club accepts the agenda set out in the meeting, as well as this amendment. We appreciate that point 15 really deserves to be treated as a special question and as a first question, therefore, a question of all questions and, therefore, we accept absolutely this amendment and the addition of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3506	Thank you, Mr. Boruć. Is anyone else answering for word? Thank you. Deputy Minister of the trezor gospodin Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3507	poštovati think it is a good idea that the College has launched an initiative to put the Budget and the Law on the agenda of tomorrow's session, and I would ask that we strengthen ourselves in that definition and take all of us as an obligation to honour these deadlines that we have set with the proposing's willingness to make direct communication with the Finance Commission and Budget to carry out final preparations for, to say, quality debate and decision-making. I'm asking you to set yourself up. I suggest we make a commitment that tomorrow we will all prepare together for the normal decision of the House of Representatives. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3508	Thank you, Deputy Minister Mr. Imamović. Is anyone else answering for a word? He's not answering. I am reading the draft agenda for today's 5th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Representatives; 2nd The development loan agreement of the Mostar Water Supply and sewerage project between BiH and the International Development Association; 3. BiH-European Investment Bank Funding Treaty No 20515 BiH Roads Project; 4. Framework loan agreement between the Council of Europe and BiH Development Bank for the Tuzla Water Supply Project; 5. Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the financial assistance of the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of Ministers; 6. Civil law Convention against Corruption; 7. A Criminal and Legal Convention Against Corruption; 8 / 8 Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of certain types of classical weapons which may be considered to be the cause of excessive traumatic effects or have a non-selective effect; 9. Convention on International Labour Organization No. 182 on the Worst Forms of Children's Work; 7 10. An agreement to unarpede the protection of investments between BiH and the Republika Srpska government, the Republic of Finland, I apologize 11. Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments between BiH and Sweden; 12. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Federal Council of Switzerland on the readmission of BiH citizens and citizens of Switzerland; 13. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on international road transport of passengers and goods; 14. Information on issues related to Balkan syndrome; and 15. Answer MPs' questions and questions. Please, let's be clear who's in favour, to accept this agenda for today's 5th. A union of the House of Representatives? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is anyone restrained? I find that we unanimously adopted the proposed agenda. In that sense, I find there are 36 MPs present, voted 36, which means there is no need for an entity vote, in that sense I find that the agenda, which I have read, was adopted by the 5th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd and minutes from the 4th session of the House of Representatives, please welcome the opening of the discussion. Does he have any objections to the records? Here you go. Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have no objections to the minutes, but on behalf of the mixed PDP SNSD DDSP and SPRS Club, we are asking to be delivered in writing Mr Matić Božidar's speech from the 4th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, because we did not receive Mr Matić's political programme, and there is no discussion of Mr Matić's questions and objections during the debate on the programme of the Council of Ministers' work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3511	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have one remark that is more technical in nature, namely, the discussion of MP Branislav Lolić has caused, says several replicas, and it does not say in which direction he has discussed, whether it is an affirmative or something that has been bad for the other MPs, I would like it to be 8, and it seems to me that he has told me that two findings that do not go in favour of this home and that I would refer to the discussion of my colleague Bilbija, I think that after a month and more days, a month and a dozen days it is embarrassing that we do not have, that journalists are asking me that we do not have the exposés of our prime minister, and I will continue to raise the question of the amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedures, and it is a matter of vote. Here in the record on the page, I don't know either, there's a finding that the MPs of the SDS didn't declare themselves. That doesn't stand in the Rules of Procedure. It has to vote or not to vote, and I don't know, in this writing here, I don't know what the quorum was calling this parliament, where we decided on Prime Minister Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3512	Thank you, Ambassador Malkić. Does anyone else have any objections to the agenda, or to the minutes of the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Representatives, MP Gligorić?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3513	Mr. Chairman, Deputy, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Ministers and Deputys, dear guests, for the minutes of the 4th session, in accordance with Article 60(2). Rules of Procedure, I would like to show as well as the predecessors that Mr. Matić's discussion, which was also an integral part of the programme, is what we didn't get. It should certainly be, because he pointed out himself, after answering parliamentary questions that it would be an addition to his programme. I'd like it to fit in too so we can have that supplement in the program. At the same time, I believe that it is not correct either because of the chairman, Mr Matić, because here in the report he said the MPs had discussed, that they had asked certain questions here, and on page 6th and 6 just said that Mr Matić had given, answered the question and the objections raised in the discussion which the chair of Matić and did and, at the same time, gave the necessary answers to some of the questions and now we have the situation that for the MPs very correctly highlighted what they were asking, what comments and suggestions they made, and at the same time there is nothing that Mr Matic answered. I think it would be correct and because of him that, on that side, the record, in technical terms and, of course, essentially, emphasizes it. This is what I want to say for the reasons that I believe that the dignity of the MPs and this House should be respected and that, as space and MPs are given enough, I should also answer the parliamentary questions, so to speak, also clearly in the record, because it is clear to all of us that this is the document that remains for history.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3514	Thank you, Ambassador Gligorić. If no one answers, colleague Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3515	The Honorable presidency of ladies and gentlemen, I only have one small replica, an intervention on Mr. Malkić's discussion. When there was a vote on Mr. Raguž, so SDS MPs' club dad didn't vote, with a known explanation that we said it was against constitutional because it wasn't established by the House of Peoples. When there was a vote on Mr. Matić, we were abstentioned, so that's when we voted. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3516	Thank you to Ambassador Jovanović, now MP Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3517	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I will be very brief, one technical intervention, and in principle refers to consistency in recording the present and absent from the session. Namely, in all the records there were representatives of certain embassies, one number of ministers, one number of deputies, no one will be able to know alive today who was here and who wasn't. I ask that exactly by name and last name be determined who attends the session. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3518	Thank Ambassador Đedović. Is there anyone else calling for word? I believe that all these initiatives, suggestions and remarks can be adopted objectively by me on behalf of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives and, on behalf of the College, I can promise you that these failures will no longer occur in this context in full precision, respect precise allegations and simply in full procedure of conducting the sessions from presence to simple conclusions, etc. So, we also accept the obligation by the chairman of the Council of Ministers to authorise its presentation and to deliver the MPs urgently, on the one hand, that is also a broader explanation of the issues and responses of the Council of Ministers to the discussion on the fundamental objectives of the Council of Ministers' work and functioning over the next two years. Deputy Minister of the Trezor asked for a word, Mr. Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3519	Dear MPs, I would just like to inform you that Mr Matić's exposé was completed twenty days ago and that a joint session of the Presidency of the Council with the kolegij is scheduled. Unfortunately, this session has not been held, and that may be one of the little reasons why you haven't been exposed today, in which, at least I think there is a part of the answer to the questions asked. I suggest we put in charge of the technical service to share those exposés during the session. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3520	With a college with an exposé and an exposé review having nothing to do with it. We are MPs of Parliament's House of Representatives, in that sense, absolutely, in these ten days, there was no need for any consent from the College in the sense that MPs would receive Mr Matić's presentation. We've made that clear. So we accept these suggestions that you made from the point of view of the objections to the record. Can we move to a vote on logs 3 and 4 together? Who's in favor of getting the records adopted? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is anyone detained by these two records? 10 Thank you. I understand that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Representatives. In that sense, 36 voted. Thank you. We can move Branka kolegica to agenda number two. A.2.Agreement on the Development Loan (The Mostar Water Supply and sewerage Project) between BiH and the International Development Association, the Financial and Budget Commission. Here you go, Mr. Belkić, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3521	I'm sorry, obviously for technical reasons you didn't get the report from the mentioned committee on agenda points, which go into the jurisdiction of this commission, I guess, technical problems. We had the Commission last Wednesday, but here I will try in the shortest possible way the Commission's views on certain materials to present. If you agree, Mr. Chairman, that I would not be going out at any moment, in the contents of our report, the views refer to point 2. Tačka 3.. Tačka 4 of point 5 of point 10 and point 11 of today's session. Points 2, 3.4 and 5 are cash arrangements, i.e. loans and points 10 and 11 are investment protection agreements. Generally, the Commission is expressing and, I would like to publicly say dissatisfaction over the absence of the proposings from either the Presidency or the resolution ministries, with the conclusion that the Treasury came somewhere in half the union when the debate on the budget was held. Point 2. We propose to the House of Representatives to decide on giving consent to the ratification of the Water Supply and Channel Project for Mostar between BiH and the International Development Association of $9 million and $100,000. Point 3. We also propose to the House of Representatives to decide on giving consent to ratification of the financing agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank, the BiH Roads Project. Its total is 60m euros, 40 Federations 20 RS. Point 4. We also propose to the House of Representatives to make a decision on granting consent to the ratification of the loan framework agreement between the Council of Europe and BiH Development Bank for a $1,500,000 water supply project for Tuzla. We also suggest that the House of Representatives agree to ratify, make a decision to give consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers on the granting of financial assistance from the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of Ministers of BiH, with this observation. The Commission was not in a position to know what type of procurement it was, it was capital assets, but we were unable to obtain information, so it would be good if the subsequent Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives, knew which types of capital goods would be purchased with this loan, a non-stramatic loan of 2,478,000. So, just a request for further information on what purpose these means are to use and, further, when it comes to point 10. Protecting the investment between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Finland, 11 we support. We propose to the Assembly to decide on granting consent to ratify this investment protection agreement with the Government of the Republic of Finland and also to point 11. We propose to the House of Representatives to make a decision on granting consent to ratifying an agreement on improving and protecting investments between BiH and Sweden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3522	Thank you, Mr. Belkić, President of the Commission. So point 2. Development credit agreement. You heard the opinion of the Finance Commission and Budget. I'm opening a debate at point 2. Who's answering for a word? poslanik Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3523	Mr President, fellow Members of Parliament, as Mr Belkić said, chairman of the Customs Commission and Budget, I, as an MP and a member of the Commission, absolutely agree with this and the proposal that we should work today. I suggest that, as Mr Belkić said, points 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 and 11 might now extend to others, but it does not matter, I think that those who speak of agreements, donations, contracts that have passed a certain procedure, means, from municipalities, cantons of some and then in the Council of Ministers, and according to the BiH Presidency and today at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, to give consent to ratification, means, these agreements, contracts, etc. I would suggest that today we waste constructively, in the sense that after this information we have received, or possibly on some matter of MPs to the Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations or the Treasury to give an answer and that after that we can access the statement. These are agreements needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are needed by municipalities as we see here and, of course, in the coming period, should be done as actively as did the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting. I am saying this because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced in April of intensive agreements concerning the various areas of social life arrangements, and I, as an MP, support it, and I also want to say that the Council in the previous meeting worked very successfully to have a lot of agreements, and finally here we have today to make a statement about them. It worked professionally and correctly. I have a human need, because of the people who worked in the previous session to emphasize it and say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3524	Thank you, Member of the Glagour. poslanik Kovačević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3525	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support these points by not thinking what Mostar and Tuzla are about water supply, but there was also the Municipality of Prnjavor and someone for certain reasons stopped this water supply project of the Municipality of Prnjavor in RS, there at Banja Luka, so I would ask the Ministry of Treasury to consider this project and to find it at one of the next sessions, and in general, since I am a member of the Budget and Finance Commission, I support all these proposals. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3526	Thank you, Ambassador Kovačević. Is anyone else answering for a word? Deputy Minister Ković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3527	The Honorable Presidency, comrades MPs, just to say that this water supply program for Prnjavor in the procedure, so that he is not suspended he will be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3528	Thank you, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. Is anyone else answering for a word? Here, MP Kovačević expressed his satisfaction with this intervention. Is there anyone else calling for word? No, please, can we do this? Who is to approve an agreement on a development loan Project Water supply and sewerage Mostar between BiH and the international development association. Who's in? Thank you, obviously we're with a full political consensus today. Who's against it? There isn't. Who's being held back? Thank you, so 36 MPs have declared themselves to the BiH Development Credit Agreement and the International Development Association. You don't need an entity vote. We can move to point 3. Ad.3. The agreement on financing between BiH and European Investment Bank No. 20515 of the Roads Project, gospodin Belkić, gave his presentation. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. There's no discussion. Thank you. Can we move on to a plea? To approve a financing agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank, the BiH Roads Project. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? I also find that we were unique today around point 3. A financing agreement between BiH and the European Investment Bank, a project for BiH's roads. Ad.4. Framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH for the Tuzla Water Supply Project. We also heard the explanation of the Finance Commission and Budget Who is for you?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3529	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I have information, I think this loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH will not be permanently resolved, you probably know better, Mr. Avdić will not permanently resolve the 13th issue of water supply to Tuzla. For this reason, an initiative was launched, primarily between the municipality of Zvornik and Tuzla Canton, about the possibility, to say, of the permanent supply of municipalities of Tuzla Canton, Zvornik, Lopar and Ugolivik. The programme would bear the name of a water supply programme for northeastern Bosnia from the Drina River alloy near Zvornik. If we weren't technically talking about this, then whether there is a possibility that the programme would include the municipalities of Tuzla, Calesia, Zivnica, Lukavac, Celic, Teocak, Zvornik, Osmaki, Lopare and Ugljevik, it's somewhere around 600,000 inhabitants. Capacity, or potential would be somewhere around 1,500 liters per second without the splinter canals, and with the canals, you were probably over 2,500 liters per second. I do not know, perhaps, the conclusion, in the light of the conclusions or the proposal of the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Trade, to consider this initiative, to seek international funds and possibly assistance from BiH and RS, would indeed resolve the issue of water supplying these ten municipalities.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3530	Thank you, Ambassador Jovanović. Ambassador Šarganović. When it comes to water, it's an important life...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3531	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, since it is a water and a key problem, I am obliged here to say that there is a fact in Bihać that yellow is present at the moment, precisely because of the water and if the Unsko-San canton is abundant in water, sources, etc. here I would like to highlight this problem and that BiH and the Ministerial Council bear in mind that there is a need to invest certain resources to solve in one quality way the water supply of not only Bihac municipality, but the Unsko-San canton, given that the springs of Vrela – Klokot and others, where the water is correct, clean and meets all the conditions for this to be resolved there and also the sewerage, otherwise I support this all that is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3532	Thank you, Ambassador Šarganović. poslanik Spasojević. Zoran Spasojevic Mr. Chairman, I support these loans, or loans given to us by the international community, or individual states, but I would like to ask a few questions, as far as Mostar is concerned, I did not want to discuss this loan for Tuzla. First I would like the professional services of this assembly to write us a short gene, because when we get these materials this is for an economist or a lawyer, I'm not really, and when we start to read it, there's nothing understood here, is it such a hack agreement that nothing is understood, or is it something wrong, and I'm going to back it up with the facts of this direct one, first this agreement was made about the loan between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH as a water supply project and we need to give that consent, it's logical and normal we're going to give it, so it's about the loan. On the other hand, BiH is put as a debtor, or borrower, but in an agreement between BiH and the Federation on page 18. BiH is now being held as a borrower. My opinion is that BiH was supposed to be a lender and the Federation of BiH is a borrower. So when I consulted with the lawyers a little bit, there were one 5-6 14 lawyers, no one could explain to me what it was and how it came to be. Who is now the borrower, who is the lender, is the essence of the guarantee that BiH, the guarantee of this loan, is. Who will return here clearly stands right, etc. I'd still like to ask if these specific cities were competitive for the granting of these loans, if they were, I'd like to know if any of the towns from RS participated, because I would also like to, since I'm coming from Bijeljina and we have a big problem, as far as Bijeljina canalization is concerned, Bijeljina is all lying, there's no sewerage at all. As for water, thank Bog, since I was the director of a water company, we have extremely good water and I think we can supply Brcko with water and we don't have a problem with water. In Bijeljina, the main problem is sewerage and this new composition of the Council of Ministers I will probably, in collaboration with the head of the municipality and all other structures, submit one proposal, whether there is a possibility that Bijeljina will be granted one loan, too, to make sure that BiH is guaranteed that Bijeljina also gets some credit for the sewerage itself, because it is one growing city in development now, which really has no sewers. Furthermore, I would like to say that this professional service makes up a statistical report as to how much agreement has been given so far, how much money has been taken, or how credited it is, and for which cities individually for each city that is and that it delivers it to us for the next session, so much and thank you. Thank you, Ambassador Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3534	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs and gentlemen of the Ministers, I feel duty to provide some information regarding the agreement under point 4. The Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe is '97. The year ended all negotiations with the municipality of Tuzla, related to a $150,000 loan. All documents were then prepared and agreed by the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the granting of such agreements must be made by the state of BiH. The procedure went to the canton, from the Federation canton, from the Federation to the Council of Ministers, if you followed, it was approved by the Council of Ministers there still in session, somewhere in October of the month. Therefore, it is a very old arrangement, which has been extended so far, among other things, because there was a need to regulate the previous obligations between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the state of BiH that existed between these two institutions. As far as the simple question is concerned, who's paying back the loan? The guarantee of this loan is the Federation. Because she is the only one with original income and can be guaranteed, but it is necessary for the BiH state to appear according to, after that she has an agreement between the state and the Federation, which she then transfers, and then has between the Federation and the final debtor, because the Federation cannot appear independently to the Council of Europe's Development Bank, that a million and a half dollars will not solve the problem of water supplying Tuzle that is true, because this is probably long-term, this is an intervening problem, long-term it is possible to do as planned for the entire area of northeastern Bosnia, these are the big projects that can only solve the problem of water supplying that area, and I agree with that, all the issues fit into this and it is not a problem of serious, it is a problem that is being solved either by the Krivaja or by Drina, even 20 years ago, when the first implementing and ideal projects have been created. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3535	Thank you, Ambassador Kušljugić. If you allow just a few words with this explanation as counterpart Kušljugić said Kovačević it is the intervention supply of the town of Tuzla, it is located in Te Tuzla and used the existing system of water supply and water supply it is Lake Modrac, not far from Tuzla, which means the project is under way and it is only intervention. I propose on the background of these suggestions it is to provide us with information on the state of supply in BiH with the funds invested by fellow Spasojević in the posdajton Bosnia and Herzegovina's projects that are in the realisation phase and in this context that we can also think about other intervention projects from the water supply aspect of BiH as a whole, so this would be necessary and necessary in this context also to suggest the project's realiser from this, which means from the town of Tuzla to try to separate some of the funds and to at least study water supply opportunities from the Drina River of this area that is gravitating more than 700,000 people, but let them review that.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3536	I am truly sorry, I do not intend to take up time, I want to inform you that the Commission, probably you have received this material, discussed and discussed the report on BiH's foreign debt debt and for your information we have reached the conclusion and requested that it is first updated, i.e. updated, also that we know who is the ultimate payer of the debt is the State whether it is the Fedracija whether it is RS or one of the public enterprises or some other users who are able to repay the debt and we have expressed concern, with the degree of responsibility of BiH in relation to the total social product annually and I think that we will have to do so before we expose the requirements and the desire to go further into debt, we need to assess how much BiH's social product can withstand this current responsibility, which, by some estimates, has already crossed the limits of normal, i.e.e. allowed for one economy and one state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3537	Is anyone else answering for word? If he does, we can go to a statement with these suggestions that we've been talking about, so along with these suggestions. Who is it that the Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH for the Tuzla City Water Supply Project is approved? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. We can highlight the fact that 35 MPs, one absent, 35 MPs voted in favour, and in this context there is no need for an entity check, or vote, to move to point 5. 16 Ad. 5. The agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers of BiH on granting financial assistance to the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of Ministers, with this question by the Commission, which are capital goods which are thought to be obtained from these funds, is there any response from the Council of Ministers? Mr. Belkić. To be an integral part of the information. Okay. I'm opening a discussion on point 5. Comments, suggestions, no suggestions. Who is it to approve this agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers of BiH on financial assistance? Thank you. Would anyone mind? There isn't. He's got a line held up? There's a abstention. So 34 MPs for – 1 abstention. Can we just say that point 5 is a point 5? Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the granting of fines. to assist the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of Ministers adopted. It is also not necessarily an entity's vote. Ad.6. It's probably the consent of the Civil-Legal Convention against Corruption, or the Civil-Legal Convention against Corruption Here was the Commission on Human Rights, the rapporteur is Mr. Brka, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3538	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, respected ministers, in fact, this is a report by the Constitutional Commission, as Mr Banjac is gone today, since he is absent and we have not chosen the deputies, I have been given the responsibility to tell you something by these two points, meaning, about the Civil-Legal Convention and the Criminal-Legal Convention against Corruption, one point after another, so I don't go out twice. The BiH presidency delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly the Civil-Law Convention against Corruption, which was formed in Strasbourg on 4 November 1999, in order to give consent to ratification and the BiH Presidency also delivered the Criminal and Legal Convention against Corruption to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which was formed in Strasbourg on 27 January 1999 to give consent to ratification. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives agrees that the Civil and Law Convention can be forwarded to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to give consent to ratification and is also agreed that the Criminal and Law Convention can be forwarded to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for ratification.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3539	Thank you, Ambassador Brki. On behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I am opening a discussion on this convention, the Criminal and Law Convention against Corruption, is anyone answering a word? He's not answering. Can we give consent to the adoption of the Civil-Legal Convention against Corruption? 17 Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't. We're finding 35 votes to be adopted under point 6. Civil law convention against corruption. Ad.7. Criminal and Legal Convention against Corruption I am opening a discussion on this point 7.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3540	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to draw your attention to Article 19(3) where it says: “Every member shall take such legal and other measures as are necessary to enable it to be confiscated or otherwise deprived of funds and obtained from criminal offences established in accordance with this Convention or property corresponding to that gain.” Where BiH's legislation is on this and what it is supposed to be like to bring it into line. I think at least you should know that before you raise your hand for this. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3541	Thank Ambassador Đedović for this intervention. On this point, we don't even have entity laws in place. You know as well as I do that the Federation brought Zkon about the abolization, etc. Which means that, objectively, this question is extremely important and important. I think he has a chance to answer this question on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Mišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3542	I mean, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, the respected presidency, Mr. Đedović correctly noticed this, however, when it comes to international conventions, you are certainly aware that they are being approached or not approached that they cannot be changed. Therefore, the ball is in our backyard and it is in our legislation, i.e. the two entities' legislation, to agree with these conventions which we, if we will, need to join in Europe and I think it is our interest that our legislation adapts to them unsuspectingly. So here's how much, and I'm sure this intervention of agents will also awaken awareness and stimulate activity in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3543	Thank you, Mr. Mišić. You have heard the reason, of course, that behind this act of adopting this Convention is the process of harmonising entity laws with the Bosnian lawkeepers of this criminal-legal convention, which has an aspect of the rights, the right of the championship and the necessity to bring BiH law into line with this criminal-legal convention. Please see if anyone else is answering for a word. He's not answering. 18 Can we declare who is in favour, to adopt and confirm the Criminal Law Convention against Corruption? Thank you. Do you mind? Anybody got any abstentions? We can conclude with 36 MPs that it voted in favour, in this sense I declare under point 7. that a Criminal and Law Convention against Corruption in BiH has been adopted and confirmed. Ad.8. Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of Use of Certain Types of Classical Weapons, which may be considered to be the cause of excessive traumatic effects or have non-selective effects These are external affairs commissions. Is there anyone on behalf of the Commission, MP Mediha Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3544	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Foreign Affairs Commission did not hold a meeting since it had no quorum. I now propose, Mr. Chairman, or we should take a brief break of 15 minutes, because we could now, given that members who were not present to the Commission have come to hold a meeting or that you would like to discuss this without the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3545	The Commission should be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3546	Since Mr lužanski lost his term at the House of Representatives of the State Parliament, I ask that the new President of the Foreign Affairs Commission be appointed, because he has received a replacement and I ask that we be given a secretary, because this Commission has no secretaries and it is very difficult to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3547	Thank you, Professor Medihi Filipović. The Commission shall elect its president. The Commission may meet and elect a president.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3548	Do you allow a break of 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3549	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, Council of Ministers, I am Buturović Sead MP in Parliament. As for the work of this committee, we really are today, not that we didn't come because we didn't want to be for technical reasons we could have been present in two places. We've had a club today at the same time is an scheduled session of the Expensive Commission and it's really impossible and since all the previous speakers with whom I absolutely agree that this work in Parliament really needs to be done and that's why 19 we're all here and I welcome all of this, I see a very successful work on complete integration and very well, I think we should work more intensively. It is my suggestion that the Commission meets more often to work, that it is one dynamism, the processes are there, there are great tasks ahead, we cannot meet in two months or in front of the assembly. Please, I'm a part-time worker and I'm obliged to take this call. We want to work, we've made a commitment, who can't say. That's fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3550	Thank Parliamentarian Buturović, I propose a 15-minute break for the Commission to meet and establish and elect a president. A new member has been selected. ... asking you to have one degree of tolerance, namely the principle we adopted at the extended College, which is, MPs whose mandate ends on any basis, who are re-elected or verified by new MPs, the new MPs take the same positions with the same positions in the BiH Parliamentary House Committees. [[PAUZA]] It was a principle that was agreed on by an extended College, and I don't think there's any reason to put it under suspicion or question because it's a consensus. So we have an automatic and mechanism that allows us to replace MPs in the committees of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, with the aspect, normano needs that are set out as a result of going to the Council of Ministers or some other cases, so I suggest that Mrs. Mediha Filipović present the Commission's position on the pause.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3551	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Foreign Affairs Committee has met in this session, thank you for making this possible and has made it clear on item 8 of the agenda and point 13. Point 8 of the agenda refers to the Supplemental Rotocole with the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of certain types of classical weapons, which may be considered to be the cause of excessive traumatic effects or have non-selective effects. The Commission unanimously supports the addition of the Protocol and agrees that this supplement be forwarded to the Parliamentary Assembly for consent and, if you allow me to say immediately, point 13. Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Republic of Macedonia on international road transport of passengers and goods. Also, unanimously, the Commission, members of the Commission for Foreign Policy, agree to forward this agreement to Parliament in order to give its consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3552	Thank you, Ambassador Medihi Filipović. I'm opening a debate at point 8. About the Supplemental Protocol. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering, so we can plead point 8. 20 Who is in order to adopt the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Prohibition or Restriction of the Use of certain types of classical weapons which may be considered the cause of excessive traumatic effects or have non-selective effects. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you, no one's here? Anybody got any abstentions? I find 35 MPs – 36 more arrived in the meantime – 36 MPs, so the need and entity vote were removed, so we declare that item 8 was agreed with 36 votes in favour. There was no opposition and abstention, so the Supplemental Protocol to the Convention on the Prohibition and Restriction of the Use of certain types of classical weapons. Moving to point 9. Ad.9. International Labour Organization Convention number 182 on the worst forms of child labour exploitation Here is our Commission for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3553	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, the Commission for Human Rights and Immigrants, refugees and asylum held the 2nd session in 12 March 2001, discussed the Convention on International Labour Organisation No 182 on the most difficult forms of child labour exploitation. The Commission has not had any objections to the content of the Convention and proposes to the House of Representatives to give consent to the ratification of the Convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3554	I would like to thank the President of the Commission, Mr Burke. Please, I'm opening a debate at 9th. Is anyone answering for a word? Since no one is answering, I am giving a statement to the Convention on International Labour Organization No. 182 on the worst forms of child labour exploitation. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone restrained. So, we find with 36 votes for, the Convention on International Labour Organization No. 182 was adopted on the worst forms of child labour exploitation under point 9. We have two agreements on protection, namely promotion and protection of investments. Ad.10. The agreement to improve investment protection between BiH and the government of the Finnish Finance Commission and Budget has already provided its report. That's a positive opinion. Is anyone answering for a word at this point? There isn't. Thank you. 21 Who is it to adopt this agreement on improving and protecting investment between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Finland? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Abstained? So, we realize that 36 votes are in favour – no one is against – no one has been abstentioned to this agreement on improving and protecting investment between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Finland. Ad.11. The agreement on improving and protecting investment between BiH and Sweden also gave us a positive view of finance and Budget. I'm opening a debate at point 11. Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you. So we can just move on to a statement. Who is it to adopt an Agreement on the Protection of Investments between BiH and Sweden? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone restrained? Thank you. We can again conclude with 36 votes for – no one against – no one abstention, point 11. An agreement to improve and protect investments between BiH and Sweden. Ad.12. The agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Federal Council of Switzerland on the readmission of BiH citizens and citizens of the Swiss Human Rights Commission has already given its opinion. I'm opening a debate at point 12. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no one here. We're moving on to a plea. Who is it that the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Federal Council of Switzerland on the readmission of BiH citizens and citizens of Švajcarska is adopted? Thank you. Do you mind? Someone restrained? The agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the All Council of Switzerland on the readmission of BiH citizens and citizens of Switzerland should be reached with 36 votes. Ad.13. The agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on international road transport of passengers and goods We have just heard the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Professor Mediha Filipović. I'm opening a debate at point 13. Is anyone there? Thank you. Who is to adopt this agreement under point 13? Thank you. Do you mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? 22 Thank you, again, by 36 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, an agreement has been adopted between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on international road transport of passengers and goods. Ad.14. Information on issues related to Balkan syndrome has once been removed from the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with a view to more serious preparation and discussion of this point. I'm opening a debate at point 14. Information on issues related to Balkan syndrome. Is there any new knowledge from the Council of Ministers? There isn't. Who answers the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3555	The respected presidency, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, from the information we have received on issues related to Balkan syndrome, I am personally positively surprised by the seriousness of the treatment and the attempt to find the possibility that this problem can be seen comprehensively and find appropriate solutions. I also think of the activities taken by the Council of Ministers in the past meeting as well as the inclusion of entity governments and the Federation of BiH and RS and other relevant factors that can contribute to the quality of the problem. All these activities undertaken and undertaken are aimed at looking at the existing situation and verifying the credibility of information regarding the disease and mortality in BiH, and should it continue this way, they should result in a proposal for measures to be taken to eliminate the impact of the use of poor uranium on the health status of the dominant population. Since it is already evident, that it is poored, ammunition with the impoverished uranium and there are indications which have not yet been established but there is a high degree of likelihood that, in addition to the poored uranium in that ammunition, others under the health of people of harmful matter have been used, it is also indisputable that many countries, members of the alliance and others, have launched appropriate initiatives, so no doubt at this moment it can be found that the use of such ammunition is harmful to the health of people, regardless of whether this degree of harmfulness is greater or smaller, allowed or not to be allowed intensities, I think and I will make a proposal here to the Parliamentary Assembly, that we as a country in which it is used, unfortunately, this ammunition and that we are those who suffer these adverse consequences, that we are just the initiators of one proposal to the UN, normally in the process and the procedure should be promoted. In that sense, I think that if you support this initiative, you would assign the Council of Ministers to find a way and options, if that is the case, I think it is regulated by some convention to use this kind of ammunition, therefore, to come up with a breakthrough by the Council of Ministers in this direction and that we, as BiH's largest legislative body, are to refer this proposal to relevant factors, or certain bodies, whether it is a Security Council or some commissions, which must before then be engaged to UN institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3556	Thank you, Ambassador Mijatović. Ambassador Šarganović. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3557	I think NATO experts have been considering the impact of this ammunition on the immediate health of soldiers and the population and have proven that there is no direct danger. However, the half-life, if 10 to the minus 6 or to the minus 9th, etc. Kra... on the other hand, based on this data, we saw that BiH, not at the level of BiH, has an institution that can carry out a valid measurement. I don't know what the situation is at entity level, but, as measures of radio-activity are being taken at both level and in the BiH area, I think we could draw attention and attention to this subject, that BiH, the Council of Ministers, should see which one is the institution, which is the necessary means and equipment. I personally think that the two components of the army have a surplus in terms of the reduction of the military and these personnel and these equipment, etc. and it wouldn't be bad if BiH had measurements of radio-active, chemical and biological and others.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3558	Thank you, Ambassador Šarganović. Ambassador Bjelobrk Bjelabrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3559	In the last two calls of the Council of Ministers, the information discusses the problem of communication with relevant international institutions and in this regard possible steps that can be taken. I would like to draw attention here to the position of BiH at the International Atomic Energy Agency, whose headquarters is in Vienna and the problem of our internal, let's say, not understanding, to use the term in the last five years. In fact, three years ago I was a participant of the World Atomic Energy Conference in Vienna and I had firsthand seen all the incompetences of our ways of agreeing and in return the reduced ability to withdraw benefits and the financial and technical nature that this agency provides. In this context, regardless of the topic, the subject of this information is Balkan syndrome, the public in BiH has been burdened for a number of years with various information on the storage of various forms that are associated with radio-activity up to, say, the latest information on the direct construction of a warehouse for medium and low radio-active waste near the BiH border. In order to be in a position to consider in BiH at all this kind of problem which, quite certainly, will be very current in the future, I suggest that the Council of Ministers discuss these two conclusions and discussions on Balkan syndrome, in particular consider options, therefore, protocol actions related to our membership in the International Atomic Energy Agency and in this context constitute an appropriate protocol, which will then bring us into a position so that we can also from the point of view fine. and technical assistance to enter the first session, what we see in our country today, and the second and the construction of a whole series of measures that need to be put in place at the end because... so there exist in other activities, for example in industry and in health care. So one is a problem with war syndrome and another is the problem that is otherwise waiting for us in the peacetime arrangement of the environment. I therefore advise that for one normal session, I assume in one month or two days we will receive from the Council of Ministers, or 24 foreign affairs departments, a move that would lead us to a positive and active position at the International Atomic Energy Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3560	Thank you, Ambassador Bjelobrk. Ambassador Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3561	The BiH MPs' club also carefully considered this information and we probably agree with others that it is already quite inaccurate because it was done in January o.g. a The information itself indicates that in February and March a series of very important meetings and some other analyses, reports, etc., so it would be good to update this information, so in the form of a return here, especially when it comes to the activity of this ad-hok committee. We suggest that the Assembly take note of this information to task the Council of Ministers to provide us with current, additional information on the activities on this plan led and in the NATO Pact and our entity or interrest committees formed by the Council of Ministers, with the suggestion of trying to focus more attention on the consequences of the local population, because this version of information is mainly due to the type and nature of data being directed towards soldiers who were in our country's area at the moment, and less on the consequences of the local population living and living in certain areas where these things were happening, this is an opportunity for the Members of the Party for BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3562	Thank you, Ambassador Belkić. Is there anyone else reporting for discussion? Sir, Ambassador Buturović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3563	Here I am again reporting that I am not representing myself, a little bit of this, not a little bit but rather about our professional activity, that's one really big problem, and now on this problem as well as a number of others, it shows how much our fragmentation, not our commitment, not our connection, not the exchange of information creates even bigger problems. There is no single cancer register in our country at all and only individual cantons register and keep records of reported malignancies on the ground. The carcinoma register, when established, allows you to learn about the actual size of the problem, the incidence, the prevalence, the mortality, and their movements in time between certain areas. The registry allows, which is very important, to establish a basis for planning and organising environmental services, taking over early screening, early cancer detection and human education, a very important thing. So this is what we've discussed with our profession, I say, this problem and I'm saying, and it shows on some examples that 20 to 30% of cases are not even registered for cancer disease. Therefore, these data that they gave are not accurate. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3564	I thank MP Bturović, MP Stokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3565	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I would like to say just a few sentences concerning this problem. The fact is that NATO's pact used ammunition with impoverished uranium in the bombing of BiH, the fact that the ammunition has negative consequences for the population living in those areas, primarily in the localities that were directly exposed to the bombing. But what we need to do, what we need to do to carry out a complete expert analysis of this problem, to come up with a result that will help one side get involved, if it can be affected, that the ammunition is not being used in the future. I think there are enough arguments, primarily in terms of health conditions, of the population that was directly exposed to the effects of that ammunition. I have come up with some information that people who have been moved from Hadzic to Bratunac have died of malignancies in the meantime, which can certainly be directly linked to the effects of this ammunition. On the other hand, perhaps a commission should be appointed in this congregation. I think the Assembly of the RS has also formed a three-member commission to deal with this problem, which will certainly help with certain professional services, which may once again be the Council of Ministers to determine, which means that a complete professional, analysis of this problem is being made to have, in order to get the right professional result under the health of the population. However, I think that sometimes and consciously overestimated the harmful action especially now in this period, because I am very informed that the poored uranium has a very short range, these are alpha waves that do not operate in the distance and that it is relatively fast eliminated, so that there is another danger of creating one bad picture of BiH in this way as a contaminated area which can have very negative consequences for the exports of our agricultural products. I think we should take care of that, too. So it is very important to establish the right state, the possibility of harmful action at the time of the bombing on the population and whether there are consequences for food in the future for our agricultural production and for the possibility of placing products outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3566	Thank you, Ambassador Stokić. poslanik Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3567	I would refer to Mr. Bjelobrk, he only mentioned a very important question along the way, and this is the conclusion that she could go to the next point under the parliamentary questions to assign Mr. Lagumdžija and the Foreign Ministry to prepare information for the next session on whether it is true that a nuclear waste storage facility is being built along the border of our country there near New Town. If that's true, it's something that's extremely circumstantial that has to be prevented in time. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3568	Thank you, Ambassador Lolić. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3569	Ladies and gentlemen, after the campaign that was created on this question, The Balkan syndrome that we see here and through the information entered the official need with that name and if it can be said and not adequate. The Council of Ministers immediately responded by forming an inter-resor council tasked the Ministry of Civil Affairs to make up one serious information and deliver it to the House of Representatives. The Council of Ministers reacted very quickly and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications also held a meeting, and you have received a proposal for measures to be taken and how to deal with it. Of course, for reasons known, the House of Representatives did not take this important question into consideration, and I came only to tell you that, because at that time as Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, I was in charge of this information that we were trying to form this information on the basis of relevant facts, given that the means of information gave great attention to this issue. We could not take articles from the press as a fact, but on the basis of official evidence from institutions and other relevant factors that participated from the entity to the level of BiH we installed it in and behind the information. Therefore, I suggest that the information on the question so-called. Balkan syndrome is today adopted, that all those who need to do so, which is the Council of Ministers, certain ministries and entity-levels, just as the Interresor Council has been told, on the basis of official information, by the BiH Parliament. I believe that at this point, this is the only rational solution that, on this important issue, based on relevant information and official institutions, we can explain to our citizens to what degree this is a danger, or perhaps it is bloated by means of information. In this way, we can only give one valid answer and as responsible people stand only behind official information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3570	Thank you, Ambassador Gligorić. Is anyone else answering for word? So we can conclude this point on Balkan syndrome, with the need to ask the Council of Ministers if there are any possible answers to this question from the point of view of nuclear waste storage or, Minister Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3571	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, colleagues, on the matter asked by Ambassador Lolić, I would just like to inform you that we have already been offered the information that we have received, through the means of information, already launched appropriate activities and communicated with the competent ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and launched the usual procedure to obtain valid information about what it is. In any case, regardless of this, about this request that has been made here, we certainly would have found a way to get to know, if we came to some knowledge that is, I hope that we will not get to know it, but if we came to the knowledge that, which can complicate the situation, given that it is a delicate matter, we would have met Parliament 27. However, regardless, we will be offered this question by MP Lolić to get to know Parliament with the material, and then you will assess whether it needs to go as a part of the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3572	I thank Minister Lagumdžija. So we can go with the definition of one conclusion to accept information about so-called. Balkan syndrome, that we have a few suggestions for the Council of Minsitarians, which is to review the possibility of defining a proposal to UN bodies on a possible ban on the use of ammunition with orphaned uranium. Two, to establish continuity in measuring radio-active radiation in BiH's space, with the making of appropriate maps and everything else that follows the whole process. Three, to establish a procedure for BiH's admission to the International Nuclear Energy Agency and, ultimately, I also have a series of suggestions from experts in this area, especially from the field of health, which is to establish a single register of cancers at BiH level, linking entities and in this context creating a unique register of aspects in order to assess, statistically process and simply obtain a picture, the whole of images of possible causes leading to cancer at BiH level. We have appropriate institutions to respond that the Council of Ministers in the previous composition has formed an inter-resor ministerial council that will deal exclusively with these issues, which will be related to the ad-hok NATO Committee, in this sense there is really no need to form some parliamentary commissions or groups, from the aspect of the processing of this problem, to give confidence to the Council of Ministers and to what we have received as information and what is in the domain of the Council of Ministers, namely this inter-resor, inter-resor ministerial council dealing with Balkan syndrome issues. Can we, with these conclusions, suggestions and this conclusion? Mr. Mišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3573	Just a little suggestion, that at the point, it seems to me 3. where you said that Bosnia joins – joins the International Atomic Energy Agency to ask for it, because we are already active and we are cooperating and we are a member, etc. to ask the Council of Ministers to inform you about the current cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the problems that arise, and the problems are as Mr. Bjelobrk has said more or less on our side, from not paying or laying down obligations to them, to not being able to take whatever they are able to offer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3574	Thank you. Here, so we're finding out with pleasure we're a member of the Nuclear Energy Agency. He asked for the word Mr. Borić, MP Borić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3575	I think that some MPs in addressing this important issue stressed the need for this assembly to be regularly informed on the background of what I have come up with and to suggest a conclusion on, of course, the Council of Ministers will monitor it regularly, but that the Assembly be informed so that the public is also informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3576	I thank Ambassador Borić. The intervention is absolutely necessary and necessary. So, under the 5th suggestion, the conclusion that the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Assembly in BiH as a whole is in the continuity of informing about all the developments in the area of what we know is a Balkan syndrome that is not exactly an adequate name for this all that is happening. So we have these five internal conclusions of the House of Representatives and this conclusion fundamentally that information is being received. Who's in? I apologize to Ambassador Mijatović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3577	I would say, dear colleague, that there are no harmful consequences to the use of uranium, if that's true, then all these activities that we're going to do now, which we're going to do without at least. And I don't know if anyone from the State Department or anyone else, a month ago my godfather came from Canada and came back, came back 15 days ago. He wanted to take home the prosciutto and something like that, however, he was informed, and you can check that Canada, where he lives now, forbids anything from BiH to get into Canada from food. Now, please, if this is true and it is, check and if there are already a number of countries that are doing the same, then I'm asking you if we have the right to treat this issue in this way. Also, I fully respect these reports. I have and welcomed it, however, I think, in the reports of all other states, which is understandable to me as well, is only spoken of by their soldiers. Nowhere mentions BiH's dominant population, which, eventually, will I say, unless it already suffers, and by all indications suffers what about the status of the population? I don't know, my idea, I find it personally noble, I don't know who she would have bothered at this point if we had the fact that most of the NATO members who used uranium in BiH, I'm not going into it whether or not we should have, we need to refuse to turn to the future what we said we weren't repeating and we're not going into some kind of political or political thing, but to take care of the dominant population, etc., one initiative that we were suffering BiH in, therefore, not prejudicing anything. I did not ask that we declare it but that the Council of Ministers or other relevant body on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly, through the relevant UN institutions, examines the possibility of applying the poored uranium to the international convention on the entire globe in order to protect every man, regardless of the nation, race, color or whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3578	poslanik Mijatović, we put it in our first conclusion. I read it. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3579	Once again, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the respected presidency, I fully understand representative Mijatović and I think he is absolutely right when he asks us not to appreciate the potential impact and consequences of using ammunition with poor uranium on the population. The Council of Ministers will, in that sense... give the relevant governments and their ministries their full attention to this matter. Also, the initiative that you, Mr. Chairman, have formulated as the first one, we, too, are going to talk too much, take it seriously and do it at the conclusion of this house. I, the only thing that won't be against me is MP Mijatović, I'm traveling to the United States for 30 years, and it's never been allowed to enter the United States or a piece of dry meat, meat products, animal, food products of animal origin, and especially now that they're concerned about preventing the entry of foot and foot, I don't know crazy cows, etc., so we're not blacklisted, and if any of the Members of Parliament noticed very well, it would be good to be careful not to pre-name our own problem. I don't appreciate it with this, and I don't eliminate it, on the contrary, I take it very seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3580	Thank you, Deputy Minister Mišić. Ambassador Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3581	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I am one of the MPs who has been circled here on this map several times from Han Pijesk, where in NATO's report to say it has been acknowledged that the uranium has been shot and therefore, listening here, I do not know how much you have read this material and how seriously we have taken this debate today, in addition to the act, I will only quote: “In addition to the act we are delivering a copy of the coordinated data on the use of ammunition enriched uranium in BiH, a copy of the political review of NATO military staff's neoplastic diseases in the Balkans in the period of '98. - 2000. A year, as well as two copies of Hadzici and Han Pijesak maps, with localities drawn up that were affected by the ammunition of enriched uranium. Since I was a member of and the Council of Europe as a special guest, we also had on the Committee, on the Council of Europe for the Environment of the debate that has just begun and I can only tell you that it is much more serious, and I suppose it should be at some level than at our level. I believe that this should be the main to say so and the daily debate that the Council of Ministers and our Parliament, together with our institutions, must be involved, but this problem, I think, can be solved from a higher level, which is European level and people dealing with this particular area, especially atomic energy, and in this sense, it is our obligation as a BiH Parliamentarian that we do not put this issue absolutely under the rug, that this issue be public, that it is transparent that we as a people and a European civilization must know about this and that we know exactly the dangers that have arisen and come from this problem. I can only tell you, I've listened to experts in the Council of Europe who are much, much more serious about this issue talking about one long-term consequences both in the public and in the environment, if it were, I say, and if 30 are admitted to this kind of bombing of these areas. That is why I believe that we too must approach this problem much, much more seriously and more studioly, together with European institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3582	I thank Ambassador Tošić. poslanik Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3583	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to the MPs that after this information, and I believe that the proposed measures, which are highly professionally processed by the expert bodies, are given today at this moment, on this very important issue, sufficient information and measures to be taken. I would not like to personally draw the conclusion from individual MPs that BiH is a infected country and that food will be infected from that country in ecological, agricultural, livestock, and any other sense. So we asked, at that time when I was the minister of impact map, since it was definitely found that the impact of local space was marked with a certain fact of radiation that can be based on instruments and educational personnel, thus determining how much certain space, which was the target of impact, could be compromised. Everything else, and we also have unintentioned people who want to say that, that the supplies from BiH will bear one degree of radiation. I, gentlemen, ask you, if in this case we are alone, but without prior information that we do not have at this point of expertise, have told you about the whole area of BiH that it is, then we have undermined the basic foundations of BiH, and that what is ecological and I believe that BiH as a whole is a healthy environment ecological, it can certainly be in the environment to offer a certain range of healthy food. That's why we made a free trade agreement with the Republic of Croatia. This should be done these days, and the foreign ministry and others will work on it with the SRJ and other countries, in which case, if we get the wrong conclusion ourselves that food in BiH is infected because of the poored uranium, then we have signed a death sentence. That is why it is dangerous, impromptu to speak, without previously speaking to the professional authorities and facts and precisely to the space which was the target of the impact and in this informing our public, Parliament and our public, are concerned about citizens for a reason, but then to say exactly what the percentage of the impact was and what the degree of irradiation is today whether he, whether he is jeopardising the health of our people and of course what from the ground, they live from the country. Therefore, I believe that we can simply go through expert bodies and not draw too fast conclusions that can cost us very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3584	Thank you, Ambassador Gligorić. Is anyone else answering for word? This is a serious intervention by colleagues Gligorić and is seeking part of another suggestion that the Council of Ministers must urgently, on the basis of knowledge of the Interresorship Council, means the Interresor Council of Ministers, come out officially to the public of BiH from the aspect of the threat of BiH soil, water and air, meaning the state of the country in BiH citizens and simply everything that is related to the possible consequences of the ammunition with the impoverished uranium. I think it is necessary and necessary and in this context Information that, but the information must ultimately have its conclusion, i.e. a clear descends from the aspect of the possible consequences that it could produce, could produce the impact and facts of the NATO pact from the aspect of the use of ammunition with the impoverished uranium. So, I propose that the Ministerial 31st Council, meaning the Council of Ministers on Emergency with Official and Founded Information, on the basis of the opinion of the entity committees formed by the Public Health Office, the Interresor Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers, should unanimity be announced and that they state their views in terms of issues related to Balkan syndrome. That's below six, so that's a suggestion, that's a conclusion. I don't think there's any need to repeat these six conclusions, or suggestions with a fundamental conclusion that this information is being received. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Is anyone restrained? Two abstentions. So we have 34 MPs for – no problem and two are abstentions. So we can also consider that the information was adopted and these conclusions. I don't think it's necessary to go to an entity vote and in that context we ended up point 14. We're left with point 15, final point. Ad.15. Answers to MPs' questions and questions I am opening a debate, possible parliamentary questions, interventions, proposals, suggestions, suggestions and everything else in the House's domain. Professor Mediha Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3585	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we return as a part of the agenda the issue of meeting the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe and I ask the Chairman that, I think it would be good to inform Mr Laslo Šurjan in writing, who is our rapporteur in front of the Political Affairs Committee of the Council of Europe, as well as Mrs Jattenmaki, who is the rapporteur of the Committee for the Respect of Human Rights, means that it is written to inform that the joint services of the state institutions of BiH have been fully formed, because this was a prerequisite for continuing talks with the BiH Parliament on the admission of our country to the Council of Europe. So, it would be good for them to inform themselves in writing and ask Mr. Rasel Džonson of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to send Mr. Šurjan and Mrs. Jattermak back to visit BiH so that these talks can continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3586	I thank Ambassador Filipović. Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3587	I'd like to ask two questions or two suggestions, one to the Council of Ministers, I think it's the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. You'll see where it belongs. It's about illegal immigration through BiH. Whether there are united data on this activity, whether there are data on people who have been returned from other countries on this basis, whether anyone is more seriously engaged at the state level, some team, and what this home should do in this direction to bring this problem down to as little as possible, because it is known which problems we have and where we are all subject to discussion on this issue. 32 The second question, perhaps closely related, is visas for BiH citizens, as soon as they cross the border, it is the following. Is there a proposal in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for measures or at least hints or at least any favourable wind to change the government in BiH, making this regime easier for our citizens, primarily with the countries of the European Union, and yet in this context, it is particularly difficult to question our people who have temporary work permits in Germany, Switzerland, whether and what can be done and again what we as MPs in this House should do in order to be able to do so as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3588	Thank Ambassador Đedović. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3589	I will question us all here, and above all, the Council of Ministers. In what way do the Council of Ministers and we intend to protect BiH as a single economic, economic and economic and market area? I mean, from the point of view of these latest developments in the price of oil and in the matter of picking up these customs of the latest developments around HDZ and other situations?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3590	I thank Ambassador Malkić. poslanik Spasojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3591	Here's my question. For what is the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act withdrawn from the procedure, the reason why and when the new proposal will come, because it is in the interest of all three peoples, because this proposal that was, I understand little was extremely good for all three peoples?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3592	I thank Ambassador Spasojević. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Lolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3593	My colleague Đedović took some of my questions. I think that the time has matured for Europe, first of all the European Union, to be a sign of good faith for everything that is going on in BiH, at least for the holders of official and diplomatic passports to introduce a visa-free regime, because if Croatia and Slovenia can have such a procedure for all citizens, I don't know why we wouldn't at least for this group, and I think it could be an initiative that would be addressed by us. I read that article by Mr. Klajn where he made it quite clear what the problems were, I think he was in Days or in Free Bosnia. However, I think this would be a good initiative and to prepare for the next session who can have all this as an official passport and whether MPs can get a diplomatic passport, because these are actually people who travel the most and visas and represent a problem, and I think this would be a good introduction to something that will end with the abolition of the regime for all BiH citizens. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3594	Thank you, Ambassador Lolić. Deputy Minister Lagumdžija, the minister, yes, is anyone else answering questions. Ambassador Muhamed Begović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3595	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, numerous protests by the citizens of Tuzla are at the Commission's Media Decision, which prohibits the work of the Bosniak “Radio-Hajat” Tuzla. It is apparent from the reasons that there was no legal basis for the Media Commission to make such a decision, so that 5 February is prohibited from working on this radio station, which is of interest, of course, like all other stations. That's why I'm asking a question. Whose jurisdiction is the oversight of this commission? I refer this question to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to consider this issue and take appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3596	Thank you, Ambassador Begović. Is anyone else answering for word? poslanik Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3597	Since the question of passports of official, diplomatic, as for our citizens is normally of great interest. It is perfectly clear to me that MPs, so the BiH Parliament and the entity parliaments have the right to diplomatic passports. It would be good for official passports to also give them a visa for six months, as it is related to diplomatic, for reasons, primarily used by our economy, directors, etc. Visiting embassies wasting time, etc. It would be good in this way in an economic, economic sense to improve and facilitate the work of our directors, tomorrow managers, etc., and at the same time this is not a question, but in a way in a technical sense and it is a good opportunity, it is difficult for us individually to look for it, it would be good for the foreign ministry to prepare for the BiH Parliament's diplomatic passports, given that you are already in delegations and that you are traveling in a technical way, effectively and uniformly for all of this to be filled out, and in this way we will get practically in the days to come there, we will certainly save time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3598	Thank you, Ambassador Gligorić. It is expected that Minister Lagumdžija will give consent to these proposals on behalf of the foreign ministry. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3599	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, esteemed colleagues, naturally I will just say a few words, since according to the Rules of Procedure, as far as I know, something can be answered immediately to avoid, but all the answers that are set here will be received by the written reply of the competent ministries and rather detailed and we will try to do so as soon as possible. 34 However, I would just like to say a few words that do not replace the answers you will receive in writing. In fact, let me just inform you that the issue of illegal immigration, which Mr. Đedović has initiated here, and that the issue is less touched by this whole set of issues concerning visa-free regimes and facilitating procedures on the journey of our citizens outside. I just want to let you know that on that list of priorities, this is the Council of Ministers. The issue of illegal immigration in BiH and via BiH as one of the biggest problems this country has in relations with our neighbours with the European Union and as regards speeding up the BiH integration process in Europe. In fact, within three days, practically two days in BiH, or in Sarajevo, there is an International Adference in Co-operation with the European Troika, which will have a regional character, which will be dedicated exclusively to issues of joint co-ordinated action in the fight against illegal migration, that is not only in BiH, but in the region and most of our external political activities is just aimed at supporting this problem, because it does not want to, I do not want to bother you now, not only the problem of illegal immigration, but it is in the long term, carcinogenic tissue of a society like ours, because illegal immigration is opening problems in fact decommissioning society in its healthy tissue such as this is ours, because the issue of illegal immigration is in fact directly destroying other aspects of life in one country. I don't want to talk about the crime aspect of this problem right now, just to tell you, I want to inform Parliament about the seriousness of the whole problem and thank Mr Đedović for opening the possibility that I should say a few words on this subject, because we didn't have this on the agenda today. Namely, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of European Integration, along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as you can see, is simply not the Ministry of Foreign Trade involved, practically these four ministries together with the European Troika are preparing this meeting and will be held by participants, active participants as members of the delegation of the entity ministers, primarily interior ministers. Also, I want to say to this occasion that you will inform about this and everything that is said here today, everyone in writing, and when it comes to the visa regime, be assured that the visa regime is most directly related to the exact answer to the question that I have given you just a few indications. In the end, with all due respect, you're the one who's gonna give a grade on it. We'll give you the proper information. Many, people who have diplomatic passports and official passports, have incomparably greater benefits than people who have ordinary passports, not to say those who do not have any, so that the possession of diplomatic and official passports, gives adequate similarities and conveniences to people and everything that implies simplifying the visas in the function of carrying out their duties, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is all, absolutely all in accordance with the law and the relevant rules available and I can only tell you that diplomatic passport for all MPs – no problem must be MPs, anyone to whom it takes longer than 24 hours has the right to seek the responsibility of the competent people in this ministry. I know that was once a problem, because I used to be an MP – a MP and often it went needlessly long and difficult and 35 there was no reason to do so and finally to tell you that we have a political assessment that stands among us in the Council of Ministers, that we are not trying to create any special benefits, for holders of diplomatic and official passports, other than those of the benefits that arise from the principle of reciprocity, which we have with other countries, because our point of view, some day we had a conversation, but if the assessment of Parliament is different, we are obliged to act in that way, namely, we do not consider that we should have any additional privileges to have holders of diplomatic and official passports, which we are not at least able to try to solve for people who have ordinary passports, because we already have enough benefits as carriers of diplomatic and officialism, we do not need to make an additional point of action. If Parliament thinks otherwise, we are ready to do whatever the decision is, but I don't think it's the subject of this debate and information you'll get properly in response to your question. I thank you again, colleague Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-03-26-0.u3600	I thank Minister Lagumdžija. Just a few seconds of patience. I would also inform you that, that the representatives of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers have recently been visiting BiH, that they have spoken to the Council of Ministers, representatives of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Commission, in this sense we can believe that they have sent a report to the Council of Europe and in this context that we have obtained assumptions, that we have the right to re-sustain or re-activate the request for BiH to join the Ve, that is one in written form to provide an assessment that the central institutions of the authorities have been formed and that the results of the general elections are implemented in November 2000 and from that aspect that we point of stress at the top of the list of priorities of the work of the House of Representatives and Parliamentary Assembly as a whole, together with the House of Peoples are procedures and BiH's entry into the WE. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 11 p.m. with the Finance and Budget Commission scheduled its session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and Constitutional and Legal, too, and now the Constitutional and Legal Committee can stay here immediately. The seat's finished at 2:15.
