ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5386	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 16th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, the House's meeting was called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, they were present, but because of the obligation they had to leave, I am responsible for transferring it to you, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representative of the European Union, representative of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, representative of the EU's monitoring mission to BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy, representatives of other international organisations in BiH. Representatives of public information funds were also invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome you and thank you for your participation in the work of this house. According to the service report, 40 MPs attend the session. The absence was justified by MP Ljubomir Kovačević. So we have a quorum to do. Gentlemen, as you know, this session has been convened on the basis of Article 21a) so, by consensus of all the parliamentary club chairmans, at a session held just before the beginning of this session. The consensus was also agreed on by the draft agenda, which you received, in order to reach consensus and agreement in the General College of the House of Representatives, which is why the beginning of the session has been moved, and please the Members of Parliament and others to respect it. On a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the College agreed to remove from today's session the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, for the reason that an agreement was reached with the representatives of the entity to declare by 20 November the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. We received from the Council of Ministers a proposal for a law on the purpose and use of property, which BiH received under an agreement on matters of succession in Basel's bank for international settlements, requiring that this legislative proposal be considered by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. It's the rules of procedure at home. In preparation for this session, today, I repeat the session of the Colleges in an extended composition, where, considering the above-mentioned proposals, a consensus has been reached to implement changes to the proposed agenda. Therefore, for the 16th session, we propose the next agenda. Gentlemen, I wouldn't read. Are there two other suggestions? We're moving on to a debate on the agenda proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? If no one answers, let me and yes, for the record read the agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 15th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Consider the letter of readiness to assume responsibility for the implementation of all the conditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe; 3. Parliamentary questions and answers; 4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach consensus and the Proposal for a Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce; 5. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the uniform text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act; 6. Proposal for a law on industrial ownership – second reading; 7. Request of the Council of Ministers to consider an emergency procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Proposal for a Law on the Use of Immigrants, which BiH received under the agreement on matters of succession in the Banca for International Harmonisation at Basel; 8. Proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH – first reading 9. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The reconstruction project of railways between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's our agenda today. We're going to work on the agenda of the session. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 15th session of this house, please. Does it have any objections to the text of the minutes? If there are no objections, no suggestions, no additions, I'll put it to the vote. Who's for the adoption of the minutes from the 15th session of this house? I ask the MPs to vote. Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? – abstention 1 Of the 40 present for 39 abstention 1. I find the record has been adopted. Ad.2. Consideration of the letter of readiness to assume responsibility for the implementation of all the conditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe As you know, this letter should be considered at the meeting on 8 November, when the session was postponed due to the new amendments given to the letter by the Political Committee of the Council of Europe. Let me remind you, on that very day, we were given the text adopted by the Political Committee of the Council of Europe and thus the previous version became an old version and was no longer before us to declare it. Meanwhile, the letter with the amendments was discussed and supported by the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. The word comes from Vice-President Mariofil Ljubić. Here you go, Mr. Ljubić. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5387	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, based on the debate of this point 2. Consider a letter of readiness to assume responsibility for the implementation of all conditions for BiH's entry for full membership of the Council of Europe, on behalf of the College of the House of Representatives, I propose the adoption of a resolution. It is therefore based on Article 121(2). Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, we propose that the Parliamentary House of BiH adopt a resolution on the readiness to accept the obligations that arise for the member states of the Council of Europe. I am honored to inform you that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we address the Council of Europe, held on 20 November 2001, adopted the next resolution. The text of the resolution reads. The firmly committed to BiH's membership in full membership of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly, expressed its desire and willingness to assume and implement the obligations arising from the documents and views of the Council of Europe, based on respect for the Constitution and the law, the rule of law and respect for human rights, with respect. This is the wording of the resolution, which we propose to adopt on this agenda point and normally be referred to the Council of Europe, and certainly, if the result is positive, it means that the chairman, on behalf of the House of Representatives, will carry out the signing of the text and, therefore, allow us to be admitted to the Council of Europe as soon as possible and to ask the services to share this text.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5388	Thank you. This text was on the Extended College and MPs were informed that the Enlarged College had accepted this text, which were submitted by members of the College of the House of Representatives. We agreed on an extended college, and that is my request, which I repeat, to limit the discussion in the sense that, the agreement is to be one MP from each club, and I ask you, if it is possible to complete the discussion, no later than 14 hours and 45 minutes, from the protocol obligations of the chairman of the House of Representatives, if, of course, the House of Representatives accepts this resolution. The first Mr. Bogić answered for the word and then Mr. Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5389	Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, the Honorable Presidency, the SDP MPs' club is pleased to finally meet the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, the oldest European political organisation. We welcome a consensus among the parliamentary political parties to adopt the Resolution on the readiness to accept commitments, which stem from BiH's membership in the Council of Europe, in accordance with the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution and the laws of BiH. We are giving full support to the chairman-in-Office of the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives, that today, on behalf of Parliament, sign a statement, which leads BiH to the Council of Europe and gives the BiH Parliament part of the obligations to be met after BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. So much and thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5390	Respected Presidency, respected fellow ministers, guests, journalists, I will be a little less happy than Mr Bogićević and, if I and my club will help every step that can bring BiH closer to the Council of Europe and all European associations. However, even though we will vote in favour of this proposed resolution, supported by Mr Ljubic, proposed by Mr Ljubić, we would also like to express our concern for, in our opinion, certain gaps in this text. I will only fuculate two things: under the number 4 of domestic legislation under a) adopt and implement within one year, following the adoption of the amendment to the Constitution and the laws, necessary to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people of BiH since June 2000. We are indeed expressing our concern that this deadline is being extended this long. As far as we know, Mr. Petrić, was given a deadline April o.g. that the Constitutional Court's decision is implemented. Here we are in November and today we are going to adopt this, and the Council of Europe proposes that this be made available over a year. I am concerned about this attitude, for a reason, especially, which stands on the next page under b). Consider again within one year of accession, with the help of the European Commission for Democracy, through the right of the Venice Commission to electoral regulation, in light of the Council of Europe's standards to make the necessary changes. What it comes from, that if we were to stick to the deadlines, we would have the following choices, by old, by the Electoral Law, which we have voted for, aware of his shortcomings. So we couldn't change it by doing this at all. So, the deadline's going up. It can be with all those shortcomings, and if, when we passed the Electoral Law, we'll be able to handle it in the walk, and we know that this is, that these are shortcomings, but here's what we're going to do. I am afraid, I express my concern, the club's concern, that in this way, with deadlines like this, the situation in BiH is actually concrete. If it is concreteized for the next five years, it will still not be needed to concreteize it, it will be confused for all time. That is why we expressed our concern, indeed, because of these attitudes and we consider and ask responsible people in the Council of Europe to reduce these deadlines and that they, in any case, meet these things before the next elections. We believe that this will make the situation in BiH normal much sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5391	Who's answering for a word? Mr. Željko Bilbija.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5392	The Honorable Chairman, a respected member of the Presidency, fellow Members, ladies and guests, the City Club supports this resolution and hopes that BiH will be in the Council of Europe at the beginning of next year, in this act itself, we also give the Parliament's chairman the opportunity to sign this resolution and we propose that this end, because I see BiH already in the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5393	Thank you, Mr. Bilbija. Mr. Cuplow. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5394	Dear Chairman, an esteemed member of the Belkić predsjedništvo, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, in front of the BiH Party's MPs, I am pleased that we are in a position to adopt a resolution that defines in a certain way the very clear and precise commitment of this parliament, as part of our efforts to enter European integration processes. Of course, part of these solutions can be offered probably even more quality and it seems to me that framework acceptance does not prevent us from working together and working together, let's make solutions faster, better quality and more efficient. It's something to come. The consensus that we had on the Expansive College today gives me the right to think that we will work together very successfully and collectively to meet the conditions, which are clearly given to us in the task.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5395	Thank you very much. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Marko Amidžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5396	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, ministers and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the media, I welcome you and for this speaker as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In accordance with Article 37 d), this Commission had an obligation to consider the letter of intent, i.e. a statement, which it did at its session of 8.11.g. In front of that delayed House of Representatives session. First, it means that I support the efforts of all BiH institutions to achieve such a text of resolution and practical steps that will mean our determination to become a member of the Council of Europe. So, regardless of what the resolution is then, until this moment, it has not been delivered and the Commission has not spoken of it, and that is its jurisdiction, I am giving my view that if this resolution is the way to accepting tasks and joining BiH to the Council of Europe, then I support it. I support the way, so, the debate on these issues. However, I am obliged to point out that, the Foreign Affairs Commission adopted its conclusions and we delivered it to the Office under 1. to propose to the House of Representatives to accept the letter and under 2. to ask all those institutions to make their operational plans for the 2000-year office, a map of the road to the implementation of requests highlighted in the letter. If you didn't get it, you'll get it later. So that's what the Commission has decided, and you have a positive opinion from the Commission that you can plead positive for this issue at this session. However, as the chairperson of the Commission at this point, I am addressing the members of the Commission to verify the correctness of my position. Do I have a mandate, that without the Commission, without a session of the Commission, we should either support this resolution or we should seek a break and hold a session of the Commission on the resolution. I don't think that's necessary at this point. However, I request an answer to one or two questions from the College of the House of Representatives. I repeat, I support the resolution and I will vote for these solutions, but the question is: 6-1. Does the adoption of the resolution mean a letter from the president of the House or someone from the College? If that means it won't be a paraphras, then it means that we have two texts, two materials, and then we plead to something that won't be. It is very important for us, if a resolution is adopted, to adopt a conclusion, which one of the colleges, who will, is all one thing to me, empowers me to sign what is required of the paraphras. If there's no parade, then we're objectively talking about two things. I would not like to make a mistake, but I would like to warn myself of the responsibility of my own personal text, compared to the text I supported, which was unanimously supported by the Commission, against the text signed and delivered by the Presidency both to the public and to the international community, i.e. the future tasks. If that means, if the answer to these questions is positive, then I think there is no need for the Commission to discuss these issues more. If that's not in the package, then, gentlemen, we need to open up a democratic dialogue on these issues, which I expected in a parliamentary debate, not just at the College. The Political Affairs Committee's conclusions contained one crucial question that the debate on BiH's accession to European integration should be opened democratically, among all political options, parliamentary groups, and then gentlemen can reach that maximum consensus that is possible in this parliament. So, so much for me as the chairman of the Commission. It's a good thing we have little responsibility for these answers and to the public who's following us, because there's a bit of a dilemma here, yes or no. I want to point out that it doesn't matter if the amendment letter is first or second. In principle, the Commission supported it, unanimously, unanimously, in principle, and I can talk about the support of any material around which a consensus was reached, but if it is not tomorrow, that is, today it means the Paraph of the College, gentlemen, then the resolution cannot, in my opinion, replace the necessary signature of someone in front of this house. It's not his signature. It's our responsibility. Today, we need to accept the assignments that follow us. Thank you and I'm sorry that I may have disturbed...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5397	Thank you, Mr. Amidžić. You've asked some questions. It is quite clear that the resolution allows the chairman of the House of Representatives to sign the letter and I will repeat and remind you that Mr Ljubić said that, when, on behalf of the three members of the College, he submitted the text of the resolution and, apparently, you probably didn't hear that, Mr Amidžić. I don't msiliti there's anything in the matter of the Commission, according to Article 121. Rules of Procedure, no commission. Mr. Buturović Sead and Mr. Banjac answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5398	I thank the respected members of the College, members of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the delegates, I will take this opportunity to submit one initiative, one proposal, and you will hear what this is about. If I speak in front of the club we support the resolution and here I will speak as an MP. BiH is on the path of European integration. The role and importance of national or national parliaments is very high. I will say what we heard at the Second Conference, “The 21st Century Projects, the EU Enlargement”, held on 15 and 16 November. 7 Parliaments must seize power and must not hesitate, they must demand as much interference as possible and thus provide a more democratic way of deciding and influencing national policies on European community policy. Legislative and executive powers in every country must be negotiated, because this is a source of dialogue, not conflict. Using the experience of other European countries to ensure that the more active the role of state parliamentarians, I propose here today, I submit one initiative, that within the framework of the State Parliament, a committee on European integration be established, to which representatives of all parliamentary parties of this Parliament will enter, where decisions on that committee are taken by consensus of all parties. Here, in no case should the role of the opposition be bypassed, and without it, it is impossible to imagine such a process of entering European integration. I will give you examples of us neighbouring countries, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there are committees, which chair, in Croatia Mr Mate Granić and in Slovenia Mr. Lojze Peterle and I are really looking for you and I ask you to seriously consider this proposal. Slovenia has worked more, seven years actively to join the European community and will enter the most optimistic version by 2002, eventually, and until 2004 at the latest. BiH is scheduled to enter 2010. I have to say that some criteria will be easier, but it's time we started working already and we don't expect anyone to accept us and we wait. Thank you, sir. There is one information, I don't know if the club chiefs are before or for MPs, it was agreed today at the Extended College, on a proposal from a tight college to hold a meeting of the Representative's House on November 29th, the topic will be, among other things, BiH's foreign policy. So, let me inform the Members who have not been informed. Mr. Mirko Banjac picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5399	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests, Mr Belkić, colleagues and fellow MPs, I think that the approach chosen is only possible and only valid, because everything else would be a violation of the procedure and of the Rules of Procedure, which would not be good, when it comes to such an important procedure as BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. You all know that the letter is a statement, or a letter of intent, a form of business correspondence, and that's good. It is good that BiH officials, as often as possible, as much as possible, more comprehensively maintain these business ties with the officials and bodies of the institutions of Europe, that this is simply taken down as a famo that BiH will not or can't co-operate and, therefore, I believe that this is a good path and only acceptable and only right. When it comes to this parliament's resolution if he wanted to strengthen his thinking in a political sense, then there is no other document, if he wanted to strengthen his thinking in a political sense, then there is no other document, which is possible, except for the resolution, and look at it in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the resolution provides a framework. The resolution gives space where our officials should move when they communicate in any way with other entities from other countries and institutions. So here and now I would not talk about content, I think our leaders are wise enough politically, tactful, to read that in this resolution they commit to constitutionality and legality, respect for human rights, freedom and therefore I support all those thoughts that speak in the direction of improvement, both human rights and the conditions of life in BiH, from all aspects not to be owed. 8 The SDS Club, not entering the contents of the letter, but entering the contents of the resolution, and supporting the commitment to communicate in such a way, will support the resolution, because it is the only one who can vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5400	Thank you, Mr. Banjac, for fully accurate interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and for the possibility of getting a signature. Mr. Mehtić Halil answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5401	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Mixed Club of MPs, made up of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of BiH, the New Croatian Initiative and the Bosnian-Herzegovic Patriot Party, I express my satisfaction with the agreement reached on the acceptance of obligations, which are put before BiH, by the accession of our country to the VE, with one note. That, perhaps in this document, as in other points, at point and) which speaks of the recovery of refugees and displaced persons and of their sustainable return, it was also necessary to set deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5402	Thank you very much. Mr. Miri Grabovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5403	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of MPs, the esteemed members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the esteemed media representatives, the HDZ Club truly supports this resolution, of course, supports BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, as entering the Council of Europe opens the way to join the Partnership for Peace and then, of course, to the EU. He felt that by entering the Council of Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina, he also got a lot of things in common, not only BiH, but all its citizens and peoples. When it comes to some disagreement as to what the resolution is and how it was, which led to the adoption of the resolution, the resolution strengthened this document and called for Article 121(2). The Rules of Procedure, which states how a resolution can be adopted, but the same Article 121(1) applies when this resolution is adopted and it then has a political character, i.e. the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives, politically expresses the power to enter BiH into the Council of Europe and in some way commits to fulfil all obligations arising from the demands of the Council of Europe. I think it is a disagreement, and even if these disagreements have arisen, it is because of the fact that this foreign affairs commission has not discussed this part, but it has debated the previous, or that the text is, the essence of the text has not been significantly changed, and I do not think that this resolution should be disputed and we will, of course, support the signing of the document of the member of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to sign on behalf of the House of Representatives, that BiH wants to join the Council of Europe. Of course, it leaves the possibility for all of you individually to be represented, this is what Article 122 of paragraphs 1 and 2 tells you that you can submit amendments, given that club presidents have agreed to the text of the resolution, it is assumed that they would shorten that procedure without these amendments, and I think that this resolution is acceptable and it provides everything that is necessary. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5404	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a word? Here you go. Here you go, pal Malkić. You're the only one who answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5405	Dear guests, fellow MPs, come on, I didn't think to answer, but I was asked to discuss Mr Banjac. I have seen it this way, that the signing of this resolution means that the signatories of the statement of the text have the possibility to make further changes in some future time. From that aspect, I cannot then agree with the proposed resolution, which does not say that it is necessary to accept the proposed text as it is on our tables. As for the very text of the statement, I have the following remarks. In the original text of the statement, it was made clear, however, that in terms of strengthening, i.e. the functioning of state institutions, that BiH, or that Parliament will work to form a single army in BiH, is in the vom text, absolutely defined and I ask the question. Who is and whose name he has made such changes possible. Namely, in one of the talks with representatives of the Partnership for Peace, where we should be members, it is clear that BiH cannot join or be a member of the Partnership for Peace if it does not have a single army of BiH. And it is generally known that the Partnership for Peace is one step until the entry into the Council of Europe. Also, while I'm here, I'd like to ask the College, either the chairman or the first or second vice-president to try, to at least reduce the constant derogation, or the humiliation of this home. In fact, last night's statement by Mr. Tokić made it clear that today's session, there is absolutely no need, to see the situation, to accept BiH, or to join the Council of Europe, and even to say that we are putting the additional state at new costs, and in this direction, we have also put the issue of a statement on the acceptance of the conditions concerning membership in the Council of Europe at the meeting today. I have to state that it is nothing more than a public deception and a humiliation of our MPs, because what we know, me and all of you here, this is, however, a regular session and it was planned and beyond this agenda point. With this I would ask, first of all, that the Alliance and the SDP that internal conflicts, namely the struggle for mutual prestige, do not break through parliamentarians, but focus on a single parliamentary policy both at home. I ask of you, first of all, to agree on this issue and at the next item of the agenda, I will also put the personal responsibility of the chairman and his deputies of this House from various delays in these sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5406	Is anyone else answering for word? No, I don't. Gentlemen, we need to make a statement. I don't think we should read the text resolution, you have it in front of you. Mr. Ljubić read it at the beginning. I ask the messengers to plead. 10 Who's for the resolution? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Of the 39 MPs present - 38 votes for - abstention 1. There's no need for an entity vote. Gentlemen, I realize the resolution has been passed. It also allowed the chairman of the House of Representatives to sign a statement. Thank you. The sitting will be led by the first deputy chairman, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5407	We want the Chairman's arm at peace. We're moving on to the agenda. Dear gentlemen, we're moving on to agenda three. Ad.3. Advocacy questions and answers whether or not there are any MPs. Dear Representative Bahrija Osmanović, and let the distinguished representative Mr Grabovac be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5408	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs and all others, the parliamentary question reads: How will the pensioner's problem be regulated, with regard to the delivery of health care, which have made pensions in the republics of the former Yugoslavia or the countries that have arisen? Is it in the plan to enter into interstate agreements to regulate these issues and have contracts with some countries already been concluded?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5409	I thank the honourable representative. The word has a distinguished representative Mr. Miro Grabovac-Grabovac-Titan.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5410	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, my question is to the Federation Government and the Ministry for the Question of the Defence of Homeland Labour of BiH, via the Council of Ministers, which is the procedure, when it comes to the plight of the forwarding of this. Recently, the work material of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Military Disabilities and the family of the deceased defenders has been forwarded to discuss associations of native work in the Federation of BiH and others concerned by this matter, leaving out a category of developed defenders, which should not have been done for security reasons, because we know that just now the unemployed developed defenders are in a very difficult position. Given the security situation, my question is. For what reason did the Federation Government allow its Ministry of Defence and Disabilities of Homeland Work to abandon the category of developed categories and the name of home war and to put such a law into public debate, causing public dissent? takoođer, my second question, it refers to the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation and, that is, the Chamber of Commerce of Entity. You are aware that under an agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and BiH, our country receives a detail of work permits to work in the Federal Republic of Germany. Their distribution is being made by the Council of Ministers, or its RES, I suppose for a civilian, I don't know which one, and you'll know in the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers through the Chamber of Commerce, my question is: How many such work permits were obtained from the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement until 2000? How many were assigned in 2001, what was their distribution to entities? Who distributed it? How many members of the Federation of Croatia and how many members of the Bosniak people have received, and if there is any body, which was accompanied by the structure, in this way by employees, please respond to me. How busy is it, until then, not employees of developed defenders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5411	Thank you, Mr. Grabovac. The word is Mr Miloš Jovanović. Until today's session, two MPs have received answers to the Soviet question, distinguished MPs, Mr Vukić and Mr Cuplov.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5412	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if this is true, I read in the press yesterday, that the High Representative appointed four members of the Permanent Election Commission, those four members who were to appoint this assembly, or this home. I'd like someone to answer me, preferably if they can now, is that true, which is why it's done, and is there anyone responsible for that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5413	Thank you, Mr. Jovanović. Is anyone else answering questions? The word has a distinguished representative, Mr. Boro Bjelobrk.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5414	In accordance with Article 25(h) and (j) and my right under Article 128(3), I shall ask the College, and in particular the chairing of the following questions: 1. When am I going to get an answer, set on May 19th, on information about Banja Luka and Trebinje and the RS Government measure? 2. At the July session, I asked them to put their eyes on the documents that the House of Representatives placed on me? 3. What is your responsibility for applying this job? 12
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5415	I would like to thank the honourable representative, Mr. boriti Bjelobrk. We'll make sure you get an answer. Is anyone else picking up? Since no one's answering, I'm closing the third item of the agenda. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the draft law on the BiH Chamber of Commerce Report you received, as well as a notification by the Chamber of BiH and entity chambers that they had agreed on the amendments. It is an amendment to Article 2.The proposal for a law, the same as was adopted in both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives in the same text, by proposing a new member to the House of Peoples. So, in accordance with Article 65(3), I hereby inform the House that the College of Representatives of the House has reached agreement in the Proposal for a Law on the Foreign Chamber. I agree that the Law on the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH was adopted in the House of Representatives. It's a procedure. We can't give it to you right now, but we'll try until the next session. I think the answer will be more relevant when you get all the decisions of the High Representative and I think the answer will be clear, but I don't think it's a mistake at the House of Representatives, because we didn't get from the commission that we need to propose, that's for starters. Thank you. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. Report by the Joint Commission on the conclusion of an agreement on a single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act You are gentlemen of the MPs, received a report from the Joint Commission of both homes, which agreed on a single draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act. I call on the representative of the Joint Commission to explain the report submitted. Does the honourable representative Mr. Mijatović have a need to explain? There isn't. You've all been given an explanation for what they've agreed on. If there are no objections, I suggest we plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. Of the 35-33 MPs present they voted for – 2 they did not vote at all, so without blasts and abstentions and against, a report was adopted. So we have an external debt, consistent with the text as proposed by the Commission. Thank you. Moving to point six. Ad.6. The proposal for a law on industrial ownership – second reading As you know, this bill was adopted at the 15th session in the first reading. Before that, you have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as well as the report of the Finance and Budget Commission, which is in charge of this law. We've also got amendments coming in this morning with an explanation. This is the procedure laid down in Article 96. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Representative at home. I'm opening a debate. Does the amendment promoter have any needs? 13 No need. In this regard, the essence of these amendments is to improve the text that has been agreed with the Council of Ministers, and since the Council of Ministers cannot be a proposing amendment at this stage, it can be representatives of clubs, so the clubs of representatives – two clubs have taken over to propose these amendments, in accordance with Article 96. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. Is there any need for a concussion yet? Does anyone want to? He doesn't want to. I suggest we make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed amendments? The amendment and specifically. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Abstained — 2. Amendment I was adopted. Of the 37 in attendance, 35 - two abstentions voted. Thank you. Amendment I adopted. I suggest we make a statement on Amendment number II. Who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? – 1 I konstatirati, of the 37 present – 35 for – 1 abstention and I agree that this amendment has been adopted. So Amendment II adopted. We're moving on to amendment number III. Who's in favour? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? - 1. Based on the results of the vote, I find that of the 37 present 36 voted in favour and 1 abstention. So this amendment to Amendment III has been adopted. Thank you. We've completed the stage of the amendment statement. Now we're voting on a full law. I'm sorry. We need one at a time. Amendment IV Who's in favour? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? - 1 I konstatirati that out of 37 votes for 36 and 1 abstention. Amendment IV has been adopted. We're moving on to a statement on Amendment V. Who's in favour? Do you mind? There isn't. The abstentions? - 2 Of the 38 who declared 36 for along with 2 abstentions. Amendment number V has been adopted. We're moving to a statement on Amendment VI. Who's in favour? Do you mind? The abstentions? The vote on amendment number VI – meaning of 38 in favour of 33 – without votes against – with 4 abstentions. So this amendment is also passed and no entity vote is required, if you don't mind. This considered us to have exhausted the vote on the adjudications. 14 I suggest we make a statement about the full law. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that out of the 38 MPs present, 38 voted in favour, means unanimously. Thank you. I find that we have passed the proposal for a law on industrial property. I thank the distinguished MPs for the expedition, and I think it's good to work on this as well, since we're planning on working until 4:00. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. We have an intervention here. In view of today's consensus... the Council of Ministers' meetings that this law should be discussed in a package with the Rebalan budget, at the next session of the House of Representatives, which will be next week. This is what Minister Domazet suggested on behalf of the Council of Ministers and I think we have nothing else to do, but to respect the Council of Ministers' position on this point means to postpone this for the next session. Do you agree? Thank you. We're moving on to...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5416	My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, however, we need to be clear about the procedure under which we will discuss the law proposed by the ministers' flowers, it is about the proposal for a law on the use of property, which BiH received under the Agreement on the issue of the concession in the Banca for International Alignment in Basil, which means that the next sessions would discuss the law, we need to adopt to consider it by an urgent procedure and, in this context, Parliament needs a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5417	I thank the honourable representative, the deputy chairman of Mr. Avdić. Does the Council of Ministers accept the position? That's nice to meet you. So it's a procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the requirement for this law to be considered, in accordance with Article 104, it's an emergency procedure, which allows for the deadlines to be shortened. I'm opening a debate. Is there any need to discuss this position? So there isn't. I suggest we make it clear that we support the Council of Ministers' view that this law is being discussed under Article 104. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? There isn't. The abstentions? There isn't. I agree that by voting we found that the House of Representatives, with 38 votes, accepted the Council of Ministers' position to consider this request as an emergency procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, means in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. Thank you. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. 15 Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the importance of public documents in BiH – first reading Anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers to explain this? There's no need. It's about first reading, it's about the principles and principles on which this law was built and exceeded. Do the gentlemen of the Parliament want to take a word for this debate? We also have two amendments, but since these are principles, we did not plan to cross phase two today – second reading. So the amendments will be treated in the second debate. Does anyone want to sit down today? Well, here's from the Council of Ministers saying there's no need, that it's so clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5418	So if the MPs are looking, it would be good for someone from the Council of Ministers to say a few words. Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-20-0.u5419	There's no need. I suggest we make a statement about this law in the first reading, to support the principles and principles on which this law is based. Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? Based on the results of the vote, I find that the proposal for a law on importance in BiH – first reading – is supported by the principles and principles of most votes. From 38 – 34 voted in favour – 1 MP was abstention. So we supported the law in the first reading. Thank you. I suggest we move to agenda nine. All I ask is peace. I think we'll be done in time. Ad.9. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty – The Railway Reconstruction Project between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Do the representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Commission's representatives want to give a word in this opening presentation? The commission report you got, but if there's a need or if there's a wish. Do any of the distinguished MPs want to discuss this agenda item? He doesn't want to. I propose that we say that we agree on ratification of the loan agreement between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I agree that after the results of the vote, 38 MPs voted 38. Therefore, we agreed to ratify the loan agreement. I mean, we've exhausted the agenda with this, but before the agenda ends, I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate on behalf of all the respected representatives of this house, the distinguished representatives of the Bošnjak and all those who fast the month of Ramadan, and see you next week. The session is over at 3:15.
