ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1121	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys, your Excellencys, honored guests, media representatives, I support you and open the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The sitting is attended by 14 delegates, 4 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Mr. Munib Jusufović, justified the absence, given the obligations, since we have quorum, we can make decisions in full and, therefore, for the 11th session of the agenda, I propose the points you have received. I'll read them. 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. Record of the 9th session of the House of Nations; 3. Declaration on the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the conclusion of a single text agreement (a) Amendments and additions to the Foreign Debt Act, (b) Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH, (c) Act on the Protection of Personal Data 4. Report from the Commission from the Nationals' College on the alignment of the Law on Administrative Disputes in BiH, the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by BiH institutions, the decision to determine the status of the building and land in Sarajevo on the street of Marshall Tito 16 and the Decision on the establishment of the status of the representative complex "Connect" in Sarajevo; 5. A statement on the Council of Ministers' request that the law on the purpose of using the property, which BiH receives under an agreement on the conflict of former SFRY, be considered under Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 6. Law on BiH's Defence – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Statistical Law, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH – First Reading; 8. Law on concessions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First reading; 9. Law on Industrial Property – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 10. The Demining Act in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 11. Consumer Protection Act in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – first reading; 12. Law on copyright and other related rights in BiH – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First reading; 2 13. Law on State Service in BiH institutions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 14. Law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 15. BiH Customs Tariffs – Proposer of the Council of Ministers – First Reading; 16. The loan agreement between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Project for the Reconstruction of Railways – BiH Presidency; 17. Agreement on a development loan between BiH and the International Development Association Project for facilitating trade and transport in Southeast Europe – BiH Presidency; 18. BiH-European Bank Funding Treaty Project for Railways in BiH – BiH Presidency; 19. The loan agreement between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction of the BiH Presidency; 20. Treaty on financing between the European Bank – Project for the Reconstruction of the Electricity System in BiH – BiH Presidency; 21. The agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the German Government on financial co-operation in 1999-2000 – the BiH presidency. The college agreed on the agenda, and I owe a few explanations. The earlier scheduled agenda item, Rebalans Budžeta, which was proposed by the mandated proposing – the presidency, as amended by the 100th amendment, was withdrawn in the procedure and proposed that the procedure be followed by an accelerated procedure and that the College had declared itself and included in the procedure, following the accelerated procedure of adopting the Rebalans of the budget at its meeting yesterday and for this reason we do not have that item of the agenda. I owe you one more note. Today's session is attended by a group of interested citizens, related to copyright law and related rights, which, in accordance with my business procedures, I have approved to attend this session. You've received the text of their address. In the course of the agenda, I will read the text and read it for the public. With this I would like to open a debate about the establishment of the agenda. Is there any new suggestions for the agenda? Mr. Turjačanin, Mr. Novaković, came forward, so I suggest we take that order. Here you are, fellow Turjačanin.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1122	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished fellow delegates and other guests, I suggest point one. Answers to the delegates' questions and delegates' questions, given the intensity given yesterday at the continuation of the 10th session of the House of Peoples, Mr. Chairman, that today, he will seek to provide a representative sample of the Council of Ministers at the session and we see that these benches are empty again. I suggest that this item of the agenda be moved between the last points of the agenda, as the College considers necessary. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1123	Thank you. Is there any other suggestions for changing and supplementing the agenda? Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1124	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I have a proposal that the statistical law and concession law be returned to the commission phase, respecting Article 90. So, according to Article 90(3), which says the House can ask the Commission to draw up a new report, based on new facts within 15 days. Namely, the Commission held its session on 27 this month, which, in which you received the report on 28th, made it impossible for delegates to renew the amendments within the business period, means at 48 hours before the start of the House session. In view of this fact, I propose that, in order not to move the deadlines, the first and second readings are to be merged at the next session, so at the next House session, and so far to allow, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that delegates may declare whether they will renew or not amendments that have not been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1125	Dear colleague Novaković, just to clarify your proposal. The first part of your proposal was referred to as a suggestion to the College, the House of Peoples, to decide that amendments could be made after the end of the business period. According to a member who's been read, the College can and that's a suggestion to the College. As regards the removal of the agenda, it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, since this is a mandatory item of the agenda, which you can be sure of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which specify the mandatory points of the agenda, after determination. We will bear in mind your proposal and before the plea, concerning these amendments, I hope that the College will inform you of your suggestion. Who's next to the word? kolega Špirić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1126	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I thought there would be no need at all to discuss the agenda, but the absence of a representative of the Council of Ministers gives me the right to ask one, I think, an essential question for BiH. Points 16 to 21 concerning the ratification of the agreement, which concern BiH's borrowings, have so far been undetected by both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, but whoever seriously engages in the structure of the entity's budget and in the structure of the Budget of BiH, will come to one conclusion that the service of BiH's external debt, thus serving the total debt, so BiH is already participating more than 15% in the structure of the Budget 4 BiH, which requires a responsible policy of borrowing BiH. That's why I think it would be good, when the ratification of these agreements, we have at least a Council of Ministers rapporteur, who will give us some economic approximation of what this new borrowing means for BiH? How much will they increase the rate of social product growth? How many new jobs will that be? What is the economic boom of BiH that awaits it? This is the analysis, where constantly responsible people in BiH suggest that it is good to discuss that BiH does not have it, etc., but those who are invited to do so, I'm afraid they are not ready or those analyses exist so delegates and MPs do not have them or there are no such analyses, so I would say, we go as geese in the fog. It is good that there are new loans for BiH, that the international community, internationally, I would say, credit institutions have a positive attitude towards BiH in lending, but I would also ask for an active role of domestic authorities in the BiH area. I, therefore, insist that when we arrive at these points of the agenda, we have each item of the agenda of the rapporteur of the RES, or if it is possible to have that analysis, which has simply provided for the conclusion of such agreements so that we can ratify them. I'm not ready in the future, after reading the report on the execution of the Budget and the preparation of the Budget for next year, that as a blind man, I simply verify everything that is said somewhere without valid economic analyses. Economic analyses are things that are missing from BiH. That's what we all keep saying, but there's no persistent analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1127	I thank Mr Špirić, we can take this more as a suggestion in the preparation of the work for which I would be happier if Kolega Špirić, within the College of the House of Nations, had said and responded through the secretary, our esteemed home, to ask the Council of Ministers to be present on these agenda points, and I expect that it is not too late now, that these agenda points are both business points. We have a member of the Bureau here, the Bureau is an official proponent of these ratifications, so this is more of a suggestion on the usefulness of this suggestion we can negotiate on the debate on the agenda, but it does not affect the very structure of the proposed agenda. Does anyone else appear for the word, related to changes and additions to the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1128	The speaker, Mr. Tokić, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1129	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys, I will, at the request of a group of citizens, esteemed artists, cultural workers, celebrities from cultural public life, read the request, as follows, so that it begins. We authors and copyright owners, who, as a creative force, stayed in BiH in order to preserve the specificity of the Bosnian Herzegovic identity, lost our patience, awaiting the adoption of copyright and related rights. 5 Having an understanding of all the difficult things that have happened in our spaces and are still happening, we are finally forced to stand in defense of our own rights because it is about our existence and the dangers of our human and creative potentials. After ten years of harsh abuse of our creation, appeal and cry for such a situation to change, in this way we publicly demand the following: that both houses of the BiH Parliament, immediately and without delay call for an emergency session and by an urgent procedure, adopt the text of the copyright and related law, which has been in the procedure since April 1999. We recall that BiH is a European country in which, without any sanctions, there is rude humiliation and abuse of the work of creators, not only from BiH but from around the world, and for all this reason, there is no valid legal regulation, which would help us all live and work more normally and better. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country with 100% piracy in every way, and that is an alarming data in itself, for example. Only budget losses are already reaching millions, which means that not only do we lose this law but the states, entities, cantons and municipalities, and the creators of such a catastrophic situation, in the area of copyright, go intensively to other countries, or more actively engage in other countries' markets, which have laws in this area. The very fact that creative people go away requires that they stop obstructions in the adoption of this law, which have more and more normal countries and without which we have no chance of being admitted into the family of European countries. Gentlemen, our creative language is universal and does not know the limits of entity or any other, so the area of copyright and related rights is arranged in the rest of the world in the same way. We deserve you to provide us with basic assumptions, and these basic assumptions contain the law, we'll be protected. We believe that after so much waiting, you have at least a moral obligation, because our creation has positively represented you and always represents you in the world. I expect that after our address, representatives in the BiH Parliament are most seriously aware that the charge is to work in the interest of all citizens and the state of BiH. We are prepared, if necessary, to attend every parliamentary debate, in order to help with our contribution as quickly as possible the adoption of the law. Sarajevo, 13.11.2001. Association of Fine Artists of BiH, Association of Fine Arts Artists, Association of Music Artists from BiH, Association of BiH Writers, P. Centre, Association of Film Workers, Association of Music Artists, Association of Artists, Association of Architects... Agency for the Protection and Protection of Copyright. Of course, I didn't read that, to read it by one of the present artists or actors. I did this for security of the business procedure. I think that, as BiH institutions, by putting into the draft agenda today's session of the proposal for a text of this law by the Council of Ministers, we have well started to meet the demands of this group of citizens. Thank you. 6 If no one is answering for a word anymore, I suggest we approach the definition of the agenda. The first suggestion was to change the order of the agenda, to answer delegate questions and delegate questions. Those issues, which were raised yesterday in accordance with the business procedure, were in a certain way saved to one or two of them. I think you've received some of those answers and I see these men from the Council of Ministers, who have informed me that I can give oral clarifications to yesterday's issues or some other questions. So I wouldn't put that agenda off. I'd keep it at this point on the agenda. On behalf of the College, and on behalf of the Commission, I would, on behalf of the College, ask the Commission for, a report by the Commission on the achievement of an agreement on the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act, the Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data from the Third Point of the Agenda, to the position of the 21st Point of the Agenda, and at the same time, in order to ensure the delivery of amendments, I would suggest that the Law on Statistics and the Law on concessions, in accordance with the procedure that, and with the conclusion that all amendments, which were on the Commission, and not accepted on the Commission, are certainly subject to consideration in this House. You will also allow interpretation to be accepted that, if the envoy, the representative, does not give up the amendment, that the tabled amendment is considered to be heading towards the House, until the House rejects it. I think that makes sense. Only if the envoy gives up, then of course he doesn't go to the House for a statement. I think these two points, according to this recommendation, would be the point of the 20th and the 19th points would keep the current agenda. To prepare, possibly amendments for the envoys, who don't have here. Can you accept these suggestions? This is a harmonised position of the College, so that unless the proposings, Mr Novaković and Mr Turjačanin insist, there is no need to vote, but we can immediately vote on the whole of the proposed agenda, which was proposed by the House of Peoples. Who's for the proposed agenda? Thank you. I would ask the services to immediately approach redefining the order of this agenda and to provide the envoys with a revised order of these agenda points. We're going to the 1st item of the agenda. Ad.1. Answers to the delegates' questions and delegates' questions Here is on behalf of the BiH Treasury Ministry, the answer to the envoy's question asked by Mr Novaković. Do you need to comment? We thank the Council of Ministers for a very urgent answer and would like to see the speed of the answer, regarding this issue, continue on other parliamentary issues that I am currently opening. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Džaferović, then Spahić and please continue to answer the word. It would be good for us to stick to business, to make the application for the discussion in writing, so that we can plan the whole work. Of course, including the business opportunity for people to come forward. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1130	Dear colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I announced at the end of the session yesterday that I would be asking some delegate questions. I didn't ask them yesterday because we were at the beginning of that arrangement. Therefore, on the basis of the provisions of Articles 117 and 118. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers the following questions: 1. For what reason has a donor conference for BiH been cancelled? According to what can be heard from the media, as Parliament has not been informed at all, the donor conference has been cancelled because BiH has not met the conditions. If that's true, then I ask. What are the conditions? Who was obliged to fulfill them and within what time. What is intended to be done against those who have failed to meet the required conditions. 2. Who controls the airspace above BiH? Is there a strategy or a defined concept of organisation and air space management above BiH? Is there any conjecture and instruments for the realization of this concept? Are there any material assumptions, therefore, material assets and how much they amount to? Are there human resources and what does it look like in their training and education? For what purpose are the funds already collected, based on over-flight fees, over $4 million? What about the funds so far paid from the federal radar purchase budget? Is that contract broken, and if it is, what are the consequences of that breakup? Why are conditions and assumptions not being created to include schooled flight control engineers at the Faculty of Transport and Communications in Sarajevo in BiH air traffic control institutions? Also, on the basis of the provisions of Articles 118 and 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman of the home in writing, ask a question yesterday and I will not repeat it here today. It's written. In accordance with the provisions of Article 118. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I demand that all three issues be delivered to me in writing, within the deadlines provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I teach you the written form of the questions, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1131	I'd like to remind Mr. Džaferović, an esteemed colleague. Envoys -- delegates are asking questions to the Council of Ministers or any member of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1132	Mr. Chairman, I'm actually getting more degutant, and I'm really bothered by this kind of communication, and I'd ask you to spare me that in the future. I'm being nice in my act, I'm not an accident, this is the first time since I've been an MP, to read the Rules of Procedure, when I'm asking delegate questions, and I'm calling on the Rules of Procedure, and I've said 8 nicely that on the basis of Articles 118 and 122. Rules of Procedure, Rule 122. Rules of Procedure: Extraordinary delegates can ask questions in writing about septic facts and situations and others, not just the BiH Council of Ministers or any of its members. So my question has a business basis, and I've listed it here in writing, and I'm asking you to spare me this one in the future. It doesn't make sense to bother ourselves or our esteemed colleagues or the Council of Ministers or the BH public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1133	I'm thanking you. I don't want any more replicas. Mr. Envoy thinks he's got some groundwork in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure interprets the College of the House of Peoples and we will inform Mr. Džaferović, who is otherwise a professional in this assembly about the possibilities of getting all the data and not of trying to hire the chairman, that he is, as he says, collecting papers and travel reports, some of which have not submitted reports to the committees in charge. So without further ado, I interpreted the Rules of Procedure and it remains so, of course, appreciating the possibility of you staying in your opinion. Whether or not these questions, given that they have been requested in writing, ask none of the council of ministers. Mr. Spahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1134	Madam Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, I would only now take advantage of the opportunity we spoke about yesterday, given that they are present or present, as you love the representatives of the Council of Ministers today and those very ministries, which my questions concern, are repeated on several occasions. I would ask that, if they're ready to answer the questions I'm going to ask right away. I'll do it again. I, in writing, provided these questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I signed those questions, so they wouldn't even explain it afterwards. What I would like to point out in particular is about the first question. Today, I would like to ask Mr Mikerević, Minister of European Integration in the Council of Ministers of BiH, to give us a brief oral information, and after he has given me official - written information on behalf of the Council of Ministers, or his ministry, about what BiH, as co-chair of the II Working Table for Economic Cooperation in the region, has achieved as its interest, economic and political within the Stability Pact, and what BiH can expect in general from the Stability Pact in the area of economic co-operation, particularly those neural issues concerning strategic investments in infrastructure and in general to establish relations in this co-operation. That's the first question. If I didn't keep in line, I'd ask another question. The second question concerns the Ministry of Foreign Trade. There is also a representative of the ministry present. I have sent Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, Foreign Trade Minister and 9 economic relations a letter, a question, and here I think it can be answered. As for the BiH Treaty with Macedonia, and it concerns free trade and everything we have established with other countries in the region and what we intend to establish, that is another issue. I hope a representative of this ministry can respond briefly today. The third question is, concerning the issue of Mr Ante Domazet, the BiH Treasury Minister at the BiH Council of Ministers, and here is a representative of the ministry. I hope that they will be able to answer us briefly, and then I would like to get written information, about the issue of using funds from the succession of the former SFRY and about, of course, the information that we received as MPs through the media. There's no official information except for this law that now goes to another guy we didn't get. That's the third question. The fourth question concerns Minister Mihajlović, which is that the ministry that explained the Law to us was electoral and adopted, gave the information that 35 sublegal acts will be prepared and placed normally in Parliament's procedure in connection with next year's elections, as is known from the media, we receive information that the elections are scheduled on 5 October. We have not received any information from this ministry on what sublegal acts are being done and at what stage and when parliamentary working bodies, in this sense I mean the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is therefore in charge of the Rules of Procedure and also of the House of Peoples themselves, will be involved in the work on these documents. Also, I would ask Minister Mihajlović to give us an answer, in what correlation is the information we receive through the media to prepare the electoral law in the RS entity. As far as I know, we have passed an Electoral Law, which applies to all BiH. It would be good to clarify these things, probably in relation to both the Serbian and the Federation, and in general with these procedures, which will cause our special interest. I think we need to complete 35 sublegislative acts of the Election Law, because it is one comprehensive document, together with the electoral commission, and then we can discuss other stages in BiH. I am so afraid that we will mix speeds and relations in BiH without discussing and adopting sublaws, which allow the law to be implemented next year. And finally, I wanted to draw your attention to one fact, which is related to the legal procedure, coming from the Ministry of Human Rights. I don't know if there's a representative of Krešimir Zubk here, the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. If not, it's a simple question. We have in public opened a debate on respect for human rights and freedoms and, in various ways, you can follow that debate. I wanted, since the Co-ordination Body for the fight against terrorism is not the body of Parliament itself, but is also the Council of Ministers, which has a corresponding ministry. It's the Department of Refugees and Displaced Persons. I would like the Commission for Human Rights, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission to submit a report on a regular basis and in coordination with this coordination body chaired by Mr Ivica Mišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1135	I'd like to ask you, emissary. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1136	... ensures regular reporting on activities in the fight against terrorism and that the BiH Parliament is involved as well as the competent commissions, as we have agreed in the presentation of the chairman, Mr Lagumdžija, and in support of the anti-terrorist programme of the Council of Ministers and all state institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1137	Do we have any written questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1138	I delivered everything, signed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1139	Thank you. I would like the members of the Council of Ministers to speak to the Minister for European Integration, Mr. Mikrerević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1140	Dear Chairman, honourable delegates, I would like to remind you, and on this issue, that the Ministry of European Integration, two months ago, gave you one information on the activities of the Ministry of European Integration, on co-ordination with the Stability Pact and on the implementation of projects from the fast start package. Also, we have provided you with prepared documents for the Regional Stability Pact Conference, held in Bucharest on 25 September and October, respectively. So, I have to say, I just want to point out that this regional conference, too, simply had the task and two main objectives, that all the countries of Southeast Europe, confirm their political determination to further strengthen regional co-operation and, secondly, that the international community supports this process. In this capacity, as co-chair of the Working Table II Stability Pact, we as a delegation have submitted a joint statement by all the countries of the region, stressing the importance of implementing already launched projects from the fast start package, as progress in the implementation depends on further donor support. The countries... felt that the priority in the economic sphere should be infrastructure, which would contribute to better mutual communication between the countries of the Southeast European region, integration and co-operation, then liberalisation of trade and trade incentives, as well as direct foreign investment and development of the private sector. When it comes to the range of that conference, I have to say that we as BiH participated in a total of 2.4 million with 303 million euros, so somewhere at 13.10%. This was related, therefore, to a total of 243 proposed projects for the regional conference, only 27 such projects have passed, three of which are from BiH, and these are projects from the Quick Start Package and 120m euros for the road network, 80m for rail infrastructure and energy, three that participates in 250m euros. 11 So this is where we have to say next. Obviously, BiH has slowed down the implementation of projects from the Rapid Start Package, especially when it comes to energy III and problems related to the formation of a regulatory agency for the transmission of els. Energy. In this sense, obviously, we must make decisions, laws and other acts more and much faster in BiH, so that we stop being an obstacle to the implementation of these projects. Secondly, I must say that tomorrow on the agenda of the II working table, it is precisely an analysis of the progress made in the part of trade liberalisation, as an initiative of the Stability Pact, where all the countries of the region will submit information and, in that sense, identify tasks. At the conference will be chaired by Mr Frabicio... Chairman of the Work Table II and representative of BiH myself as Minister of European Integration, as co-chair of the working table, and Mr Homba will also be present as a special coordinator of the Stability Pact, as well as over 50 different international organisations, institutions and more than 90 participants of the work table II. This is one important thing, tomorrow is one significant event for BiH, and we think that we will really look at all the problems that stand in the way of realising the Stability Pact initiative. In addition to the scope of trade liberalisation, another problem, which we will be dealing with tomorrow, is the question of realising the investment of the compact, also, one of the very important initiatives of the Stability Pact and the scope and results so far of the internal reforms of all the countries in Southeast Europe. I must say that our train towards development, towards the European Union, is late and is very slow moving towards the environment, which should concern all relevant structures in BiH. In that sense, we will also learn lessons from that debate and see how that train speeds up. The third problem we will be dealing with, is the issue of social cohesion, also, one of the very important initiatives from the Work Table II Stability Pact and there is a problem, one of which is that the high rate of unemployment, a very low social gross product on some thousand dollars, per capita, as well as many other negative tendencies, which are present, simply condition social instability and it becomes a dam for the needed reforms internally in BiH. In that sense, and our message from that analysis is likely to be that, apart from our efforts to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, where we still do not have conditions, given our very bad environment, where BiH and almost all the countries of Southeast Europe are still separate to foreign investors. We need to do something that, we're simply becoming attractive to any foreign investment. The fourth issue we will be dealing with tomorrow is the question of energy and all energy choices, where the representatives of Albania, as in charge of this set of problems, will come up with their analyses and develop a discussion based on it, so that we can streamline energy sources, which are a very important factor of development on the ground of Southeast Europe. After these questions and these answers, I am obliged to give you full information, given that in the meantime there has been a regional 12 conferences and results and a conference, and we will also inform you of the results of the work of the II Work Table, which will be completed tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1141	I'm thanking you. I would ask you to, what is the essence of the Parliament's hour, to do so, is the most dynamic part of every session. I'm afraid that if at this rate, the previous two, the one who asked the question and the one who answered it, we won't satisfy it, therefore there is a procedure of written and oral response. The oral question implies the essence of defining the issue. The oral response obliges one who is asked the question to try to answer the question within three minutes. I certainly thank the distinguished Mr. Minister for, indeed, valuable information, and a member of the BiH Presidency, Mr. Beriz Belkić, answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1142	Dear MPs, I will try to respect the presidency's suggestions, I will be very brief. So this is where I went into the function of the proposer for points ood point 13. Until point 18. So agreements and contracts related to the creation of obligations for BiH. For information, the Council of Ministers, at the request of the BiH presidency, has done an analysis to the extent possible in this area at all. Namely, borrowings, etc. They went from different levels, mostly through entities, cantons, municipalities, etc. and the Council of Ministers managed, upon request of the Presidency, to systematise our duties as states, allocating them by entities etc. The Bureau discussed and accepted the Council of Ministers' assessments, which went in the direction that BiH, as a state, had a space and had not crossed the line by the parameters of too much responsibility, which would directly affect its development, although the situation was not, of course, radiant. But I would like to point out next, that the next step requested by the Presidency is to allocate end-users of credit not entities, but entities, which some are able to and repay. However, the state is now returning everything, and this matter should be seen in relation to the overall budget revenues in BiH, not only to BiH, not even to entities, but to include all levels of budgetary revenues in BiH and then to give estimates. So, in one word, Mr Špirić, the predsjendištvo is taking care of. Of course, we would be very pleased to have both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives discuss and keep information about the duties that the Council of Ministers is certainly able to do. So I fully support your interest. I tell you the shortest I can is that the promoters understand their responsibilities and are looking for information that indicates whether or not something can be accepted, but this job needs to be completed together. So, to allocate obligations to the end users. Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1143	I thank the member of the presidency, the esteemed Mr. Beriz Belkić. From members of the Council of Ministers, in answer to some questions, we have Mr. Imamović. Here you go, Mr. Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1144	poštovati predsjendištvo, respected MPs, in the shortest possible respect for the Law on the use of funds from a succession, the process is open, and I suggest that perhaps, in the context of the debate, if I should give some arguments, if we consider it necessary. If not, we will have additional information within this point that we do not waste time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1146	Dear Presidency, gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Spahić's question at what stage, or why no free trade agreement with Macedonia has been concluded, as with other countries in the environment. You know that BiH has concluded contracts with Croatia, Slovenia, that there is now intense negotiations in the phase and we hope to create a contract on the same basis with Yugoslavia. An initiative to sign the contract, contained on the same principles and on the same basis with Macedonia, was launched a year ago. A month ago, the Republic of Macedonia responded to our initiative and proposed text, requiring, in its letter, that, practically, all goods, which could be carried out from BiH, which have the origin of BiH, were practically exempt from free trade, or that they would be burdened in Macedonia with certain customs duties, which could not then be subject to free trade. In light of this response, we expect in early January, that it will sit again between the foreign trade ministry and the ministry in charge of Macedonia and will try to bring together different positions, i.e. different attitudes, around this matter, and I hope that we will continue the talks and that we will successfully bring them in, which is certainly the interest of all the republics, above all BiH, because we have once lived in one economic space of compatible economies and sure that free trade can contribute significantly to intensifying economic activity in all these areas.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1147	I'm thanking you. Mr. Lovrić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1148	Honorable Presidency, esteemed MPs, I'm here for a question about sublegal acts related to the Electoral Law. So, a written response will be given, but the basic information to be given here is the jurisdiction of the institutions to adopt these sublegal acts. As for the Council of Ministers, which is not responsible for the adoption of acts, neither are the ministries, but entities are obliged to comply with their electoral laws, with the passed electoral law in BiH within 45 days, and the electoral commission is obliged to pass these sublaws. Now that I don't list them, you're going to get an answer on all these things about the constitution and regulation of different procedures from the middle, or central electoral list and everything, so that's the commission's activity, it's all going to be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1149	Thank you. Whether esteemed counterpart Spahić is satisfied with the answers. Thank you. Mr. Ilić came forward for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1150	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I will open one question, which, perhaps for all BiH officials, may be unpleasant. So I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman, if I step over for a second three minutes so he doesn't mind, because I haven't asked any delegate questions so far. The one I asked at the 4th session, I haven't got an answer yet, so I was thinking maybe I'm never asking any questions. The issue is unpleasant because BiH officials, according to laws, which suggest or impose on us, are related, as if it were a sacred letter and not to be touched. Namely, the direct reason to ask this question is that I was visited last night by a group of doctors, who should be kicked out of their apartments, who were legally given the medical facility they were working in. He's referring to doctors in RS. So in 92 years, the doctors of Srbin left these apartments, and instead the hospital legally assigned them, according to legal procedures, to other doctors who needed them so that the hospital could function normally. The law on the termination of the application of the Act on the Use of Abandoned Assets is imposed on one OHR provision, that, where housing law is equated with ownership law. Now it's my question. Whether the Council of Ministers, the BiH presidency and OHR, are aware that the provision, which makes it equal in the law mentioned above, is a violation of property rights, is the only 15 owners of social property apartments, which are enterprises and institutions, which have bought or built for their workers. What do they intend to do to protect this right and are they aware that this provision has been used for malfeasance and obtaining legal benefit? What's this about? These gentlemen who left in '92 went to Yugoslavia or to another country, got a job there, settled their tenancy issue, and, by this law, appeared to be, with a request to return to them. They will buy this apartment nicely and sell it and take it against the legal means of society, and these doctors, who normally work and who have received that apartment in legal procedure, will go to the street and, of course, it happens to them now every day. Is it known to the international community, i.e. the OHR, that this law has prompted corruption, which, here, we all seem to be fighting declaredly in this country, because all these institutions and officials, who are involved in the realisation of these rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1151	I would really warn you, if you didn't comment on the question and don't use the envoy's question, to show your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1152	That's Mr. Tokić, this is an explanation of that question and I'll write it down to make it clear, what it refers to. So these officials are being bribed to implement this right as soon as possible, and in this way, it is clearly unconscious, this provision encourages what we all fight against, which is abuse and corruption. So, this question, how right it is, is so morally and I ask the gentlemen of the competent institutions to see what can be done that one injustice, which has tried to correct and which was obviously the intention of this law, which is why I also supported it in the RS, is done on the other hand by other injustices, and whether this declarative commitment to fight corruption and crime, in this case would be prevented, so that this law would be applied selectively and given the possibility to those organisations, businesses and institutions, which in a legal way, granted to their workers apartments to keep these dwellings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1153	I thank Mr. Ilić. The gentleman will deliver it in writing. The issue is addressed to the Council of Ministers and we can expect a written reply from the Council of Ministers. Mr. Špirić picked up the phone. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1154	Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, will, in the course of my business time, have two questions. First, when the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency will decide on a new schedule and the seats of different agencies at BiH level, it will show in action that it is developing a concept of decentralised BiH. Let me just remind you that all the agencies that have been formed since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement have been located in Sarajevo. This is the Agency for Banking, Audit, Demining Agency, C..., Institute of Veterinary Affairs, Agency for Promotion of Ino Investments, Institute for Standardisation and Measurement, Institute for Accreditation, Statistics of BiH etc. A parliamentary debate has been held on several occasions. The conclusions of the Council of Ministers, unfortunately, have not been obtained by any legal project in the process, where it says that the headquarters of a new institution belonging to BiH is located, for example in Banja Luka in Mostar, which is not necessary in the daily service of BiH's vital institutions, so there are and I think that this would relax some political tensions, which are a hindrance to better bargaining in BiH. Second question. I ask the Council of Ministers for information on the national structure of BiH institutions, as it is also part of the constitutional obligation, but it would be good if after five years we had one full information about all institutions. So, second question, the council of ministers. Thirdly, as for the degree of responsibility and responsibility of BiH, I was not interested in allocating the debt, but I am interested in the expected effects of the borrowing. So, how much will it affect the rate of growth of the social product, the employment rate, the favourableness of the BiH foreign exchange balance. I'm afraid, as long as the users are located, the debt will surprise us all. Here I am prepared to take all these analyses, which exist with the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to swallow without reporting and to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1155	Thank you, Mr. Špirić will deliver it in writing. I, as chairman of the last time, point out that it implies it at a session rather than... here you go. Dear Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1156	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked a delegate question here yesterday, I asked it 21.6.2001, so 28.11. So I asked it yesterday, for the reason that it should be prepared today and given the answer, and here I will ask it again, and now I would ask, since there is also a member of the BiH presidency, it is a social security agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. Since this law regulates matter, which is essential for most people in BiH, I would ask you to give an answer to the fate of this agreement or if anything else, I think there is a meeting in Zagreb soon, and please really know the fate of this agreement. I'm talking for one more reason. Today, in order for certain rights to be exercised in the Republic of Croatia, we must come from the territory of the whole of BiH, practically, that many documents are coming and 17 are being obtained in Sarajevo. That's what it costs. I think this law would solve both health care and insurance and certain natural givings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1157	Thank you. The Council of Ministers, Mr Lovrić and then Mr Imamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1158	As for the answer to this question and the status of the social security agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. So, this contract, it's already had a long one chronology of events and, therefore, it was signed on 4.10.2000. He passed both of Parliament's homes and was ratified in the presidency. It was also ratified in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. These days, what is relevant is that a letter has been sent on the exchange of ratification instruments, after which, within a certain period of one month, indicatively or, depending on what agreement this instrument is in force. So, as far as the contract is concerned, it's published with us, everything's fine, so it's expected to exchange ratification instruments and enter into force of the contract and beyond that all these rights go and it's certainly a great interest in this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1159	Thank you. Mr. Imamović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1160	In the shortest I will try to answer two questions relating to the BiH institutions asked by Mr Špirić, and it is indeed in the shortest. The need for the development of BiH institutions is in vain. The Council of Ministers pays special attention to the project. As part of this overall project, initiatives were launched to assess optimal spatial and personnel solutions, a three-minister working group was formed, which will propose realistically and optimal solutions within a very short time period, and that will then be a certain way of responding to Mr Špirić. Second, about creating an external debt. The Council of Ministers formed a council or commission on external debt. The commission has been operational and will propose the basics, which will be practically based on research and economic analyses, as part of the 2002 budget projections. The basis for BiH's possible borrowings in the coming year and in the coming period. We haven't had these bases so far, and that's what's new in the whole process, and that's why we've come into a situation where, on a series of levels and on a series, I say and the different resolutions create responsibilities that aren't based on the real borrowing plan of BiH, but the assessment is that we haven't exceeded the measure, here's to sum it up in the shortest sentence. So, as part of the 2002 budget projections, there will be a special booth, called an assessment of BiH's possible borrowing in the coming year and the effects of borrowing. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1161	Thank you. Mr Špirić has a comment on the answers, with what I would really ask, given that a written reply is sought that at this stage, perhaps there was no need to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1162	Of course, I had a written answer. I thank Deputy Minister Imamović, but I don't think I'm looking for a basis, which will sort of be an answer. The Council of Ministers probably has different bases that will translate into response, and that's what I've been looking for, and we don't think we've gone too far. It's not an answer to the parliamentary question. The measure can be a kilo, it can be a KM, it can be a social participation, and I'm interested in what it is, if it can be an answer. How much of BiH's debt participates in BiH's social product? How much is he in? If 60% didn't exceed the measure, then I don't know if we're going to have this borrowing rate in five years to come to our complete creation of a social product going to pay off our external debt. It's my serious warning, and whether it's going to happen or not, it's a matter of the executive authority to control it. Thank you very much. So, I insist on a written answer, not on some of the bases that I would possibly be able to use for an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1163	Thank you. If there are no more questions, I would like to thank you for this hour and ten minutes of MPs. I would especially like to thank the Council of Ministers, who tried to clarify with their answers, give information on the issues of MPs and would certainly thank the honourable member of the Presidency, Mr Beriz Belkić. With this, we have exhausted the first item of the agenda, and I hope that the next points of the agenda, the next parliamentary issues, will be better asked from the aspect of the instructions that are clearly in the Rules of Procedure, from the aspect of written replies and, indeed, will be used to obtain information and less for discussions, which can be included in a specific way as legitimate parliamentary initiatives and as specific points of the agenda. Thank you again. Ad. 2. Do any of those present at the session, at the 9th session, change of allegations, remarks? If there isn't, I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who is for the adoption of the Charter of the 9th Session of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? I find that the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been unanimously adopted. 19 Ad.3. The Commission's report to the People's House on the alignment of the law on administrative disputes, the law on registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions, the Decision on determining the status of the building and land in Sarajevo on the street of Marshall Tito and the Decision establishing the status of the representative complex "Connect" in Sarajevo as regards the law on administrative disputes, you received information, the report, reached agreement within the House of People's College and you take that into account. As for the report on the effort to reach agreement on the Decision to determine the status of the building and land on the street of Marshall Tito 16 and the “Connac” complex in Sarajevo, Street Bistrica 6. As well as the law on the registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions, no agreement has been reached, so we need to approach the declaration in accordance with the envisaged business procedure. We plead to the entities in a way that's against them. Who is against, I am talking about a report on an effort to reach agreement on the decision to determine the status of building and land in Sarajevo. Who's against it? I find that 5 MPs voted against, which is why we can find out from business that the law is not, that is, that the decision, that is, not adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Law on registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions. Please, emissaries from the RS entity who's against? - Five envoys. I find that the law on the registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions has not received the necessary majority and has not been adopted in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So we exhausted the third item of the agenda. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. A statement on the BiH Council of Ministers' request that the law on the purpose of the use of property, which BiH receives under an agreement on the former SFRY succession issue, be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly Do the representatives of the Council of Ministers need to address this House with an explanation for the request of this procedure? If there are no questions, I suggest we plead. So, we only decide on the procedure. Who is in order to make a positive statement on the statement, the Council of Ministers' request that the Law on the use of property in BiH be obtained under an agreement on the succession of the former SFRY, under Article 99. It's a shortened procedure, which involves shortening the procedure, please make a statement for the record? Unanimity. Therefore, all 14 envoys supported the Council of Ministers' request that this law be considered under this procedure by Article 99. This implies reducing the procedure to half seven plus 15 days – 22 days and the possibility of this law being found at a decision in this high house 21. 20 The Law on Defence – the first reading was on the 10th session Second reading in accordance with Article 91. The Rules of Procedure consist of a debate and a vote on the proposed amendments. Eight amendments were submitted by a delegate, Mr Nikola Špirić. Who answers for a word, for a debate. Mr. Špirić. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly repeat my position that it is an important law and I think it would be good for today's debate to result in the adoption of this law on BiH's defence. The intention of my amendments is to bring the law into shape to be as good and consistent as possible. So there are no political stories in these amendments about entities, central authorities, etc. but simply the amendments are on the line of technical grooming, and there is, of course, that part of the essential amendments, which is consistent with certain principles. I would also like to draw your attention that one of my amendments was adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that text of the law should have been an integral part of this material, which you have. Therefore, the amendment adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission should be contained in the text of the law that we have. This is still an emergency for the service and I suppose it is very difficult for delegates to monitor what has been adopted and it will be very difficult and complicated, complicated to monitor what will be published in the Official Messenger. Let me remind you, this amendment, which was adopted and Amendment II, which says that Article 3 adds: “In the course of the election of lawyers, deputies and assistants, the balance of representation and consistency of the people of BiH will be taken into account. The function of the Advocates shall be subject to rotation between the Advocates and the two Deputys, appointed from the Order of the Constitutional Peoples at the same intervals during the term of office." So it's an amendment that's an integral part of this text, and you don't have it in the electoral sense. Now I'm going to try to explain these amendments to you that I have. I think it's about the amendments that are in the laws that we've already adopted, so I don't see any reason to adopt the amendment and this law. I insist that in Article 1 of the word “its”, add the words “the constitution of established competences”, which, of course, prevents different interpretation and politicisation of the legal project, because Article 1 says that it would provide the possibility for the BiH state to have effective legal protection and representation in terms of its protection, I add “the Constitution of established competences” and this text remains the same. Amendment II In Article 4 instead of the word “Secret Council”, the words “Presidentship”. So this is about an amendment in which, instead of the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction, these powers are placed in the power of the Presidency, given that the Council of Ministers falls under this control. I think it would be better for the Bosnian Herzegovina practice to fall under this control. I think it would be better for Bosnian herbic practice to simply regulate the legal system by vertical means. Of course, it's my sighting. I'm not a champion. I accept that there are different opinions, but here's the second amendment. 21 Amendment III In Article 7(c) instead of the word “The Council of Ministers” to enter the words “The Presidency”. So, it is now this amendment, that I spend two on verticals, wherever the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications is mentioned, the presidency is put. Amendment V Amendment V is, is also the logic of this amendment. Instead of saying “The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications”, enter the words “the BiH Presidency”, because here is an unacceptable tendency of the promoter to bring the Ombudsman’s institute into a more addictive position, according to the authorities of the executive government, so that in this case, not even the Council of Ministers decides, but, in particular, the minister, who, by the way, has no clear authority for these types of cases, and I think this is more appropriate to the Presidency. Amendment VI to point 1 of Article 13. I suggest that it be changed and said: “Here I am going to say what point 1 of Article 13. The Attorney General shall take legal actions and means to perform the functions referred to in point 2 of this Article, on his own initiative. I propose that this point be clearly defined, also not subject to different political interpretations, to say the defence body is doing the tasks of legal representation of the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and other bodies of BiH institutions in the further text of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in front of BiH courts. I think this is a clear positioning of this member, disabling double interpretation and politicization of the members. I think that Article 13 here by the Attorney General, who takes legal action and means to perform the functions set out in point 2 of the article and on his own initiative, opens up possibilities for different interpretations, which is not good, of course, for a legal project. Amendment VII in Article 13, delete points 8.9 and 10. Explanation. BiH's defence stands for the protection and representation of BiH institutions before the BiH court, entity and other courts. The subject of this law, therefore, cannot be the representation of the entity or district of Brcko, even at their request, since entities have their own defences and their respective obligations under those defences. So, according to BiH's defence, it would, of course, lead to a conflict of jurisdiction. Accordingly, points 9.10 and 11. I propose that they be deleted because they refer to this fundamental amendment and, amandman vi in Article 14. The words “The Council of Ministers” replace the words “Presidency”, corresponding to analogies from previous amendments. So what I'm saying clearly is, this is about two different concepts. I don't insist that this concept, instead of the Council of Ministers, be the Presidency and I think it's more logical and supportive, of course. It's all one thing. My view is that this is better to be the presidency's ingenuity, but I think Article 1.6 and 7. that amendments, which I would ask for your support, so that this simple legal project can be decidently and seriously interpreted and not subject to different political interpretations. These are the amendments I insist on. Thank you very much. 22 I thank my esteemed colleague, Nikola Špirić, for the explanation of the amendments he submitted according to the envisaged procedure, in accordance with the Psolnik of Amendment I after the argument, I am opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The amendment and I'm opening a debate. Does the Council of Ministers have a position on the amendment and the Council of Ministers? There's no Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Divkovic has come forward for his word on the amendment and on behalf of Mr. Divković. Here's your esteemed colleague, Divković. So it's about...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1165	Mr. Chairman, I will tell you about these concepts of what Mr. Špirić was talking about. It is, indeed, two, I would say concepts, when it comes to this bill, which is whether the presidency will be an organ that will appoint or be a Council of Ministers. I would, given that it is fundamental, say the definition of a series of amendments that have been tabled here. I would very much like the Council of Ministers to plead on that position, given that in their proposal for the law, they went on a proposal to be the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1166	Thank you. The Minister, Mr. Mikerević, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1167	Mr. Chairman, respected delegates, I have a proposal that, as it is a matter of concept differences, that this law, possibly, be adopted and that you hear our official position, we would pray, if it is possible for these amendments to be given in writing so that we could, within one and a half hours, be able to express ourselves, the position of the Council of Ministers. It would be good if you could restructure the agenda, so that we could get out of this, with the Council of Ministers' position, given that it is the legislator of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1168	Whether the amendment's proposer considers it meaningful to wait for the Council of Ministers' statement and whether it may affect the position of the motion to withdraw or not to withdraw the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1169	I think that in any case, given that Bosnia and Herzegovina would need laws that would apply to the Council of Ministers having a position. So I'm not the ultimate performer. So it's two concepts. It seems to me that this one would be a more passing, 23 better, clearer definition. I consider the torment and the Council of Ministers when there are legal proposals in one way or another. I won't mind if I keep this principle, simply to assess whether it's better or not. But these amendments, for example, are not related to the concept, not to the concept, but to the clarification of the text. I don't mind, I'd like to say that the Council of Ministers pleads, if it takes an hour and a half, I think we can approach the plea at the very end of the agenda. It would be very important for us to come to a concerted position here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1170	Mr. Halid Genjac called for a hearing. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1171	I have one suggestion. One number of public workers, so to speak from culture, art is present and awaiting its agenda. I think it would be useful and rational to regulate the copyright act in the meantime while the Council of Ministers' position is awaited. As delegates, it certainly ends today all the points of the agenda and absolutely irrelevant in any order. And I think these people who probably have important jobs would be useful to save some time.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1172	I'm thanking you. I think this is a very useful suggestion, but what was an objective place when we determined the order of the agenda so sorry that for business reasons we can't consider it. As far as the Law on the Defence is concerned, does anyone else report on Mr Špirić's amendments to conclude the debate, and we can certainly postpone the statement. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1173	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will point to one thing that happened on the Constitutional Affairs Commission, namely the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it was accepted, the truth beyond my will, but this is most of the votes of the amendments, which say that the functions of the Advocates and his deputies will periodically rotate. I just want to, I will vote for this law, this law is needed by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I just want to warn that the principle of rotation is contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's just for a little while to abuse the pay phone, so I'm back on the discussion from last session. When it comes to Mr Špirić, Mr Špirić insists on how much I could understand Amendment I, Amendment VI and Amendment VII. Other amendments concerning how he says the concepts leave him to assess the Council of Ministers. I think these other amendments concern concepts, too. 24 The amendment I to Article 1 is introduced a certain kind of how to say without using a difficult word, a certain kind of confusion in a raciolegis in a legal sense, in the sense of this law. Article 1 of the current text says – in order to ensure that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has effective legal protection and representation in terms of the protection of its interests, there is an emphasis on this, so its interests and rights are established by the Ombudsman's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the follow-up text of the Ombudsman. The amendment proposes that the text is now, please – if the amendment is included in the article, then a member would read like this – in order to ensure that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has an effective legal protection and representation with regard to the protection of its respective powers, interests and rights, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General shall be established in the follow-up to the text of the Ombudsman. The text of the Constitution of the designated competences is a completely excessive text, as it is not an emphasis on protecting the Constitution of established competences but on the interests and rights of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Amendment VI to Article 13 suggests that the Advocate's Office should therefore be amended to amend Article 13(1). Paragraph 1 of Article 13 reads - according to the zakon of Law, the pravobranilatšvo General shall carry out the tasks of legal consultation and legal representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in front of all legal bodies, in front of all legal bodies. The amendment proposes that, instead of this text, the text reads as follows - the defence is doing the tasks of legal representation, so now it lists the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we stand there immediately. So we will continue, and the text here says it represents legal consultation and legal representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law speaks of the state, and the amendment speaks of the institutions of the state. That's a big and huge difference, then. And now we're moving on. So the other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the amendment says before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Be careful, before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the law says before all legal bodies, representation, consultation and representation in front of all legal bodies as the law says, and Mr Špirić suggests that it be only before the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one reduced, completely reduced role of the Attorney General and a reduced definition of the entity to be represented by the Advocate General by this amendment. And Amendment VII in Articles 13, to delete points 8, 9, 10 and 11, Mr Špirić suggests that any practical link between the defence of the state and the representation of entities in certain situations which are therefore possible is simply excluded from this law. So here's to read you 8, 9, 10, and 11, so it's proposed to delete. Point 8 says the pravobranilaštvo's office may also represent Bosnia and Herzegovina's entities, the Federation and the Republika Srpska, in the text of the entities and the Brcko District of Bosnia and Herzegovina before foreign courts. So Bosnia and Herzegovina's international subjectivity to foreign courts, arbitration, tribunals and other foreign state bodies and organisations. These amendments for the above reasons are unacceptable to me. I support the text of the law even though it entered it against the constitutional 25 provisions on the Constitutional Commission, because we need that law. The kind of text that came from the Council of Ministers, and I won't vote for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1174	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? Sir, dear colleague Ibrahim Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1175	Is the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Tokić and the others all respected, ladies and gentlemen above all. Now I'd just like to say next. I have carefully served the argument at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of Mr Špirić on his amendments, as well as the other members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and we have made it clear that, with this amendment which Mr Špirić has rightly indicated, I do not know why, because of the service or someone else incorporated into the Bill's proposal, we remain with the appropriate institution, in this case the Council of Ministers and the Ministry, because we felt that it was really a conceptal difference. If we were to postpone the discussion of the agenda, as proposed to declare the law and recommend to the Council of Ministers that it is now considering whether it will qualify for one or another concept, I would just like to say that I do not believe that some law is done without a concept. That would mean that an hour and a half, two or five in the course of one day could change the concept of a legal solution and that in that context it would be amazing that I am a proponent to completely change the concept of the law and come with a position that it would be good to get that thing back to square one now. In that sense, in the position in which we are located, it would always be in certain situations. But it's a good thing that I don't trouble the fact that the law has to have a concept, so it has to have its members, etc. I would like to welcome the willingness of Mr Špirić, in which he announced that because of the meaning of the Law on Defence, which has been discussed in our commission, and today in the same way as Mr Špirić, who normally as a man with integrity remains with his amendments, I think it is quite right that he stressed his willingness as a delegate to support this solution, which only the Council of Ministers gave. I think it's very good, it creates a climate in which we could come to today's plea and the adoption of the law on defence. So, now as a delegate, I would like to say, given that the Commission has submitted its report and that I cannot amend the Commission's report, and as a delegate, I can say that my participation in this debate on the proposal to postpone the statement in relation to the Council of Ministers' provision as a proposal relating to the concept or conceptual approach of this law is so that I find it very difficult, by my conviction, to find an adequate explanation for the change in the concept of the legal act here itself, and therefore I would rather be willing to make it clear now in this part of the agenda. If, however, Mr Špirić's argument with the Council of Ministers' representative, the conceptual argument prompted 26 to say the need for them to review the concept of the law, then they should be explicit. So it is not just about the amendments, because it is quite clear that it is about the concept that the Council of Ministers is withdrawing the law until it clarifys its position in relation to the concept of the law. It's a very different matter than the process of declaration. So it's not a formal question we want to make clear or we won't. And I'm asking you to say in that sense why you're looking for a time car. Because of the concept, or the amendments that talk about the concept. If it's a concept, then it would be one for me... in which the promoter accepts, of course, the arguments put forward and we'll see how the result of the discussion will be further.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1176	Thank you. I remind you we're discussing amendments. With all their wishes and those who have thought to be able to discuss Mr Špirić's amendments to the Council of Ministers' position, I would remind that the amendments in the procedure have been very long, that the representatives of the Council of Ministers have been on the Commission, but this does not disturb the possibility of us making one conclusion that, not to extend the point, but merely a statement. But about that after. I would ask you, at the same time, to make it very clear that there is no possibility that the Council of Ministers withdraws nor the opinion of the Council of Ministers obliges anyone in this home from the aspect of the formal business procedure. I understand and understand that commitment, as well as the proposal made by the Council of Ministers, may affect the fact that it may give up some amendments and the envoys to make a different statement. But these are things you wouldn't be in the debate right now. Should we finish the debate on the amendments, so on concrete amendments, does anyone else come forward for a debate on the amendments? If there is no debate, I would only ask the promoter to plead, possibly answer questions and take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1177	Ladies and gentlemen, I belong to that circle of delegates that appreciates the work of the Council of Ministers and is ready to say how they see it. I'm not a delegate who appreciates class, doesn't appreciate class. It's very important what the Council of Ministers thinks, and it doesn't matter what phase the law is in, and it doesn't matter what time it is at all. I don't think that's good. The other thing is, I'm glad Mr. Džaferović was specific. He is a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and has said which amendments he has objections to and he thinks these amendments are fundamentally what I do not dispute. But it seems to me that me and Mr. Džaferović have two different texts of the law. And this may not be the first time in Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary practice. I would ask Džaferović to read article 13 of the original law and let me read it. Nowhere have I come across what Džaferović reads publicly in my text. What does Article 13 say?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1178	I would only ask you a discussion. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1179	Please, the answer is.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1180	Mr. Špirić, we'll take a break. Mr. Špirić, you're looking for a five-minute break with Mr. Honored colleague Džaferović, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1181	No, I'm not. There's no need. We'll keep going. I just want to find a solution. The law I have written in Article 13. – The Attorney General shall take legal actions and means to perform the functions referred to in point 2 of this Article and on his own initiative. I don't have any of these supplements I've heard from Džaferović. So I don't have that text that Džaferović read. I have this text. I'm asking that that member, is different texts, are.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1182	I'm taking a break. Please, I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1183	Look what's happening to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1184	I'm taking a five-minute break so we don't make a pay phone clear. Here you go. It's a five-minute break, and I'm asking you to inform me that the ambiguities related to the course of the debate are the clarification, that is, about these texts. Mr. Špirić would beg to continue his discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1185	I'll be brief, of course. A little misunderstanding. It's just, I'm bound to say the same text. We read the same text Mr. Džaferović and I had before me point 13 of Article 13, and the amendment is at point 1 of Article 13. What I want to say, and about amendment I -- the same text about this law has been adopted by the Law on Administrative Disputes. I see no reason for any mention of constitutional jurisdiction under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina to interfere with the legal text regardless of the legal matter. It is, of course, my personal position, and part of the legal projects that were adopted with such a defined amendment. That's why I don't see any reason to disturb this law, and I don't mind the law in administrative disputes, so I'd like you to level these legal projects. 28 The second point of amendment VI, I will not now enter into the concepts of this amendment whether the Council of Ministers or the Presidency, to facilitate the procedure of the debate of Article 13(1), is amended and reads - point 1 in the original law - the Law of Law does the tasks of legal counselling and legal representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina before all legal bodies. It's the original text. I propose that it be – the defence body performs the tasks of legal representation of the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other bodies and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So all other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in the follow-up to Bosnia and Herzegovina's courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this clarification is not changing the concept by my seeing or the essence. And Amendment VII, point 9, 10 and 11 is required to be deleted. He asks to be deleted because the text is confusing and unclear. What does the text mean? In the event that the Advocate's Office should represent parties whose interests are in the opposite, and none of these parties are from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ombudsman will represent no party, and it concerns the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman. There are international arbitration courts and everything about this isn't about the D.A.'s office. So for these reasons, I suggest that the text be deleted, and something bothers me with the institution or I don't know what else. So, I'm willing to support this law with these amendments, not getting into the concepts of things that should level the Council of Ministers. If the Council of Ministers thinks he can wait for an hour, an hour and a half for his view of the amendments, I'm ready to wait and delay only a plea. If you're willing to make these three amendments, or if the delegates are ready, you think they're too much of an amendment to adopt them, I'm ready to vote right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1187	This relationship to me will be the best sign of my relationship to the definitive legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1188	I thank you for your discussion with Mr. Špirić. I am concluding the debate over the amendments submitted by Mr Špirić to the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the course of the debate, initiatives have emerged, so the debate was concluded to wait for a written opinion and a position on the support or non-support of these amendments by the Council of Ministers before the statement. Whether the envoys agree to extend the declaration on the amendments by an hour and a half, which means at half past two to get the opinion of the Council of Ministers by then. If we don't get the Council of Ministers, we don't have business procedures to stop the plea. 29 Do you agree with this conclusion? As far as I can tell, no one's protesting. I am concluding the debate, and the agenda item will definitely be completed with a statement and a vote on Mr Špirić's amendments, noting that you have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and that, of course, it means that the adopted amendment is an integral part of the text and that we ask the service to try to obtain consolidated texts with the integrated amendments at the House session. The next item of the day is Ad. Six. Industrial Property Act Proposer of the Council of Ministers, first reading. First we have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded, Article 90. The commission report you received. Who's answering for a word? Does the Council of Ministers have any comments? Is anyone answering for a word? Here comes Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1189	Ladies and gentlemen, so we don't come to an almost identical situation in the second reading about legal projects that are in the first reading. I insist on all legislative projects where, after the commission phase, I have submitted amendments to the House of Peoples to be forwarded to the Council of Ministers and that by the second reading we get the position of the Council of Ministers. So for all the amendments. I have information that a good part of these legal projects that have been agreed from a set of laws on the road map has been agreed on at different levels of inter-entity central authorities, etc. In order not to be double, so to avoid double interpretation, I think it's very important that we support today in the first reading of the proposals of these legislative projects without the amendments me explaining today. So, I ask the legislator to have in mind this amendment and that if he believes that certain amendments can find a place in the text of the law that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly informs until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1190	I thank you for these suggestions, but again draws out a place where the Council of Ministers should present an opinion on the amendments and where the impact is in principle a commission. So we don't fall into a trap to ask the Council of Ministers for an opinion in the final phase of the House, which doesn't bother, but we shouldn't introduce such a practice. If it's exceptional, something doesn't bother you. Mr. Ilić answered his word, then Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1191	I just wanted to ask you something -- what does it mean here -- I have amendments here that say that all amendments are in line. [[speaks from place]] 30
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1192	This one I'd like to ask you. You got that as information. In the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no co-ordination committee, if you are interested in some methods of working our executive structure of government, we can do so on parliamentary issues, but I would ask you who is reporting for a word in accordance with Article 90 for the text of the law. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1193	I would just like to point out a few facts as the law is in the first reading would not enter the amendment section that we will have the opportunity to discuss in the second reading. But I want to say a few items. The first that the Commission had discussed, meant for financial and administrative issues, it discussed amendments received under this law and that one of the fundamental issues was the possibility of forming entity exposures of institutions not supported by the Commission, which is therefore possible under the Law establishing the Institute for Standards of Methology or Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since this law allows this problem to be solved in such a way, it remains a matter of principle, why does the Commission not accept such amendments? It is also a matter of principled recognition of the rights already accepted, or registered with entities that exist and which, according to the amendment's proposal, will continue to exist. At the same time, it means that when a check of these already realised rights is foreseen, the rights of the Federal Institute for the patents of the former Yugoslavia are accepted, which are resolved in accordance with this law around the institute. I don't think those are logical things and that we should take care of them in the future. What's still interesting here is the fact that we have and that the text of the Industrial Property Act has been brought into line. I have here a letter from Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović, in which the amendments to the Bill on Industrial Property, which MPs, or delegates, will propose to their homes. I also have a report that I received in Banja Luka from the nouns who participated in this reconciliation that does not correspond to this second text, so from Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović. From which I see that what was agreed was treated in different ways on both sides. I would pray in the future that when you do things like this, that delegates, or MPs, are notified in writing, means written by means of signatures of those who have made the adjustments, because this is how it happens to us that someone is somewhere...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1194	I would beg you, we're discussing laws and principles 31.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1195	I'm just, I think I'm talking about principles, so this is what this text is based on, that is, on which we're going to have to stand at the review and in the second reading. So, I would pray in the future that all these adjustments were made public, so transparently with the signatures of those who agreed to it. In that case, we wouldn't have the dilemma we're going to have, or these huge amendments would be easier for us to solve at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1196	I thank you, but I would remind you all of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Lawmaking is the responsibility of two homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. The Council of Ministers, in its method of course, can use a variety of methods, but do not enter into the House anything by the Constitution or by the rules of procedure of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I would return you to the debate on the Industrial Property Act under Article 90 on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded, and the method of work of the Council of Ministers can, if you will, also in the case of delegation issues and in particular the initiative of the agenda point. But you are sovereign therefore independent MPs, of course it is good to have as much information as possible. Today, we are not just saying about the amendments to the principles of first reading, so I'd like to return you to the debate. Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1197	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Industrial Property, i.e. Industrial Property and the Law on Copyright and Other Related Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we will consider after a few laws after this are considered at today's session, are therefore two very important laws that need to introduce order in very important and important areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina which are now being regulated on the basis of the rules that apply on the basis of continuity, i.e. in principle of the adoption of legal regulations. That's why I want to say that I'm glad that today we are in a position that Bosnia and Herzegovina should get as much as any normal state of the Industrial Property Act I support this text of the law. I support him in the text as he came from the Council of Ministers. I would like to point out that this is a very professional law and that practicing legal technique through amendments in some unreal way can disrupt the complete course of the law. A point or one word in one place can cause at 160 or 157, and I don't know how many members of this law, the whole disorder in other provisions. I would also like to say, therefore, that I cannot look at not saying that the acquisition of certain industrial property rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina is achieved by 32 submitting national application to the Institute of Standards and Measurement and Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with this law that is related to international associations, so the rules of the game are international, this is in line with international legal acts. There can only be one such institute at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We discussed all these amendments on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm lucky, so I'm also a member of that commission and in this second Finance and Budget Committee. We have given our duty, we have paid attention to all the proposals that have been made through the amendments and believe that what has arrived from the commission is, in fact, something that is most logical in our court and what this Parliament needs to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1198	I thank you for your discussion with Mr. Džaferović. I didn't see anyone answer for a debate. I'm closing up. We said that the commission's report, if the presidents want the committee to report for the word, it's at the beginning of a session for a possible explanation. Thank you. If there are no new applications for debate, I will conclude the debate under Article 90 and ask the envoys to approach the plea. Who is it to conduct a debate on members of the law? It was unanimously adopted in the first reading, i.e. that a discussion of the Law on Industrial Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina can be joined by members as ordered by the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the sixth item of the agenda and we're moving on to Ad. Seven. The demining law is proposed by the Council of Ministers. First reading. Do the Council of Ministers need to report for a word, explain? There isn't. First we have a debate on the necessity of the principles on which the law is founded. You've received a report from the committee in charge. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1199	Ladies and gentlemen, this is another of these laws that are on the agenda on which I have essential observations in a conceptual sense. I think it is a significant legal project that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs, and it is a pity that the Demining Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been passed before. I just want to remind you of the ugly stories, the ugly stories that unfortunately many people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have lost their lives after the signing of innocent people and women and children after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a large area that is under mines or mines. You remember that the members of the Demining Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina have simply been replaced; you remember the different stories and nerves of top international representatives; you remember the reaction of former US Ambassador Mr. 33 Miler, who asked for a shift as well; you remember the story that it was a money laundering centre in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Does anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina know how much money has been collected, spent on demining, how many mines have been removed, how many mines are left? These are all mysterious questions that seem to have no answer. We're going into legal regulation, I'd say on the same principles. What I insist on about this law, I hope, with a fundamental goal of removing as many mines as possible in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope I get your support. It is in Chapter 2 which difines the demining structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in this chapter, the body at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina at point 1 of the words - the Demining Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, replacing words - the Mine Action Centre in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Articles 4, 5, 6 of the draft of this law that defines the work of the commission. An explanation - by forming a committee of staff in the Council of Ministers, or more specifically from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications for which, following this proposal, there is no need for the necessary professional qualifications, i.e. which would leave almost a full part of the job to demining centres would not implement the primary objectives of demining at all but simply introduce additional administration and cost increases. Because if you look more closely at the provisions of these members then it is obvious that the intended demining centre should do all the work that is visible from the provisions of Article 9. The draft, and that the Commission is practically simply to agree on plans for reports which do not achieve the necessary level of control which is the basic idea of the whole proposal. Therefore, centres as planners and contractors must be directly responsible for all their activities and results, not that this responsibility should be divided in the proposed way, i.e. create a situation of mutual accusations or inability to determine responsibility at all. For these reasons, I believe that the centre for demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be set up as a place of coordination, planning, realization and accountability, in any case, for professionals to engage in the centre. Maybe mostly those who became disabled on these jobs. One question arises whether there are really no professional people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are left without the works of a body that can adequately and professionally deal with these jobs, or whether we need in the Commission to stand well-moved people in good physical condition who will be walking around the world looking for funds, and then different measures to discuss legal projects to avoid responsibility for everything that happens in this area. So my basic conclusion is to form an operational body whose result will be removed as many mines as possible in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've had commission work so far, we've had results that aren't adequate for various political speculations and pains that are exposed to citizens that weren't the subject of the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So please, therefore, this is the one, my conceptal difference with the desire to abolish would say the parasitic bodies in the realization of any business in which it is the jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All these other amendments are mostly about that. So, where the Commission is mentioned, it is a demining centre with all its competences, planning, control and accountability, and that once we have a clear picture in Bosnia and Herzegovina of what is being done. Whether every job in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially one relating to the 34 mine removal, must look like money laundering. You don't have to if it's legally well regulated. I beg you, therefore, this is the first reading, and I support the proposal's intention to come to the law, so I support that intention. I think the law is necessary, but we don't have the right to make mistakes by adopting laws quickly, but laws that will bring results not to the ground. So I ask the Proposer, I ask the Proposer, since this is the first reading to consider these essential remarks until the next reading. It's the least important point, the point, is this, is that. We will need, in accordance with this law, information on how many funds have been collected, how many mines have been removed and what has been done in that field. We'll be free if we vote this or that amendment today, and the law doesn't get results. So please the Council of Ministers has plenty of time. I support the idea and the essence, but in the concept of the law, to consider that everything that costs and is not in direct function of mine removal goes beyond the law. We don't need makeup commissions to negotiate this or that. I think you can find people from the Demining Center who are fatally tied to that job. That's it, I have no reason to read all the amendments, because this is a fundamental amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1200	Thank you. So he recalled, it is very useful that Mr Špirić and some of his amendments were presented. We will discuss the amendments in case we support the law in accordance with Article 90 on necessity and principles at the next session in the second reading, but I would ask you to see if anyone else is reporting for discussion in accordance with Article 90. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1201	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going out a little more today for this pay phone, but there's a need not to just get the wrong impression. So I want the right impression of what happens when it comes to the adoption of these laws. The demining law in Bosnia and Herzegovina is of course an important law and I support the principles of this law and support the text of the law as the text arrived from the Council of Ministers. All these laws were the subject of debate in the Council of Ministers, the subject of reconciliation both by entities and by peoples. The OHR has been involved in determining the text of these laws and after all this has been agreed there comes to us in parliamentary procedure and then, of course, MPs have the right to make amendments, but amendments of concept nature come. This is what happened with the Defense Act, this is what happens with the Demining Act, this is what's going to happen with all the other laws. What did the Council of Ministers do? It didn't do anything. If that's what it is. If amendments are now introduced which are quite different concepts. We discussed this law on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we heard these reasons Mr Špirić spoke of. The Commission and the Centre are two bodies and both bodies are needed. The Bosnia and Herzegovina state-level commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina-level Centre with some branches in Sarajevo and Banja Luka. The Commission represents Bosnia and Herzegovina and is its primary task, its primary task, and the Centre performs technical and other tasks on behalf of the Commission. The Commission also has other competences that cannot be taken over by the Centre which it has to carry out on behalf of the State and therefore needs the Commission. So I'm staying at the concept that we can't talk about amendments here anymore 35. Here we can talk about a completely different concept and once a complete alignment procedure has been completed both by entities and by peoples and by all other criteria and elements. This is the second concept now. I support the concept written in the text of the bill and which came here before us MPs to Parliament. I cannot accept the concept that Mr Špirić advocates through the form of an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1202	I think it's quite clear. I'd be begging if you don't agree with each other, there's no reason to replicate each other. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1203	I don't think a replica should piss anyone off if the replica moves in the spirit of a legal project in terms of finding a solution. I think that the replicas of my and Mr. Džaferović are on the trail of finding a solution, not the negation of the function of delegates. What I'm trying to say is if we as delegates can't even change the concept of the legislator's law, then we're a group of singers who need to connect the scarf through their eyes and adopt in advance everything that comes from the Council of Ministers from any office. That's not good. I, since this is the law in first reading, can therefore talk about the principles on which the law rests. Even what I was talking about, and it is not a change in the principles of which the Council of Ministers goes, but rather the adoption of the legal text into the function of the legislator's intention to remove as many mines as possible. I would ask someone in Bosnia and Herzegovina to answer me why the previous demining commission, the demand for responsibility and all covered by a veil of secrets has been changed? I apologize to Mr Spahić, he may answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1204	I'd beg you without throwing away.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1205	My purpose is that everything that can be the subject of speculation does not stand in the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1206	Mr. Špirić, you're looking for a replica, if it's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1207	I'm asking you, I've had it. It is a replica. It's not a replica to insult each other. It's to explain more widely. So I think Dom can change the principles, get the legislator back. I ask that the legislator, in order for a better law to come, is neither the Council of Ministers without sin. So that's why we as a legislative body are here to adopt legal projects so that it can be used tomorrow in Bosnia and Herzegovina's field. So I ask simply to declare this amendment to the Council of Ministers until the second reading. 36 I support both the principle and the need to reach the law, I have said it all, but all the shortcomings that have been in practice so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been incorporated into the law. What happens if we get back into a situation where someone from the international community in front of the eyes of the local public gives us a lesson that no mines are removed at the Demining Centre, but money is being laundered. Then how are we going to connect we have a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1208	Before I give a new replica, I'd just like to ask you to explain. It is clearly stated in the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure that the law is proposed. When it comes to first reading, it is stated about the concept and necessity of the law. Parliament has the right to return the law, i.e. not to adopt it in the first reading, and this implies not accepting this concept and in this context it is very clearly regulated and there is no reason to use inappropriate words, although one of the other Parliament, or House, is declared. After that, if the principles and concept of the law are accepted, then the debate on articles, or amendments, shall be held. It is in this context that it is good that the Council of Ministers has an opinion, but I keep saying it is not necessary and please, we cannot procedurally or in any way request from the Council of Ministers or use the formulation to withdraw to install etc. Any MP can consult with his council of ministers, with our Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and possibly on the basis of their knowledge, submit amendments. For this law, I remind you, the deadline for the submission of the amendments has passed and we can discuss and have the knowledge that we will already declare the proposed amendments of Mr Špirić which are already in the procedure and which we will plead, and some of these amendments have been presented to us by our distinguished colleague, Mr Špirić. He answered for the word. Thank you. Next to debate under article 90, Mr Rodić and Mr Novaković reported. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1209	Ladies and gentlemen, I've come forward for another reason, and I'm going to say what I think about these laws and I'm not going to say what I think about one law, but I'm going to say what I think about the set of these laws because they remind me the same thing about that project of the CIPS laws, just from different fields, and that we're clearing some things here. Perhaps I have the extraordinary honor of being a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission so this persuasion I am listening to today I have the opportunity to listen to on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. But what I think is necessary is that given that the chairman often calls on the Rules of Procedure then and certain questions we should do business. We might do well to get past all this, to hear the report first, we all have these reports of commissions, but let's hear those reports and see if there was a constitutional basis, so what amendments have passed by most. What Mr. Džaferović says is that I have remained in the minority, most often Mr. Špirić and I remain in the minority and again enter into the debate, a fundamental debate over these things. 37 But I would only say conceptually what is going on in that first reading, and this also for the Law on Industrial Property and the Consumers Act and the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Because they really are a set of laws that are necessary. I support those principles that are in those laws. But I don't think it's good, and that this is the attitude that we've expressed today where we place a dam that we can't move on and that we can't come up with a harmonised text of the law, and I don't think it's just a concept. Because we often talk about concepts, and maybe concepts are similar, but we just don't have a good will or we need to beat each other. For this reason, I think that much more needs to be done to bring things together and it should not always be considered that the amendments that come from the order of the Serbian Club are amendments that go towards the adoption of the laws. I am responsible for saying that this is not the case, but we are looking for solutions, because if we do so, then we will take the map of the road and we will take the white book and we will see there all those directives that are prescribed and that need to be fulfilled in order for us to join or join the Council of Europe or the European Union. Then we're really going to turn into one body that's going to rewrite those laws and just raise our hand and then we're all gonna be good. However, I think that, due to the specificity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its two entities, we must look for solutions that will actually have these basic principles from both the white book and the road map, but we are looking for specifics that will simply allow these laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1210	I'm thanking you. Mr. Novaković. Here you go. He's giving up. I'll repeat it one more time in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure Špirić has tabled amendments, and they will be the subject of both discussions and statements in the second reading. If necessary, you have received a written report from this committee. I made you at the beginning. Mr Rodić, you have received a report from the Commission, I asked at the beginning of the debate whether the Council of Ministers or the Commission might want the Presidents of the Commission, it is not too late now if you insist or seek. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1211	I would like to, I didn't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1212	I'd like to beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1213	I would ask you not to throw away while Parliament is working. I would ask you this to tell you that our body, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, has delivered the report neatly. Mr Rodić, who is one of the vice-presidents of the commission, said just before this statement that he personally supported the debate on the principles on which the demining law rests, as well as the laws he cited on industrial and copyright property. So in that 38 spirit, the Commission discussed the amendments in mind. Some accepted, some did not accept, and according to the Rules of Procedure they would come on the agenda in the second reading. I therefore call on the House in line with this and my fellow Rodić's proposal that we set ourselves up according to this phase of the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1214	Thank you. The debate is exhausted. I ask the envoys to approach the plea. Who is it to conduct a debate on members of the law, so to adopt it in the first reading? I find it unanimous, with 13 votes for the adopted Demining Act in the first reading and that it can go into procedure for the second reading. Ad. 8. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Consumer Protection Act is proposed by the Council of Ministers. First reading. As with previous laws, we first hold a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. You've received a report from the committee in charge. Is there any need please yes. Do any of the envoys have the need to have, in addition to the report, a written report, an explanation of the President of the Commission. I don't see anyone wanting that. Whether or not the Council of Ministers wants to come out with its position. The Council of Ministers, during the course of the session, may step forward with its opinion, a position related to the legislative procedure. Thank you. I'm opening a debate in accordance with Article 90. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1215	I must first say that the consumer protection law is in the right sense necessary and that it is a real shame that we did not have this area properly solved in the previous period. Of course, then that means my way of commitment to this law when it comes to the principles on which this law rests. I came out to say just one fact, which is that this law is actually an example of the unscrupulous work of some delegates in committees. We have heard here many times today that amendments from the order of the Serb people's delegates change the concept of the law, and even when that is not true, then on the Constitutional and Legal Commission would accept Mr Spahić's amendments that change the concept. I ask you gentlemen in the Constitutional and other committees to be principled when we talk about the foundations on which certain laws have been given, i.e. proposed in the debate. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1216	I thank Mr. Novaković. I haven't seen anyone else answer for a word. If not. Okay. I thank, thank those who participated in the debate and those who gave up the debate. I'm closing. I'm closing the debate. Of course they have amendments, they will be the subject of a statement in the House in accordance with procedures. I ask the envoys, delegates respected to approach the plea. Who is it to conduct a debate on members of the law? Unanimity. All 14 present envoys supported the consumer protection law to conduct a debate on principles, or adopted it in the first reading. Ad. Nine. Law on copyright and other related rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposing the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. First reading. First we have a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded, Article 90. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The Council of Ministers has no need for further explanations or opinions. I am opening a debate in accordance with Article 90, which means the necessity and principles, principles, the concept of law. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1217	Dear Mr Tokić and other colleagues, I would like to say that we on the Commission as you have seen have accepted the principles on which the copyright law rests. I would also like to express my satisfaction that they are representatives of associations representing different groups of artists and those providing intellectual services and interventions, etc. in a very authentic way express the interests of those who sign under their work, who verify their work. I had one pleasure to hear for the first time the integrated text of one request from the representatives of institutions who were also present as well as these young students of the Faculty of Political Sciences and Rights, as scholarships from our assistants in the programme of democratisation. And they did it in the program to say the presence of civil society in the best way possible. He would like to recommend space since it was in their request that the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission be asked for the urgent session of both Houses of Parliament and that the adoption of this law be sought, because each day their interests are lost, their property is simply melted, the possibility of society and state and budgets being melted to protect those rights. And that's the function of this home itself that everything possible for the Business College to examine, so I recommend it because the principles are acceptable to do so to speed up the process of passing this law. So this is also why I came out and I am convinced that we have adopted very valuable amendments at the session itself that have extended the requirements beyond what was fundamentally the bill offered by the Council of Ministers, and that the 40 person who worked is one of the authorities of our law school, Mrs Krneta. The proposal for this law simply creates a single climate would say this current situation for the College to take business steps to adopt this law as soon as possible. So the principles are clear, they are modernized, standardised in European and global scales, and it is crucial that this would stop piracy and that they would have the conditions to protect the integrity of their copyright work. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1218	I thank Mr Spahić, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, who knows well that the College is in charge of respecting the Rules of Procedure and that if this law is adopted after the first reading, it will be the subject of adoption of amendments, i.e. the law. Who answers the question in the context of the debate on principles and principles. Mr. Špirić, dear fellow Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1219	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the principles of this bill are well set up. I have a few suggestions that the amendments will also be on the second reading. I want you to keep an eye on what this is all about. I suggest that in article 54 you have the law in point one to erase the words. Article 54 reads – For the exploitation of folk, literary and artistic works through public performance, compensation is paid as for the public performance of works of authors. I propose that the rest of the sentence be deleted – compensation is the income of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state budget. The revenues of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state budget are defined by the Constitution and in this way through the law but they can... I think this can cause a political, unnecessary political debate, so it can lead primarily to unnecessary political debate and I suggest that this part of the sentence be deleted and I think that around Bosnia and Herzegovina's incomes will be opened and if it is provided I don't think it's going to be a problem to extend it through legal projects. But this way, I'm afraid it can cause unnecessary kind of conversation. Amendment II to Article 83 in the fourth row behind the word - part to place the point. I want you to find that article 83. A member of 83 is said to be concerned – after the death of the author about the protection of his copyrights, if the author has not determined otherwise during the duration of his copyright and property rights as well as the organisations of the authors who died, the author or who belonged to him according to the type of work. I suggest putting a point there because this embedded part in an extra sentence that is simply difficult to install and the Academy of Science and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Looks like someone remembered later. I don't think it's a very important institution. I mean, I don't mean at all, I don't argue whether or not we should have it, but in this sentence, it's too much. It's about protecting actions, not institutions. So about copyright, and the institution is important, important. It is an institution, of course, especially an institution on the Academy of Sciences in any country should not open a miserable 41 debate whether or not it should be. But I think in this text of this law you should put an end to it because this is an extra sentence that I don't know what it's for. Amendment III to Article 134 and I propose that changes be made and read – the conduct of the criminal proceedings under this law is subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the infringement is laid down by this law by the jurisdiction of the courts of the entities, as this is the case with legal projects on courts of that jurisdiction and division. And it would be good if it did. So these are my suggestions and until the second reading I just want them to be the subject of your attention to see if this is what I'm talking about can stand in law. I think it was too much and it would be good if the text was dressed in this sense. Thank you very much. So these are suggestions to improve the text. I support the principles and will plead positively to this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1220	Of course. No one in business can make it impossible for the envoy, the delegates, even after the debate in Article 90, to present their amendments, but let me, as chairman, note that the same envoys will certainly explain it in this area even more widely at the next sessions, so I do not consider it very meaningful if my littleness can give that suggestion. Is there anyone else to report for a hearing about this law in accordance with Article 90? Mr. Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1221	Dear colleagues, so I've already said something about this law when I was talking about Zkon's industrial property. So one very important and professional law. Watch out, this law can't be written by anyone. This law can only be written by top legal experts. As far as I know, this law has been written or written by a professor of law school. Well, I'm not gonna use it now, I don't have any, I can't speak names, I don't have the right to do that. So it's a matter that's highly professional. I've been warning you about this whole time and it's very dangerous in this kind of matter, and I don't dispute the right to intervene in this way. Please, nice. A member of 83rd says this after the author's death on the protection of his copyrighted moral rights is concerned, unless the author has determined otherwise during the duration of the copyrighted property rights by his successors as well as an organisation of the author whose author died belonged to or to whom he would belong according to the type of work and the Academy of Science and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Can this member get in the way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1222	A distinguished colleague, Mr. Špirić, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1223	A colleague, Džaferović, will not be angry if Parliament could draw the conclusions that the professors are writing, we are not at all discussing. These are professional people no need for. So 42 suggestions that it's not good to discuss laws that are professionally written doesn't look like a parliamentary debate on laws. It doesn't matter. I suppose all the laws that come to us are professionally written with the same desire to be adopted. It doesn't matter if he wrote a professor and the professor commented. It is the right of the delegate to comment on the proposed laws. But please, when it's a member of 83rd, after the author's death, we'd better talk about the life of auroth than death, but here's the member. After the death of the author on the protection of his copyright and moral rights, if the author has not determined otherwise, during the duration of his copyright and property rights as an organization of the author whom the author died for. If he's a member of the Academy of Science, of course he'll take care of the Academy. If he is a member of any other association, that association will be cared for and therefore I think it is an excess of this – and the Academy of Science. How the Academy of Science will take care of something that isn't a capital science. Why would she worry? She has her own diapazon of worries. And I think she was put in here for a reason. It seems to me that this part of the word lice, the Academy of Science and Art has its specific rules of conduct. Let's not discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1224	Mr. Špirić, I think you've entered a detail that's very potent on the article, so I'd like to ask you to step aside from the essence of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1225	It was a replica. Possibly, the predecessor referred to the article and I just answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1226	Thank you. If you want, we can define one conclusion, and obviously there is a tendency to lead at the same time, regardless of the number of amendments to the debate on first and second readings. We can make that conclusion because it is considered quite meaningful, because I see that people also have the need to conduct an amendment debate regardless of what is not the agenda point. But I believe that Mr. Rodić, a dear colleague, Mr. Rodić, will. A debate or a replica. Replica. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1227	Here's the thing. When we come to a misunderstanding since this article in 83rd, I think it is not even controversial anymore, because the Constitutional and Legal Commission is in the article - 83rd in the third order of the words of the Academy of Science and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina is replaced by the words of the institution in the fields of science and art. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1228	Thank you. Here I think this debate will help discuss the articles in the second reading be faster. If you need a break for your clarification. I think we've exhausted the debate. We can approach the vote in accordance with Article 90. Who is it to conduct a debate on members of the law? Mr. Špirić, please be present at the time of the vote in your place. Who's in? Thirteen voted yes. This text of the law was unanimously adopted in the first reading. Ad. Ten. Law on state service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposed by the Council of Ministers. Again, I remind you that this is about the first reading of the discussion of the necessaryness and principles. And I'd ask you to just discuss it. Does the Council of Ministers of Principles possibly have a desire to say something, or a commission? You've received a report from the commission. I don't see anyone answering these names. But for the word from the announcement, dear colleague Mr. Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1229	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the law on state service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is therefore like these other laws we have spoken of in one of the very important laws governing the issue of service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I support the text of the law by talking about principles, so I'm afraid that in the provision of Article 28 of the current text of the law, there is no breach, so I'm afraid that there will be no breach of the principle of the division of power into legislative and executive and judicial power. When Article 28 speaks of who is being admitted, i.e. the appointment of executives and other civil servants, there is one thing that we should all seriously consider, because the concept of the law is such that the management officers are appointed by an institution in which these officials work with the opinion of the agency to be formed under this law, and that the other officials are appointed by the agency with the opinion of the institution in which these officials work. Now, watch out, since this is a law that will settle the issue of state service and the Council of Ministers as executive authority and in the judicial authority and in Parliament as a legislative authority, we may be in a position to have other civil servants, so state officials who are not managing officials who, for example, will. to work in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, appointed by the Agency, with a reasoned opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an administrative body in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we will be in position, this is not the situation when the officials are in charge, because then they will decide the relevant competent authority in Parliament, and the agency will only get a proposal or opinion. But there are 44 problems with these other officers. Therefore, we will not violate the principle of power-sharing in legislative enforcement and court if we agree to the possibility to say the agency as an executive authority, because it is appointed by the Council of Ministers, or installed by the Council of Ministers under this law, to appoint people with our own opinion to appoint people who will work in the administrative services of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament and will not be in the ranks of executives but ordinary officials. I thought that in this way it could be affected, the principle of the division of power in the legislative executive and judicial power could be violated, and in this direction I am therefore talking about the principles offered one amendment to that article which I actually want to agree on these two things. The agency is needed therefore, it needs the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then needs to do its job, but I see it more when it comes to Parliament. When it comes to courts. I see it more as an administrative technical service, and let it for the Council of Ministers and for the executive power be what it should be. She should do all these jobs to call a competition, to hold talks, to do all she has to do to dà her opinion, and then the institution specifically talked about the example of Parliament to receive not only executives but also other civil servants. That's where that amendment is going, and I'm not going to talk about the second amendment. He's really not a matter of principle. He's just a matter of amendment. I'll talk about him because this is a debate about principles, when amendments need to be spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1230	Is anyone else answering for word? Dear fellow Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1231	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the State Service Act, I just want to say that the services are not following the commission work of the House of Peoples again. We have a report by the Commission on constitutional and legal issues saying that one amendment was adopted by Mr. Džaferović, one amendment by Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Sejfudin Tokić and five amendments by Nikola Špirić. These amendments had to be an integral part of the text of the law that had to be on our desk so that we could continue to have an extra discussion so as not to get confused. Because we have one text, we have a report from the Commission we have other amendments. What I want to say is that there has been a change in the principles on which the law rests, because it was supported by, of course, the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I supported that position, which means that every rule has an exception, that the Central Bank has been excluded from this legal set as a monetary institution, which is also a derogation from the principles set out by the Council of Ministers. I think this principle provides for the political economic and legal independence of the Central Bank, which is present in all European countries and I don't think we've done anything wrong. But I'm saying it's backfired on the principles of which the proposer came and I think it's a good proposal for the text of the law. And I'd like to draw the most serious attention. When the services remain for 15 days or more than 15 days, I don't think there's any reason to complain that they can't pass the text of the law to delegates and MPs. I think the services are either out of order or they don't want to follow parliamentary work. It will be impossible very quickly, because you can think that every delegate or 45 each has 5.6.7,8 amendments that will be accepted and installed. In which way it is possible to conduct a parliamentary debate. So please, there is no excuse that what has been accepted on the committees and that, by the letter of the law and the Rules of Procedure becomes an integral part of the text, we have not received a consolidated text on the table. I warned you this is the third legal project where I warn the services of the House of Peoples that they are not effective and that they are not following the work of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1232	Thank you. I didn't see anyone answer for word anymore. We can conclude a debate under Article 90 concerning the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and join the plea. I ask all delegates to vote. Who is it to conduct a debate on the members of this law? Do you mind? Abstained? I find it unanimous, so from 13 votes to pass this law in the first reading. Ad. 11. The Law on Amendments and Supplements on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Customs Teriff is proposed by the Council of Ministers. Customs tariff is an integral part of the law and I suggest we conduct a joint discussion. This is also the first reading for the Council of Ministers' tariffs. First we have a debate on necessity and principles, as well as on previous laws. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The importance of the law, I think, is highlighted in the statements of the Council of Ministers' representatives, and in what our obligation is to address the internal situation of these requirements for European integration. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Jerko Ivanković picked up the phone. Here you are, sir. Dear colleague Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1233	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests. In public, we can hear all of us standing up for domestic production, for opening new jobs, for better budgeting and funds. We now have amendments and a law whose adoption can and practically establish our public agendas. The legislator is familiar with these amendments, and so far we have not received a written reply that could not have adopted these amendments. I propose that this law and amendments be made known in a second reading so that its implementation can be implemented as soon as possible, and that enables us to continue to launch, and allow the launch of negotiations to join the World Trade Organisation of the VTO. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1234	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? There's no further discussion. Who is it to conduct a debate on members by law? Please let us all plead. Thirteen, which means that the unanimous House made the decision to adopt this law in the first reading. I would ask the Rules of Procedure to allow us to complete the second reading. Dom accepts the suggestion, Mr Ivanković's suggestion that we now have a second reading. Who's in? Twelve for it. Against? Niko. Does anyone have any abstentions? One abstention. I find that we can approach the debate by members. Therefore, the second reading relating to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina and customs tariffs. Amendments in accordance with Article 89. A delegate named Jerko Ivanković submitted to the Rules of Procedure. There were no other amendments. Who's calling for a hearing? Does Mr. Jerko Ivanković want to explain his amendments? If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We now declare amendments to tariffs. It's a debate. Excuse me. I'm sorry, we didn't close the debate. The President of the Commission, Mr Jerka Ivanković's amendments, came forward. That's two amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1235	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy is in its session of 16. The 11th debated the amendments and there were several amendments. The applicants and representatives of the proposings were also present and indeed in one corrective debate by the proposings and by the members of the Commission it was agreed that Mr Jerko Ivanković's amendment to customs tariffs was accepted, as no amendments to any of the discussions on the customs tariff law were made to amendments and amendments to the customs tariff law were made so that no new point b. was added in Amendment I to Section 2 of the special provision, which reads - both customs and other import duties or duties are not paid on goods imported as raw materials and is used for production. Second, the goods referred to in Article 1 in the production must experience such changes to be subject to a change in the tariff number. So that goods which... continue to be the next item if the goods referred to in item 1 are placed on the market in the condition in which they are imported or during production are not subject to the criterion of modification of the tariff number, the importer shall be obliged to pay customs duties, other import fees or fees and prescribed tight interest rates. So far, points b.c. d. become points c. d. i. e. So the Commission has accepted that these amendments and this argument are accepted. Amendment II concerns the modification of tariff numbers. In Part 2 of the list of customs duties in Chapter 2 meat and other meat offal, two new tariff numbers are added – so the number standing here refers to the machine-exhausted frozen meat of the customs rate 0 and the second number also relating to machine-exhausted frozen meat also the rate of customs duty 0. So two are different numbers, probably related to a kind of meat. The amendments thus became an integral part of the proposal for tariff tariffs for customs tariffs. I think what Mr Ivanković said earlier, and with what he wrote and delivered to the delegates, it is clear what the intention is to change in this part, which is why these amendments should be adopted. There was also an amendment to Mr. Ibro Spahić who found his place in this amendment and so he also covered it, and I think there really are all the conditions for us to adopt these two important laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1236	I'd like to clarify what we're talking about. Those amendments adopted by the commission are an integral part of the text of the law and we are not holding a debate on it. But in any case, we thank you for the explanation and for the additional information regarding the text of the law. What I have on me are amendments to the customs tariff, these two amendments. If it takes a short break for everyone to meet the amendments. I suggest it's a 10-minute break just to get the MPs to check if they have the amendments. Ten minutes break, please stay in the O.R. The chairman of the Croatian Envoys Club asked for a break, if you need to speak to him. No, good. Consultations that have no meaning for public disclosure. We'd like to ask, if you'd like the president of the Serbian delegates, but. Thank you. We go, Mr. Jerko Ivanković said about the amendments we all have, which were not accepted on the commission, and Ivanković submitted them to the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1237	Dear Chairman, fellow envoys, distinguished guests. I believe that these amendments encourage a positive process in encouraging domestic production, in creating new jobs, in hiring new people. This will pay taxes and contributions to funds all in the country's budgets, all in the country from which we will be able to further meet obligations both towards pensioners and victims and all users of these budgets. I have submitted these amendments yet, in fact the second amendment in the seventh month to this House. So far, we have not received any written statement from the motionor 48 that there are obstacles to their adoption. I have also consulted with the institutions of certain rumors that they prevent such amendments from being adopted, and I have not received arguments why the amendments would not have been made. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1238	I'm thanking you. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Kragulj. Here you go, Mr. Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1239	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say next when it comes to these amendments. It is known that last year, i.e. two years ago, between entities, there was a working group that was to come forward with a proposal, i.e. since we are in an environment where Bosnia and Herzegovina is operating in these areas, there is the lowest customs protection, i.e. customs duties when compared to Slovenia, Croatia, Yugoslavia, Macedonia, etc. And for this reason, a working group was formed at an inter-entity level that should have reached new tariffs, respecting both our conditions and our needs and protecting domestic production and our need to enable production to start and our fiscal and all other needs, etc. For the reason that this business has become quite difficult and we have come into contact and are obliged to enter into negotiations with the World Trade Organisation to join the World Trade Organisation, the World Trade Organisation is practically in my own letter, because I did not know that today we would be discussing in another customs tariff reading, which has practically blocked our ability to fix customs tariffs in terms of its increase. Given the situation, we are in a position to make an existing customs tariff with... as we call them or fees on certain products paid for importing those products, we have been able to only existing customs rates and existing advances as an additional customs duty add to the existing customs rates and adopt it as a customs tariff. In this respect, it was only possible and only accepted by the World Trade Organisation to go on, to allow certain customs rates to be reduced. Given that, here and through Amendment I and through Amendment II, it proposes to increase customs rates and in the first amendment and additional customs duties, it is specifically done here, not exported, it is about raw pig thighs as far as I understand or raw ham, yet to be added, leave 10% and add 5 KM it is a far greater deviation. Even twice as much deviation in the customs burden compared to the ones we've had so far, and when it comes to Amendment II here is practically everything that hasn't been used in production is about increasing customs rates by 10%. That's how I figured it out here, if I get it right. I think this is unacceptable, and I would ask that my argument be respected so that we don't have these amendments not to adopt, because we can cause ourselves problems. By the end of the year, we are obliged to send a memorandum that we have passed a new customs policy law and a new customs law, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law and a new customs tariff law, so that we can access further negotiations at all. That's it. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1240	I thank you for giving the Deputy Minister's opinion. Does this Proposer stay with the amendments? The Proposer stays with the amendments, which means we can access the plea. Excuse me. A debate on amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1241	I want to state the club's position. We will respect the opinion of the Council of Ministers, therefore around these amendments, given the reasons we have heard here. I came out for another reason, and that is to ask the Council of Ministers who did not have the opportunity to declare the amendment that is now an integral part of the text. Is this part practical? I am afraid that this is what we have created the basis for our share of raw materials to enter the market, which we will not be able to follow properly later, that is, to monitor their conversion into finished products and change of tariff views and that we will achieve another effect, that is, instead of having positive effects on the budget, we will have negative effects on the budget. It seems to me that the inclusion of these amendments in the text is very problematic, and that is why I would ask the people of the Council of Ministers to declare whether this is possible to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1242	I'm thanking you. I would only remind you that we are in the phase of the debate on the amendments of Jerka Ivanković which have not passed the commission phase. The amendments adopted on the commission are an integral part of the text of the laws to be declared and would not be inclined as chairman to allow the debate to return to principles of principle, etc. Respecting, of course, the Rules of Procedure. In this context, if there is no more, one and an amendment to ii Jerka Ivanković, I ask that we join the plea. So, we heard the opinion, the deputy minister made the point that these two amendments are unacceptable from the point of view of the Council of Ministers. The promoter gave an explanation as to why he considers these amendments acceptable. I ask the envoys to approach the plea. The amendment of I Jerke Ivanković in tariff code 021011 and then 0000 rates of customs duty are changed and it is 10% plus 5 KM per lilogram. Who's to adopt this amendment? - 4 Who is against this amendment? Who's restrained? I figure the amendment got the required majority, got the required majority. We're approaching entity. I thank you for coming to the plea. The amendment has received the required majority. 50 We now approach the entity's declaration. Who's for the Federation amendment? - 4 Who is against the Federation amendment? - 2 Who is abstention? – 3 The amendment received an entity majority in the Federation – a third was for. Later on, you're up against it. From the RS who's up for the amendment? - none. The amendment did not receive the required majority in RS. The amendment's going to the alignment. I don't know what you see. We approach the declaration of Amendment II Amendment II reads: To all tariff codes, add to the existing customs rate an additional rate of 10% of customs duty, except the re-proportionals used in production and in production experience such a change to meet the criterion of the change in the tariff number. Who's in? - 2 Who is abstention? - 8 Who's against it? – 3 The amendment did not receive the required majority. Since we can't approach the plea before we agree on this amendment, I'm asking for a five-minute break, to see if we can get to the College. Against the amendments from RS Amadnamn did not receive the necessary entity majority and is not an integral part of the text of the law. [[PAUZA]] The conditions have been met to declare the text of the amending and supplementing laws on customs tariffs for BiH and customs tariffs. Please, who's in favor of the text of the law? Please raise your hand again, the services are not here to record. Dear Ilić, you just voted yes. - 12 Who's against it? No one. Who's being held back? I find that with 12 votes for, unanimously adopted this text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1243	It is not unanimous, 12 - 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1244	Is there any need for an entity vote? There's no need for an entity vote, since there was no one against it. I suggest we continue to implement the agenda points. I expect the realizaic will go quickly and I'm not a break supporter, which we usually give about two hours. Do you agree? You agree. 51 Ad.13. The loan agreement between BiH and the European Bank – The railway reconstruction project I am opening the debate. Who's in? It's about ratifying a series of contracts. Do you mind? There isn't. Abstained? 12 for – 2 abstentions. Ad.14. A development loan agreement between BiH – a project to facilitate trade and transport in Southeast Europe Is there anyone to report for a word? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Which one? Do you mind? Abstained — 2. 2 abstentions and 12 votes for. Ad.15. A financing agreement between BiH and the European Bank – BiH Railway Project Is there anyone to report for the debate? There isn't. Who's in? - 13 for it. Anybody got any abstentions? - 1 I find that we adopted with 13 votes for and 1 abstention. Ad.16. The loan agreement between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – The Energy System Reconstruction Project Is there anyone to report for discussion? There isn't. Who's in? Do you mind? Restraint? There's no one here. I find he was unanimously adopted. Ad.17. A financing contract Project for the reconstruction of the power system Is there anyone to report for the debate? Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1245	I've missed it on the previous contract, and here's what I'm going to say. Something about it was said by the minister when he spoke about the Stability Pact about the meeting of these tables. It's just that some of the conditions that are set up there and it's about the transport agency el. Energy, etc. which are the basics, practically for adoption, for 52 signatures of this contract are not met and if we have been given an explanation, that practically creditors accept this non-fulfilment, but I suggest that, with this being accepted, at least one conclusion, we make a commitment to the Council of Ministers, to go to an accelerated procedure, I would say, the formation of this agency, etc. as necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1246	Is it true you can formulate the conclusion? Please form a conclusion. We have a proposal for a conclusion on this agenda point and we need to make a statement on this contract. Who's in favor of taking the contract? Do you mind? Abstained? Can we get a conclusion or are we gonna take a break to diformize the conclusion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1247	I've had very little time to conclude, so I suggest we reach a conclusion at home, that the Council of Ministers speeds up the procedures for the formation of the transport agency of el. energy and, which is a condition for signing this contract. I think that's the full name of the agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1248	Mr. Divković, it might be a good idea to formulate this as an initiative for the next session as a commitment.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1249	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1250	I thank you for not making a statement about this. Ad.18. Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of SR Germany on financial co-operation in '99-2000. Is anyone answering for this agenda item? I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Do you mind? The abstentions? 12 for 2 abstentions, I'm guessing it's accepted. 53 Ad.19. The Statistics Act – Proposed by the Council of Ministers – first reading in accordance with Article 90. I'm opening a debate. You have a report from the competent committees. Is there any need for the presidents of the commission and the Council of Ministers to speak of this point? I thank you, there isn't. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? Dear colleague Mr. Špirić called.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1251	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Tokić. Ladies and gentlemen, let's have a little fun.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1252	I wasn't kidding when I said it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1253	Murder takes its own, but here's what I'm saying is it's a significant legal project. I'm just going to make a little reminder for all of us, which is how this law came about, so the law in first reading and the possibility of a conclusion regarding this law. In early September...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1254	It doesn't disturb the work of the House, and I think it would be useful to complete the alignment of the CIPS package thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1255	I'll be right there, of course. You Ibron't miss it. It's good to get the job done. In early September 1999, EUROSTAT called on members of the Bureau of Statistics and Directors of Entity Statistics Institutions to visit the institution in Luxembourg. The organised meetings were also attended by an international co-ordinator at the Agency – OHR representative. During this visit, it is clear that the obligations of law-making, which regulate relations in the field of statistics, are in line with the European standards. It is proposed that we make our own agreement and make a proposal, and if we need EUROSTAT's help, EUROSTAT is ready to provide the necessary professional assistance to pass the law. Since no agreement was reached months later, in March 2000, a legal expert from EUROSTAT arrived, who prepared the first text of the law after talks in BiH. The proposal was discussed at several 54 meetings, organised by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications as a resolution ministry or a resolution authority. In line with this statistics, BiH is committed to harmonising all methodologies and classics with international standards. Many institutions are addressing the Statistics Agency, which are looking for data for BiH. Among them are, primarily the UN – the EUROSTAR Statistics Sector, the IMF, the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation, UNESCO, UNICEF and others. In publications of these important institutions, BiH is not presented or presented with very little data. The importance of data for BiH is obvious. As far as making data for the level of BiH is concerned, applying international standards is mandatory if we want to step up with the world. That certainly doesn't mean from a methodological point of view, simple data collection, which provides institutions for entity statistics. That's possible, only in case you get a number of states, e.g. People, students and the like. For all other serious research and deeper analysis, making relevant indicators or... e.g. They need, even individual data. Here, of course, is a very important data protection. The proposed text of the law sets out the obligation, the provision of data for BiH level, but at the same time respects the independence of entity institutions in their obligation, the provision of data for the needs of entities and other users. This text also provides for data protection, i.e. data supply without identification, as referred to in the name of the home number, address and the like. This law represents meeting the minimum requirements set before the BiH Statistics, regardless of the decision, which the statistical institution, which the statistical institution should provide for BiH data, in this case the BiH Statistics Agency, is obliged to respect the same principles. So, as far as principles and what this law rests on, I support them. What I think should be done today makes one conclusion that BiH's competent institutions, therefore, reach an agreement on the assets of the former statistical office of BiH. I think that before the regulation of the law, this agreement must be made, here is the conclusion, that the competent institutions reach agreement on the assets of the former statistical... BiH, since entity institutions' jurisdiction is not disputed, but I think about the property must be reached by agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1256	Is there anyone else reporting for a word regarding the debate under Article 90 on the necessity and principles of the statistical law? If not, I'm closing the debate. We remind you, the amendment debate, which is why we moved this, we'll do this at the next session, because there are amendments that have been submitted, and they're not accepted on the commission. Who is it to conduct a debate on the members of this law? - 11 Who's against it? No abstentions. Unanimity. Thank you. 55 Ad.20. The law on concessions First we hold a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded and the report by the competent commission you received. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. Who is it to conduct a debate on the members of this law? - 10 Unanimous. I find that the Law on concessions of the Council of Ministers, we adopted in our first reading. I'd like to ask you with a 25-minute delay, we've predicted that in half two, we'll complete the plea, related to point 5. It's a law on BiH's defence. I'll remind you, the debate is over. Eight amendments have been tabled by Mr Špirić. I would like to ask a representative of the Council of Ministers, of whom we have asked for an opinion on these amendments to deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1257	The Council of Ministers shall be consulted, in respect of the Law on the Defence, that is, the Advocate's Office and, since a representative of the Council of Ministers participated in the committee section, where one amendment has been adopted, that is, Amendment I to Article 1 of this Act and, the Council of Ministers agrees that this shall be an integral part of the text. The other amendments are, in practice, a deviation from the concept of this law and in consultation with the motion, as the motioner accepted one such explanation, so that the construction of the law remains as proposed by the Council of Ministers, with the adoption of Amendment I of Mr Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1258	Thank you. I would ask only Mr Špirić to plead, does he, after such an opinion, remain with all eight amendments or give up any amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1259	Ladies and gentlemen, I accept the interpretation of the Council of Ministers. I don't think there's any need to, given the mood that prevailed in the debate, I would ask that this amendment accepted by the Council of Ministers become an integral part of the text. It will simply define my position against the entire law. So there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1260	You're withdrawing the other amendments. 56 Thank you. We have an obligation, following a positive opinion by the Council of Ministers on the amendment and by Mr Nikola Špirić, to join the plea. Who is for the adoption of the amendment and Nikola Špirić to the BiH Law on Defence? - 9 Who's against it? - 2 are against it, no matter what the green card is with Mr. Genjac. Abstained? There isn't. I find that this amendment has been adopted and is giving rise to an integral part of the text of the law and, in accordance with the procedures envisaged, I would like to make a statement on the text of the BiH Law on Defence. Who's in favor of the text of the law? – 11 I konstatovati that the text of the Law on BiH's Defence was unanimously adopted, which ended point 6. I'd like to ask you, given the importance of the alignment, which is just passing, to take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1261	Point 5 is the Law on Defence.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1262	I beg your pardon. Thanks, buddy. We've exhausted the concession law. We only have the remaining point, that's 21. Ad.21. I don't understand how we can do that when we don't have reports. There's been a split report. Which means, all of a sudden, I suggest we take a break and plead the full agenda. I'm taking a half-hour break, but I'd like to ask you to stay in such a composition so we can have a quorum. Thank you, which means at half past three is a sequel, which we can realise very quickly. I thought this was going to go faster, so I asked the envoys to wait. Given that the process of harmonisation does not go in a way that we have a lot of agreement, in a way that we can ensure that this report is adopted in both homes now, asking for more time from some members of the Coordination Commission and I am interrupting this session. We'll schedule a follow-up to the next session if some new emergency circumstances don't come up. Thank you and forgive you for... The seat was interrupted at 1450 hours. 57 Dear delegates, your Excellencys, honored guests, media representatives, all present I welcome. The session is attended by 15 delegates, which means 5 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the ranks of Croatia and 5 from the Serb people. Since we have a quorum, we can make decisions in full, to continue the 11th session, the House remains to declare on the report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of the single text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Debt, the Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The House of Peoples and the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Debt Act, the Proposal for a Law on the ID card, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data in different texts. In accordance with Rule 95(2) of the Rules of Procedure, Article 95(2) shall be heard after the report has been heard. If we're going to hear the rapporteur's report outside, here's Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1264	I would like to inform you, gentlemen of the chairman, fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers and representatives of the international community and the media, that we have on two occasions held a meeting of this joint commission. You've received a report from that commission. It's about the alignment, which practically ended in the following way. From what you have seen from the report, you should know that, together with my colleagues, Mr Sušac and Mr Rodić, and with the relevant composition of the House of Representatives Commission, I have agreed to offer a proposal to our home, to accept these amendments, which relate directly to amendments submitted to one of the laws by the People's House and accepted, they are also accepted by the House of Representatives, and when it comes to the second law, which directly applies to one member, it is related to the warning of citizens by state officials at different levels so that the introduction of data related to the entity may cause any difficulties in the use of this personal document, the Commission has agreed in principle on one position to regulate this by the specific regulations and instructions by the Minister of Civil Affairs. I asked in accordance with this procedure, that Minister Mihajlović respond to my request, an opinion raised, whether the Council of Ministers, or the minister who is in charge of the area, practically, a proposal that I insisted on on behalf of the Council of Ministers at a meeting of the House of Peoples. Mr. Mihajlović told the members of the Commission and me, after I had sent this request 58, that they agree with this change and that they remain able to come to an agreement between the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Therefore, the full report you received was signed by the members of the Commission and you have it in front of you, it was an intervention, which I felt was in principle necessary to do, because when one body such as the executive authority insisted on one solution and after that when there was disagreement between two homes, I felt it important that this same body was clearly determined about that member. So that's the result of our work. Here are colleagues Sušac, my colleague Rodić and I, at your disposal, if you have any questions regarding this part, since the first law has passed by accepting from members of the Commission from the House of Representatives, as solutions that have been accepted in the House of Peoples. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1265	Thank you. There is no business debate here, but if anyone wants further information without debate, because these laws have been passed. Here's Mr. Džaferović's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a need to comment as an MP on a harmonised text by the commissions of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when the text of the ID law is Wednesday. I don't know where this is going to take us all together, but it's my impression that, not my impression, but it's certainly so, that the Commission that matched this text went one more step further, when it comes to the appearance of the BiH citizen's ID card. I just want to remind you, I won't be taking much time. The position of the international community, the OHR's position, the position of the Council of Europe, the position of the Council of Europe's resolution, was such as the original text that came into parliamentary procedure, that on a personal map BiH citizens could only be the name of the state.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1267	Dear envoy, I beg you...
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1268	Very, very briefly, Mr. Chairman, there's really no need. I beg you to spare me. It can only stand the name of the state. Afterwards, this house, of course with my opposition, agreed to, in addition to the name of the state, at the request of the party, at the request of the citizens in the personal card, the name of the entity can also be entered. But this home was also adopted by a mechanism, which reads that an employee who issues a personal card is obliged to register on a personal card next to the name of the state and the name of an entity, is to give one warning that such a request could be harmful to him, as it may interfere with communication with that correction, as a future correction to be used in 59 international traffic. Now from the law, therefore, the essence of the alignment is that the law is now erasing that warning. So no longer an official has the obligation to warn a citizen, who requires that the entity's name be entered on a personal map to warn him of the harmful consequences of the act. So a step further went and I, of course, went, as last time I was deeply against such a solution. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2001-11-29-0.u1269	I thank Mr. Džaferović. I'm really warning you I'm gonna stick to the Rules of Procedure. There is no need to repeat the discussion or parts of the soy discussions already known to this home. If you have needs, public address, then I can serve all these rooms in the Parliamentary Assembly as well as the media present. Unless there's a question, but I'm just saying questions not abuse of reporting, I'm asking for a statement, in accordance with the Business Service, of article 95 after the report was heard. Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Debt Act. Who is it to accept a report on reconciliation? Unanimity. BiH citizen's ID law Who's in favour, I'm talking about the report? - 11 for who's against it? - Two abstentions? - 2 I find that the entity and each other have adopted this report. The Law on the Protection of Personal Data – Report on Consensus. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I also find that this report has received the required majority and entity majority. This exhausted 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Before the beginning, for technical reasons, before the beginning of the 12th session, I'm giving a five-minute break.
