ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e28	The representatives Eirik Sivertsen and Cecilie Myrseth, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From May 22 through May 24 to take part in religious freedom events, and receive a religious freedom prize, in Washington. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the commodity, Solveig Schytz, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e57	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e62	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Urbø, Sandra Borch, Ivar Odnes, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for the introduction of full rights-based VAT compensation for voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e67	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e83	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and the Councils of State Per Sandberg and Terje Søviknes will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e92	The government submitted to the Stortinget proposals on the obligation system for cod trawlers in North Norway in March 2017. The matter created a lot of debate and commitment along the coast. The Council of State chose to draw the matter before it was finished, since he did not get a majority in favour of his view. Since the fall, the Minister for Fisheries has announced that he will present a new case to the Stortinget about changes in the obligation system, which the government considers so important that it is also stated in the Jeleia declaration. The working party has been and is positive to it, as we have long arranged for the obligations to be adjusted to ensure that they work in line with the assumptions. In view of the expectations that the Minister for Fisheries himself has created in the fishing industry and in the political environment that we could expect the announcement this spring, I sent a written question last week to the Council of State about when we can expect to receive the notification of duty to the Stortinget. The Council of State would not respond to this, but indicated that there have been investigations on the Storting in order to get broad support for the proposal in place. When it is being investigated, it must also be expected that there are proposals that are adjusted in line with the likely majority position, a majority that it should be well known should not go in the direction of wanting to wind up the system. The question to the Council of State is whether he and the government have adjusted their own policies in the matter, whether he wants to discharge their duties, or whether he has a view that the majority of the Stortinget has turned in his favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e103	It is correct, as the representative points out, that a new notification of obligations is to be promoted on the Jeløya platform. But I have also been quite clear that I chose to draw this message because in the process that was the last round, I did not manage to gather any majority at all in the Stortinget. The fact that there was to be a message for treatment that we couldn't get a majority for any elements about would only create frustration and not predictability for the industry at all. That is why I have now gone several rounds of parties on Stortinget to see if there has been any movement in terms of notification of obligations. It hasn't been. There are also parties on the Stortinget that now want to move the processing of a new obligation message in parallel with the Eiden Committee, i.e. the Committee on Quotas. I have listened to this, and I will see it in the future before I may promote a new duty message for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e108	As late as April 5, Sandberg said that he had three big jobs in front of him, one was doing something about the obligation system. Also in the speech to the Fishing boat annual meeting in February, a new big message was announced with the same objective as the last one, namely to wind up. Where the various parties on the Stortinget stand in this case, is well known, since the minister had to withdraw the matter last year. I wonder if the Council of State can explain what has happened during the last month, since he now wings and says that he may not be going to submit a message at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e115	It is possible that the undersigned did not get what the other parties had to believe about the obligation system, but at least I have not registered that neither the Workers' Party nor any other parties have had any policy or view of the obligation message. Another thing is that you want to do something about the obligation system, but something concrete, either from the Workers' Party or from other parties, at least I haven't received any signals about. Nor now when I was experimenting with Stortinget, among others. with the Workers' Party, there were signs that there was a desire to make some changes to the obligation message. That's why I think it's wise that I and the government wait for this and maybe see it in connection with the Committee on Quotas, as some parties on the Stortinget want. Providing an obligation message that in turn will create a situation in which no majority is established for any change in any direction in the Storting would only create frustration and dissatisfaction in the industry along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e120	It opens for follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e125	When you claim that you are investigating the Stortinget, one of the most important things is that you have a proposal to test yourself with. According to what I have registered, the minister has not had his own proposal to investigate with the parties, except that you want to keep what you had last, namely to liquidate. In addition, there have been no signs that he wants to negotiate, for example. what was the Greatness, at least the Workers' Party, view, that one wants to have duties, but that one wants to tighten them up and make adjustments that make them work as they should. The question is whether the Council of State is at all open to change its own policy to be in line with a majority on the Grand Council, which the Council of State expresses its wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e132	History shows that the government provided the marine food industry message, and then a decision was made in the Stortinget that I and the government followed up, including. by dropping a sample to look at all the obligations. This led to a setting that did not come fully to Stortinget. I presented an obligation message, by negotiating with parties on the Stortinget, who initially had a majority, but unfortunately lost the majority through a process. Then the government has not changed its policy. The government is willing to negotiate results to put in place an obligation system that works for the best of all. All the parties I have received signals from, want to change the obligations. When the Workers' Party now says that they want to tighten up – they also tried that in 2010, but then they put it in the drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e137	I ask again because I think you talk a lot about it. The most important question is whether the government is willing to remove the desire to discharge the obligations. That's the one. The second is, do you have a proposal, a draft that you want to submit to the Stortinget? That is the way the parliamentary system works: a proposal is made, and then the parties on the Grand Duchy are negotiating and agreeing. Are you willing to try to remove the policy that has been put forward in the past, with the noise that followed, and try to reach an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e142	I repeat, the government and the undersigned have adjusted their policies from the outset. It doesn't hold for the majority in the Storting, even if it was initially. Then I also say that I and the government are willing to adjust to put in place a system that works better than today. My starting point, of course, is in line with the first draft I made, but precisely based on the fact that there was no majority for that, I've been experimenting with different parties on the Stortinget. I get no feedback on what these parties want, and then it's hard for me to put forward a proposal for the Storting that brings together the Storting, which is important for the industry. We cannot now present proposals that create even more frustration and uncertainty in the industry. What the industry needs now, what the coast needs now, is security, security and predictability, and I'm going to ensure that by presenting a mission message that creates majority and assembly in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e148	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e153	When the government drew the down payment message about the obligation system, it was a historical event. The Central Party has not succeeded in finding any government councils other than Per Sandberg that have pulled a junk message when it has not been associated with a choice. The center party is busy finding a solution that secures the coast, but it seems that the government is only busy with systems that secure radiation companies. I was also exposed to these so-called probes. I had a certain expectation that there were some thoughts there – what should we do to make it better to land this fish along our coast and contribute to the creation of value? The only thing about a nice coffee chat, that's okay, but it's not very constructive. So my question is, can we expect the Council of State to take the initiative to come up with ideas on how to secure the coast and the creation of value along the coast in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e164	Yes, my intention and the government's intention is to ensure more employment and growth along the coast. We've been doing that for almost five years. It's going reasonably well in North Norway, it's going reasonably well along our coast, it's being built, it's being established – it's growing in almost all areas of fishing. Industry is marginal, that's what's the starting point for creating employment. But it is clear that when some systems are changed, and many appear to be museum guards, it is also difficult to grasp strategies such as creating whole-yearly jobs, more processing, more processing – when you don't want to change anything. If you want to get even more speed in the marine food industry along the coast, you need to change something, and I haven't had an understanding and a desire to change anything -- at least not from the Center Party, who wants everything to last as it has always been.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e169	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e174	I'm talking about probing, but the council doesn't talk to me, the council doesn't talk to SV. And just to put it like this: there are multiples if the government and the SV go together, if we find a good solution, so especially actively he doesn't have any work to do with this. The obligation system is a running scandal, we're all kind of a bunch of people about that. It's a hundred thousand tons of fish, it would fill the whole Storting if we had collected everything here, and it doesn't really follow the intentions of what was the arrangement, which was that one would give fish to the trawlers to deliver it to the coast. Now it's just 10 pst. which is delivered to the coast, and there are only three major actors who are interested in this – far from the scheme. Then I wonder: OK, the Council of State has withdrawn the obligation message, but then the Council of State has to do something to make sure that the scheme follows the intention at least. What has the Council of State done to fix and arrange, so that one follows the more purpose of the obligation we already have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e183	There's nothing to suggest that the obligation system as it stands today is broken by someone in some way. It's checked all the time. Everyone follows this system, the structure and duties that lie there today, which are established by the red-greens. So there's no breach of this. But when I haven't talked to SV and Fylkesnes, it's because Fylkesnes and SV are the only ones who have put the cards on the table. I know where SV stands in this case. My challenge is that I don't know where the other parties are. SV has been clear and clear about the direction you want in terms of the obligation system, it says respect, but unfortunately I don't think SV's solution is for the best for the coast. Turning the clock back, as requested by SV, with regard to the obligation system and establishment along the coast, will unfortunately lead to less growth, less employment and closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e190	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e195	It surprises me that the Council of State minimizes the scandal that the obligation system is actually. We had a compulsory commission that said that the scheme is far from what was intended for the scheme. And the message from Stortinget, when we dealt with this and gave the government the assignment to start this work, was to get a system that was more in line with purpose. So the state council is standing here and saying that this is what it's meant to be, it's completely wrong. We wanted a proposal for a new scheme that is more in line with the intention, and that is exactly what SV is proposing. We – over a 20-year period – are going to bring that fish back to the coast, and what we think is the future. But the council doesn't do anything. He takes some probing, a coffee chat with someone here and there, but nothing happens to the scheme itself. It seems that the Council of State is comfortable with the condition of things. What does he intend to do to make the scheme today more in line with his purpose, as the Storting has asked the government to fix it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e202	That's directly wrong what's being said here. I have followed up to the point and pointed out what the Storting has asked me to do, in all respects, but the Storting would not accept what you got. You couldn't create a majority for what I put forward. Based on this sample, which sat and went through the obligation system, as the Storting asked me to do, I put down an expert selection. Then the expert committee comes with some conclusions, and then you don't like that in Stortinget. This is a reality, and I just have to respect it. But I have done everything I can to do something about this duty system, because it is scandalous, as the representative points out. I agree, and that is why I put forward an obligation message that actually took away this scandal, so that we got it in place and got predictability for the industry, for the coast. Then it's also directly wrong to say that the fish are not landed along the coast. There's never been so much land along the coast, especially in North Norway, as it's been done in recent years. And the processing rate is actually increasing. There are several fishermen, there are several boats. So it's going reasonably well, and it's wrong to say that it's going badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e209	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e214	My question goes to the Council of Søviknes. 2.9 million. liters of water per second is a lot of water, but it's the water masses that just now pass Solbergfoss in Glomma, while we stand here – water from Jotunheimen, from Rørosvidda, from Rondane and from many other places in the East after a very snowy winter. Spring floods are not uncommon in Norway, but climate change – with extreme weather such as heavy and more frequent rains – will make floods and go more common, not only now, when it is near season for floods, but also elsewhere in the year. Local communities, businesses and individuals will more often stand powerless when water penetrates and hurts. The insurance industry fears that the payments after this flood will exceed €0.5 billion. kr. This is not the exception, this is the new reality. At the same time, the NVE says they need 200 million. extra bet each year for the next four years to reduce the risk of loss of life and damage to buildings and infrastructure. Anyone who can count sees that four years with that kind of appropriations will pay off quickly, compared to the payments made by the insurance companies. The social price of destruction is enormous, and this problem does not go away. The centre party has lifted these appropriations into its alternative budget, but as the water flows into the people's land, into the house and down into the cellars, the government does nothing – nothing to take concrete action to mitigate future damage. What is the explanation that the government refuses to take on how big a challenge we have, and how much it costs us not to do anything? Why doesn't the government want to invest in better flood and slip protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e228	Let me start by saying that I do not agree with the description given here, that the government does not do anything. This government has more than doubled the investment in flood and scaffolding and NVE appropriations over the previous four-year period compared to what the red-greens did in their last four-year period. Let me just mention some numbers. From 2010 to 2013, 149 million were granted per year. SEK, 180 million. SEK, 226 million. NOK 237 million. kr for this under the red-green. Then came the blue-blue government, which from 2014 increased this to 339 million, respectively. SEK, 378 million. SEK, 412 million. SEK, 389 million. kr and – for this year – 354 million. kr following the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. So it's a doubling of the appropriations. There are three areas of focus on which we focus. One is flood and culvert mapping, which is important in order to avoid the integration of municipalities into new risk areas. The second is physical measures to mitigate the danger of flood and culvert areas and of existing construction and infrastructure. The third is alert and alert. We have seen good examples of this in our – during the spring flood – working well. I want to pay tribute to the municipalities and the county officials, who have set up good emergency procedures and worked well with landowners to limit the damage of the ordinary spring flood that we have seen this spring. We have also changed the warning procedures, so that it is now notified directly from the NVE to the individual municipality that is being affected. So the government doesn't do anything about this, it's completely wrong. There is still a great need. We work purposefully to implement the physical security measures that the NVE has registered are necessary according to its list of approx. 2.7 B.C.E. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e237	In a letter to the Ministry, the NVE writes that today’s level of funding means that society does not benefit from the risk-mitigation measures and that citizens have to live with significantly higher risks — significantly higher risks — than those accepted for new settlements. In an NTB interview to the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 May, the Council of State stated: ‘NVE must give priority to its assistance to municipalities in order to maximise the return of society in terms of reducing the risk of damage. It takes additional time to plan and build security measures.» Yes, of course it takes time. That's why we have to get started. NVE's ready. It seems to me that the Council of State is trying to shift responsibility to the NVE and to the municipalities and local authorities for lack of funding, and that is a strange way to disclaim responsibility. So who is responsible for appropriations and getting ahead of work, so that people don't live in uncertainty and uncertainty about a flood that has been notified to the highest degree? Is it the NVE, or is it the Council of State that is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e249	Now I am not going to instruct the representative about the constitutional conditions, but it is therefore the Stortinge which is the granting authority in Norway. The government is submitting a draft budget, and then it is being negotiated here in the Storting. We register the NVE's bet on the next year's budget. We will come back to this — of course — in the context of the submission of the 2019 state budget in October. There is a great need, and we agree with the description provided by the NVE – that is my specialist directorate – that we have to expect major challenges related to floods and migration in the coming years, related to climate change. So it's important to stress that the spring flood we've seen this year is more of a normal flood situation that we've unfortunately had on different occasions over the years, when there's been a lot of snow in the mountains and a fast temperature rise in the spring, possibly in the worst case in combination with a lot of rainfall. But we're working specifically on this, and then it'll necessarily take some time to plan and physically implement security measures according to the priority list that the NVE has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e260	Follow-up questions are given – first Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e265	This is about people in many places in Norway, including people in Uppland and Gudbrandsdalen. The Gudbrand valley bed has grown far beyond its widths, and the water level in Mjøsa has increased by more than a meter above the maximum control height. It is likely that Norway's largest lake will rise by half a meter until the weekend. Several places water comes in where it's not supposed to. I mention campsites, properties like Svanatedet, boat ports like Vingnes and Strandtorget, roads like E6 in Fåvang, large areas like Jørstadmoen and in the center of Otta – I mention in flang. Eight and more sites are waiting for remedial and preventive measures to prevent development. At Ott, for example, they're getting. non-constructed new school until flood protection is in place. Furthermore, it is said that it is six times more expensive to repair than to prevent the destruction of floods. Does the Council of State see the enormous consequences of the flood, and when does the Council of State have a concrete plan of action and priorities to come along with, to resolve the unsustainable situation of these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e272	We have a concrete plan through the apparatus that the NVE has over it, and the list that they have with registered insurance measures, of 2.7 billion. kr. It is targeted, according to priorities over which you get the most back for the money in terms of reducing the risk to the population. The government takes seriously the security of people in flood and escape. It is also important to stress that the situation we have now had in the Baltic region related to the spring flood is a relatively normal situation that we experience from year to year – unfortunately. It is a good job, and it has been spent 350 million from 2014 to 2017 under this government. kr in the affected counties. I myself was on Hamar on Monday and flew over Mjösa and the areas up there to see this by self-esteem, and it is clear that it is challenging when you stand in the middle of it. But I would like to emphasise again: it is being done well on the emergency side, it is being done well by the NVE, and we are taking this very seriously from the government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e279	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e284	History seems to be repeating itself. Last autumn, a few days before the submission of the state budget for 2018, the Minister for Oil and Energy, together with the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, visited those affected by flooding in the South. The Minister of Oil and Energy acknowledged that, in the years to come, we will have a flood of new floods and that more money was needed for prevention. A few days later, the State budget proposed a cut in the effort to prevent floods. This weekend, as we have heard, it has once again flooded into parts of the country, and again the Council of State recognises the need for more money for flood prevention. But in the revised budget that came yesterday, there is not one extra crown for flood prevention measures. So the question is, how many times does the Council of State have to admit that more money is needed before he actually comes with the money the NVE has asked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e291	Let me first stress that last year the situation in South Africa was an extreme situation, and it showed that the need in that region is great. Similarly, we have seen elsewhere in the country. The fact that in the 2018 budget we had lower funding for NVE and flood and escape protection than in the years 2016 and 2017 was due to the fact that we had the special incentive packages after the 2014 oil price drop, which was targeted specifically at the South and Western countries. As this type of stimulant was no longer needed, the extra bet was reduced from 2016 and 2017 and remained at a slightly lower level in 2018. But it's still much higher than what the red-greens had when they crashed. So we're betting on flood and slip protection, we're going to bet on it, but as I said, it takes time for the NVE to plan in cooperation with the municipalities and implement physical security measures with the sharing model you now have, with 80 pst. State funding and 20 pst. local funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e300	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e305	This is an important topic, and it's probably not the last time we're discussing this, neither in question time nor any other time. In the last five years, 727 million have been raised. kr more, I think, among other things. by pressure from the Christian People's Party in the state budget negotiations. It's important because this is about vows. But this is also about other things. It's also about knowledge, and it's about adapting to a reality where climate adaptation becomes more important. One of the ideas that the county has initiated to do this is to get to a climate adaptation centre in Sogn and Fjordane – where one tries to get an environment outside the NVE, where one team of KS and the county, which has now started a pilot study, can get with Westland research and the Hojskolen in the West to use the county for a living laboratory, which is about being able to test out better solutions. I would like to ask the Council of State if he is aware of these plans, and if he thinks such a centre might have been useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e317	Yeah, I'm vaguely familiar with those plans. It can definitely have something to do with it, because knowledge is quite essential in this work, as in a lot of other things. We are facing new challenges related to climate change and flood and migration situations. We see in particular that this also affects urban areas, with flood problems that we haven't had as much of before, because now we get more concentrated rainfall in a short time. The NVE has gradually built its competence on this. We experience that they are welcomed in the municipalities, and that the municipalities are pleased with the competence and support they receive from the NVE. It is also important to gradually build up competences in municipalities, not least in terms of spatial planning, in order to avoid building ourselves into new risk areas. It is the very best prevention we can stand for. But I would like to take a closer look at the initiative related to KS and a centre in Sogn and Fjordane, and then we'll get back to it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e328	Runar Seestad - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e333	NVE has reported an increased need of 200 million. kr annually. The working party added 160 million. kr in its alternative state budget. The need is well documented. It is also well documented through various reports that prevention is a lot cheaper than repairing and replacing injuries in retrospect, not talking about the human influences. We see that the need is there, we see that the plans are there. It's a lack of funding. What will the Minister do to ensure that the appropriations are more proportionate to the need and the real situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e340	This is a topic that the government has discussed at every budgetary procedure, with regard to bets in different areas, of course, but also specifically on the flood and gliding situation, based on the fact that we have climate changes, which I referred to earlier. Of course, we will come up with an up-to-date estimate, investments and appropriations in our budget proposal for 2019. As I said, it will come in October. Let me just take the opportunity to point out that when, earlier in the discussion here, appropriations were called for in the revision, it was not natural for the government this year to add extra appropriations to the flood and escape, because we have not had any extraordinary events that were not known when we left the budget for 2018. The spring flood we now had is an ordinary spring flood, which we unfortunately are going to experience from time to time. But if situations arise that require extra appropriations during the year, the government will, of course, come to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e347	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e352	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's shocking messages and pictures coming from Gaza these days. 55 people have been reportedly killed and over 2,200 injured after Israeli military fires opened with both sharp ammunition and rubber bullets against demonstrators in connection with the U.S. embassy opening in Jerusalem. Israel’s use of violence has been strongly condemned worldwide. There have been clear protests, including: by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and Amnesty International. The Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories is maintained by brutal violence and repression. There's no excuse to kill civilians this way. All states have a right to defend themselves, but it is a mockery to use it as an argument to allow an occupying power to shoot unarmed civilians. An important reason for the situation we are in right now is the irresponsible and dangerous policies of the United States in the Middle East. With both the termination of the Iran agreement and the opening of the embassy in Jerusalem, we once again see that the United States in this region behaves like an elephant in a glass shop, where something is shattered wherever they turn. The Swedish Foreign Minister Margot Wallström was very clear yesterday that the United States bears a great responsibility for what has happened in the last few days, and she clearly communicated it: ‘Everyone warned against this, but the United States did. I believe that the United States bears a very great responsibility, and I can't see that there's a lot of reason to celebrate when you see so many dead and wounded people." My question is whether Norway's Minister for Foreign Affairs is as clear as Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs on the responsibility of the United States for what has happened in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e368	What has happened in the last few days is tragic, and we have also been very clear out there and explained that shooting at demonstrators with sharpness is unacceptable. There are multiple events that are now coming at the same time. One is that Monday and Tuesday were meant to culminate in six weeks of demonstrations every Friday by the Palestinians, and we had embassy opening and also marking that it was 70 years since the establishment of the State of Israel. All of this came at the same time. We have similarly been aware that we believe it is a very unwise decision by the United States unilaterally to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, without leaving it to everyone else in the international community – with a few exceptions – that is, a question of negotiation between the parties where both Israelis and Palestinians can claim each of their parts of Jerusalem. We've thought that it's a very unwise policy, which we've always warned against can increase the voltage level in a region that's already very tense. I have had conversations over the past 24 hours with both the Government of Israel and as late as half an hour and three quarters ago with the Prime Minister of the Palestinians, and also had close contact with the High Representative of the EU, Mogherini, because these are issues that we see very clearly also going to infect each other. When the representative mentions the Iran agreement, it is a chapter separately, but we have also warned very clearly about what the United States is now doing, simply because we are already seeing changes to the worse in an already very unstable region. The combination of all these things, without having an alternative plan or an alternative proposal for how to solve these situations, unfortunately contributes to an escalation that goes in the negative direction, and unfortunately it goes very fast. I'm worried about what we can get to see the next few days. Fortunately, yesterday was calmer than one could expect, but much of it was unfortunately also due to the fact that a lot of funerals were carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e377	I would then like to thank you for your answer and for the fact that the Foreign Minister is clear that the way in which the Americans proceed is irresponsible. I hope that the Norwegian authorities will communicate it clearly in the days to come. It's our greatest ally this is about, and it also gives Norway, as an ally country with the United States, a special responsibility to say very clearly from, and to keep the Americans responsible for what is now happening in Palestine and in the Middle East otherwise. Then there are slightly different reactions from different Western countries. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been in contact with the Israeli Government, and we see that some other countries, including Ireland, have formally protested by calling the Israeli ambassador into the carpet. We believe that such a reaction would also be good on the part of Norway. That is why my question about the Minister for Foreign Affairs is about to call the Israeli ambassador.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e384	First, I would like to stress that in my contact with both the Israeli government and the Palestinian authorities, I have also been very clear on the responsibility that now everyone has to calm down the situation and not escalate further. At the level of office, we have also had contacts with some of the Palestinian fractions in order to avoid an escalation at the border, because it has also been an important point to convey, both to the EU representative and to Israelis and Palestinians, that it is important not to escalate it further. Then our choice – my choice – has been to make direct contact with the Israeli authorities and the Israeli government. I have been in contact with Regional Minister Hanegbi, who is responsible for the AHLC in the Israeli government, and is the one who works most on these issues, both in terms of ending the spiral of violence and in terms of contributing to long-term development in Gaza. There are projects that we work together on in the AHLC, but my concern now is that these projects are going to stop, precisely because you get very concerned about the acute situation – naturally – as well as that we need to have a look forward to solving the situation that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e391	There will be follow-up questions – Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e396	I believe it is essential that we are clear, in the dialogue with both parties, that the main responsibility for doing something about the spiral of violence lies with the occupying power, and there is a great difference in protests against a frontier fence under an occupation and shooting with sharp force from the occupying power. I could imagine raising the question of a United Nations investigation, because that demand has now come from a number of teams, from the UN Secretary-General, from the EU, from Germany and from Belgium, but on Monday evening the United States stopped proposing a UN Security Council review. I also asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to support an independent investigation earlier this winter, when we saw this escalation. Then I got the answer – in a written reply from the Foreign Minister – that it was a national responsibility, and that Israel did not want it now. I wonder if the government's line is now different, and whether the Foreign Minister can clearly say that Norway will support an independent investigation under the auspices of the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e402	I think it's important to sort something out. It is such that all countries under international law have a responsibility and must be responsible for carrying out independent investigations. That's our position, like most of the international community. There has been confusion about what was actually proposed in the Security Council yesterday, and so far there are relatively few who have made proposals on international investigations, but they have been engaged in independent investigation and credible investigation. It is a requirement we made behind already 30 March-1 April, when these protests began. We still believe that it is very important to do so, precisely because, under international law and under the international rules and agreements that exist, it is absolutely essential to carry out investigations and reviews when one sees a situation like the one we, among other things. So yesterday, which is that day with the most killed on Gaza since 2014. This is why Norway has been behind it, and we have been clear about it both in response to the Stortinget and on the outside, and we are still going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e407	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e412	It is brutal and unacceptable what we experience in Gaza no. The signal from Stortinget and how I belong to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is that this must be stopped immediately. The situation shows that there is a peace solution we need to put in place. We are experiencing a Prime Minister Netanyahu who has not exactly contributed to it. Many of his own people in Israel react to his extreme thinking, in part, when it is just a matter of bringing about a peace solution and a two-state solution. We also experience Hamas’ cynical use of civilians in the conflict we now have. We know that Norway has played a role in previous peace talks. When the U.S. plays out on the sidebar, do we take initiatives? Does Norway now play a role in creating peace in this part of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e417	As the representative says, it is absolutely crucial that the parties return to the negotiating table. There have been no direct talks between the parties on peace issues and two-state solutions over four years. At the same time, our clear position has been that these decisions are now taken, for example. on the removal and recognition of the capital of an embassy is something which leads the parties further away from the negotiating table. Therefore, Norway has actively used our role as leader of the AHLC, the donor country group, to bring together the parties around the table. We announced an extraordinary meeting on 31 January, which was a constructive meeting. The themes are the practical projects and, in particular, Gaza. That's also the Israelis' concern, because they see that if you can't solve that challenge, there's also a bigger security problem. We continue with the practical projects to form the basis for further talks on peace resolution. There is something that the parties want Norway to play a role in, and we take that role.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e422	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e427	My question will probably go to the Minister of Foreign Affairs once again. Audun Lysbakken called President Trump on 8 May to withdraw the United States from the nuclear agreement with Iran. The United States is our most important ally, a central trading party, a power that Norway has had stable and good relations for a long time – relations that have ours and are still very important to Norway. Now we're experiencing an American administration that's embarked on a new, more confrontational, less conservative foreign policy line. President Trump has withdrawn the United States from the nuclear agreement with Iran. This was in spite of the fact that Iran has adhered to the terms of the agreement, despite the decisive nature of the agreement when it comes to non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, and despite strong warnings from important allies and contracting parties, such as the United Kingdom, France and Germany. In addition, we know that last year President Trump also chose to withdraw the United States from the very important Paris agreement, the climate agreement. Under this administration, the United States has also lost sight of trade agreements and introduced barriers to trade, for example. steel and aluminium. My question is: how does the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess this development of our most important allies, and what strategy does Norway and the government have with an American foreign policy that we can best say is changing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e438	That's a good and important question. If I can only say two words about the nuclear agreement first: this is an agreement that Norway has consistently supported – we continue to do so. We believe the agreement is important and correct. Yes, it has its weaknesses, but it wants any such agreement, and you don't solve the weaknesses by getting rid of the whole deal. There is no automatic way that the nuclear agreement disappears as such because the United States is going out, but it creates a very difficult situation, which is reinforced by a significant internal political pressure in Iran from those who do not want the nuclear agreement. I had a conversation with the EU High Representative, Mogherini, late last night, after talks with Iran's Foreign Minister, Zarif. They're very busy using the time that's ahead -- even if it's short -- to save the nuclear agreement. Norway contributes to this. Among other things, our technical expertise in some areas is desirable, and we contribute to that. To the broader picture: It's quite right, as the representative Hareide says, that we are now experiencing a clear shift of line from the American side in the very central areas of Norwegian interest. It is very worrying that you, for example: in the field of trade, operate in breach of both WTO and multilateral rules, which have served both us and the United States very well for decades, and which in many ways are a system that is laboriously built after the Second World War just so that the strongest right should not be what was in force. That's also why we're very busy working with both the United States and close allies in Europe to try to influence the United States in a different direction. We also experience that, in particular in the field of trade, in order to use the example, there is considerable political disagreement within the United States. This means that the Republicans of Congress are far more free-trade friendly and also contribute in this way to press the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e445	I thank you for the good answer. I want to challenge further on just what we see now is related to the nuclear agreement with Iran. Paradoxically, Iran has said that they want to stick to the agreement, and so has the other parties to the agreement. The U.S. embassy now is that they consider sanctions not only against Iran, but also against the countries that are willing to trade with Iran. When Norwegian companies face the choice between the US market or the Iranian market, most of them will probably choose the US market. My question is, how does Norway view these distractions and the situation? Does one here consider coordinating the way we meet this with Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e452	The protection of financial engagement in Iran by the European side is at the heart of the possibility of continuing the agreement. Iran has signaled that they can be willing to discuss this, and they do now, but I think at the same time that we should be aware that the situation is very difficult, and it is not given that Iran is going to continue to be in the agreement, even though they have said they are willing to discuss a continuation. It will depend on what the delivery can be. We coordinate it closely with the European Union. In addition, it is clear that the uncertainty about whether the US was going to be in the agreement or to withdraw from the agreement that has been there for months has also created a difficult climate for business that wants to invest in different ways. Our embassy in Iran is working a lot with Norwegian companies to draw the risk picture and to contribute as best you can, but we do not yet know the totality of what the Americans are going to do on the sanction page. We do not change our rules, but Norwegian companies can indirectly be affected if Americans also have sanctions against European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e459	It opens for follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e464	Here, too, the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that Iran considers not to be in the agreement – at least we have to be banned. This may result in their resuming their nuclear program and developing nuclear weapons. What will this lead to for land like Egypt and Saudi Arabia? Do they push the dust off their planes to get guns like that? Putin has declared that he will improve Russia's nuclear weapons capabilities. Trump, on his side, has communicated, via Twitter, that the United States needs to strengthen and expand its nuclear capacities. So that's a lot of worrying signals. The positive thing is that we can get an agreement between the United States and North Korea, but it's also very uncertain. The United States has also not strengthened its credibility as contracting parties to what one has done recently, and it can also affect the dialogue with North Korea. So the question is, how does one now view the setbacks that we have when it comes to nuclear disarmament?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e476	Our two main concerns relating to the possible lapse of the nuclear agreement are what it will mean for the international non-proliferation regime and the ability of the international community to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The second is the potential regional impact. It is, as the representative Hareide himself is concerned about, in particular, whether Egypt and Saudi Arabia will acquire nuclear weapons and relaunch their programmes. We also have a significant concern about what could be the outcome of the credibility of the IAEA. They have now carried out 10 inspections in Iran. Iran has adhered to its part of the agreement. The IAEA is now starting its preparatory work on the establishment of a North Korea inspection regime. However, if it turns out that the United States is repeating its assurances that they really do not trust the IAEA, it may have an impact on any future agreement with North Korea – I might stress – and at the same time it may have a negative impact on the non-proliferation regime overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e483	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e488	The signal from the US to withdraw from the nuclear agreement with Iran seems to have consequences in other areas as well. I read with interest an article in Dagbladet on 15 May, where Suzanne Dimaggio spoke out. According to Dagbladet, she has, among other things, Liaison between representatives from the United States and North Korea here in Norway. In my opinion, by breaking the Iran agreement, Trump has undermined the negotiations with North Korea before they are going on at all. After all, North Korea has viewed Iran as a diplomatic road map for facilitating sanctions. And when the U.S. actually says that regardless of whether you stick to the sanctions, it doesn't mean anything to us, it can have major consequences. Tonight, North Korea warns that the country may withdraw from the planned meeting with the United States, because it is a unilateral agreement, where only North Korea will descend nuclear weapons. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about this? And is this a concern Norwegian government powers will communicate to the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e495	The Norwegian authorities have in a very clear and clear way communicated their concerns about the Iran agreement and that it risks falling away when the United States withdraws. We have communicated very clearly the concerns we have about the regional situation and a possible increase in tension in an already vastly tense region. And we've also been very concerned about the consequences of the international non-proliferation regime. As Mr. Navarsete rightly points out, what is now closest, as well as trying to work on the Iran agreement, is the possible talks to take place between North Korea and the United States. It is a concern that we fully share, because in this context one also depends on trust between the parties in order for it to work. I was in Japan last week and also talked to my Japanese colleague about these issues. Japan and Norway have a very consistent line on this: in the current discussions, we must not ease the pressure on North Korea, the diplomatic and economic pressure, until real action is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e504	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e509	When we read the revised national budget yesterday, the MDG got a kind of déjà vu. The government's carbon capture policy has slipped into a pattern we recognize from the time of the red-green government. There are still new delays. Nearly two years ago, State Council Søviknes said that an investment decision was to be taken in spring 2019, but the government is now postponing the investment decision for Norway's carbon capture and storage efforts for up to two years. Furthermore, the design of carbon capture and storage at Yara is cut, the project at Norcem is continued, while the combustion plant at Klemetsrud is put on hold. So deadlines are set and pushed on as it approaches. Now almost five years have passed since the government took over, and we still don't know about and when we'll see a project that works. For us in the Green Party, it is strange to see that a government that is so fanatical about even more oil and gas, does such a half-hearted job with carbon capture, which is the only technology that might have made oil and gas a little more sustainable for a few years. Norwegian Industry, yes Norwegian Oil and Gas, NHO, LO, NTNU, SINTEF, Norcem, Fortum and a wide range of heavy industrial actors are very impatient to get started. But the government's postponement creates unstable and unpredictable conditions for industrial players. Reprioritising resources, losing skills and weakening internal project organisations are forced. The party of state councils likes to be seen as a friend of industry. In view of this: After 20 years of investigations, is the Council satisfied with the progress of the Norwegian CCS operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e520	Let me first stress that Norway has had and has a leading role in global carbon capture and storage work, CCS. We have worked on that position through a long-term work by several governments, focusing on both research and piloting related to the technology centre in Mongstad and now, in recent years, on the planning of the large demonstration project, the full scale project, with both capture, transport and storage – a whole value chain. The overall presentation of the CCS in the revised national budget yesterday is an important new step in an industrial development that this demonstration project is now following. It has gone from the idea phase, potential studies and concept phase to the pre-projecting phase. So we're going to go ahead with pre-projecting on fishing, with Norcem – and possibly the Klemetsrud plant in Oslo, after we've got quality-proof new figures from there – and then, in consultation with Yara, we've decided to wind up their fishing project, because they have some uncertainties at the plant and believe that they can work better with CO 2 emissions in other areas within their industrial exposure. So now that we've got a new timeline, we're taking into account that we have to follow an industrial race here. It will take a little longer for us to reach an investment decision – now we are talking about 2020 instead of 2019, and that may go on in 2021. But we're clear on the timeline, so saying from the representative's side that we don't know anything about progress is completely wrong. We will have a qualitatively good project on the table for Stortinget when we propose a possible investment decision. Then we have to take the time we need to plan such a complicated and not least costly project as this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e534	The rationale of the Council of State is thin, as thin as the justification of the RNB, where reference is made to an external quality assurance body. The problem is that this report does not take sufficient account of learning curves. Among the reasons for postponing Klemetsrud are ‘long pipeline, fear of ammonia emissions near the big city and the organisation’s project experience’. A five-year perspective is used on the profitability of the pipeline, the ammin technology is the same on Norcem as on Klemetsrud. People live close to that, but it's drawn as negative only by Klemetsrud. Project experience is significantly stronger in Fortum, which is part of the organisation that actually built the CCS plant in Canada and which builds 50 such plants per year. It is used as an argument against Klemetsrud. Waste facilities are available worldwide. Here is an excellent occasion for so-called bio-CCS, not just climate-neutral, but climate-positive. The question is: why will the Council not create predictability for at least two installations to proceed in the run-up to the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e543	As presented in the revised national budget, we create predictability for the actors currently in the project. They are our most important partners if we are to succeed this time, and not end up as we did on the previous investment project in Mongstad – with a disaster. This must follow an industrial cycle, and we will use the necessary time – we are working on it right now – and quality assurance of the latest figures and information we have received from the Fortum Oslo Heating, the Klemetsrud plant, after they received comments and comments from the external quality assurance company in the autumn when they delivered their concept study. It focuses, among other things, on: on costs. Figures have now been provided indicating cost reductions. We want to ensure that we do that. In addition, the Klemetsrud plant has challenged its own project organisation, and Fortum, with its extensive international project experience, has become more involved in the project. It's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e548	There will be follow-up questions – Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e553	Capture, transport, storage of CO 2 will become basic social infrastructure in line with renovation, road, rail and electricity. We must seek to maximise the impact of these infrastructure investments, both in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible and to ensure optimal profitability in the long term. The more capture projects linked to an established CO 2 infrastructure, the lower the cost per tonne of CO 2 stored and the greater the climate impact. How will the Council of State ensure that we have economies of scale and cost-effective volumes when there is only one project that has been secured, and does the Council of State agree that it provides greater vulnerability to cost-effective industrial development and learning with just one project than with more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e570	Let me stress that all the scenarios for how to achieve the Paris agreement's CO 2 cut target show that you need CCS, especially from the 2030s and beyond. Both the International Energy Agency, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and other actors have agreed. We are now working on a demonstration project, the first whole value chain from capture, transport and storage. What's important here is to demonstrate that we can reduce costs, develop technology and do this as a commercial technology that can be used in large volumes globally from the 2030s onward. If we then push on this project to ensure that the quality of the project is good and get an investment decision in 2020/2021 instead of 2019, it is not crucial for the global investment in CCS that we need. We are now working closely with our international partners in order to also get an increased commitment and a possible scaling up of this in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e580	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e585	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A 70th birthday should be a party day. The marking now on Monday of Israel's 70th birthday as an independent state became unfortunately no party. In Gaza, 40,000 demonstrators at the border wall were met with tear gas and sharp shielding, and over 60 Palestinians were killed and up to 3,000 injured by shots released by Israeli soldiers. Monday became the bloodiest day in the conflict since the previous Gaza war in 2014. After the demonstrations in Easter, independent media reports could tell of unarmed demonstrators who were shot in the back of hundreds of feet. Hamas is by no means an innocent party to this conflict. 70 years ago Norway was among the first to recognise Israel. We want to cooperate with Israel and support Israel's future as a liberal democracy, but being a liberal democracy is deeply incompatible with the occupation of Israel's country. Now, unfortunately, it's the strongest right that applies. The Foreign Minister said in the Question Time instead, and she has also said in the media that she is concerned about a spiral of violence. But when unarmed demonstrators have been shot in the back, how can the Foreign Minister explain that it is a spiral of violence? Who is the one who bears the greatest responsibility for the situation we now face?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e594	As I had in my previous answers, our very clear message to everyone has been that the situation needs to be calmed down. This means that it is unacceptable to shoot with a sharp shot at demonstrators, but it is also not appropriate to help Hamas escalate in this way that Hamas clearly informed them that they wanted to do so at some point. That's why we've used the contacts that are, to help make you not very close to the limit value, and that way we can help escalate a situation. When we talk about a spiral of violence, it's because there's a very exciting situation in the region. It's very small that's going to happen before things happen that can exacerbate the situation further. That there were no major demonstrations yesterday is probably a sign that there were mainly funerals yesterday, but the situation may escalate again very quickly. That's exactly why we work both in the short term and in the long term. Yesterday I approved a payment for both fuel and medical assistance inside Gaza, so that you can help the hospitals that are now on emergency units to maintain their activity and care for those who are injured. At the same time, we must work long-term with the situation in Gaza. They're tragically bad. This is not just about projects that we are now working on, such as: a water treatment plant, which was the result of the previous AHLC meeting in March, but it is also a political reconciliation that enables the PA, the Palestinian self-government authorities, to take control of Gaza. That's an important part of the picture we see as long-term necessary to calm the situation. I'm worried that if we don't move on with the concrete projects or discussions about a two-state solution, we will see this kind of situation and this kind of unacceptable violence in very many situations in the future. That's something we want to avoid from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e605	The Jeløia Declaration states that Norway shall ‘establish a balanced position on the Middle East conflict’. We should do that in every possible conflict. But what I think is amazing is that the government is not clear enough about this about international law violations. We are more aware of international law violations when Russia commits them in Ukraine, but in this area there is much more balanced and not clear that there are violations of international law on the part of Israel. Why is it not clearer for the government to communicate the clear violations of international law committed by Israel in this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e610	That communication has been a very clear part of the communication of both this government and former governments – we are quite clear that the settlements of, for example, The West Bank is out of international law. We've been through that all along, and we've made no other political point of view than that. When we talk about a balanced approach, it's precisely because we have a special role as head of the donor country group, AHLC. We have a good fit with both parties and want to continue to do so in order to contribute to a solution to the conflict. Now there have been no direct peace talks between the parties over four years. We have to get back to a situation where once again one talks directly together about how a two-state solution can be realized. If not, I'm afraid that the situation we're now seeing is going to be a permanent situation. Then we believe that the role we have in using the AHLC presidency, in using contacts against both parties, is the right way to go to contribute to a peace settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e617	It opens for follow-up questions – Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e622	I want to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for what I think has been more good answers, and it seems that in this room she has more support in the opposition than she has among her own figures. On the bloodiest day in Gaza in four years, the main foreign politicians of the Progress Party started by saying that he would congratulate Israel and the United States. He also believed that it was natural for Norway to move our embassy within a year. I'm going to let the Foreign Minister not answer what she thinks about what her speakers say in the media on behalf of the government parties. What I would like to ask, on the other hand, is how Norway can clarify our policy. The situation in the Middle East is complicated, but the core is simple: a people are illegally occupied. The Labour Party has considered that Norway should follow other European countries and brands of goods coming from illegal land. We have been waiting a long time for a decision by the Foreign Minister. I'm not going to ask what she's decided on, I'm just going to get an answer about the process. My question will therefore be, When can we expect to have a decision on this important issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e629	As the representative is probably aware, this was the issue in Stortinget in December. There is no majority in the Stortingen for this, it only got the votes of the Workers' Party and SV. The government has therefore not found the basis for going further with that discussion, simply because there is no majority in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e634	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e639	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Twice the Norwegian people have said no by referendum to Norwegian membership of the EU. It has been a wise choice that has served Norwegian economy and Norwegian democracy well. We have been able to maintain Norwegian independence and freedom of action in key areas of fisheries policy, agricultural policy and trade policy. We have kept the Norwegian krona and an independent monetary policy. Nearly two years ago, the majority in the United Kingdom said the same thing as the majority in Norway has said twice that they would not be in the EU. The British will leave the EU to regain national rule of law and strengthen democracy. As a country that has chosen to stand outside the EU, we should have a great deal of understanding and reluctance in the British in the process. Brexit offers great challenges, but also great opportunities to strengthen cooperation with an important ally and our closest trading partner. In meeting with this, the government has acted very unwisely. First, Erna Solberg warned the British against leaving the EU. So the British did not follow the advice of Erna Solberg, but chose to go out anyway. Norway would not be able to send an invitation to the British to join the EFTA again. One has been negative about starting negotiations with the United Kingdom on a new agreement after Brexit, and one has presented a European strategy of 26 pages where the word brexit is mentioned once. All Central Party initiatives on a more positive attitude towards the United Kingdom, such as: by inviting the British back to EFTA, has been rejected. Then, suddenly, this week can read in British media that the Norwegian Prime Minister is not only positive that the British are going back into EFTA but that the British are going into the EEA as well. Therefore, there is reason to ask: What is Norway’s strategy? Is it to warn the British against going into the EEA, or is it to invite them in?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e653	There was a lot of work to be done here. Firstly, it is quite wrong that Norway is negative to negotiations with the United Kingdom, rather the opposite. However, in order for the United Kingdom to start negotiating with Norway before they leave the EU, they must apply to the EU to do so. They have not done so, and that is why we must wait with our negotiations until they are out of the EU, unless they then want to deliver such an application. The second is Brexit. The strategy deals with our relationship with the EU and our strategy on cooperation with the EU. The United Kingdom is leaving the EU, so it is natural that the strategy does not spend much time on Brexit, because our relationship with the EU will not be changed by Brexit, but our relationship with the United Kingdom does. That's exactly why we also work closely with the United Kingdom. We are concerned with good solutions, including transitional solutions that will apply to Norway. Our position has been clear all the way: we are open to considering a solution with an EFTA membership and thus also EEA membership for the United Kingdom. But we have to realize that it has different sides. It has advantages and disadvantages for Norway. We have two very different sizes of economies and arrangements on the economies. We have a little bit of different interests, maybe especially on the agricultural side. But first of all, this is the thing we didn't want to speculate about because the British themselves have repeatedly rejected an EEA solution. The whole point of the British Brexit model is that they want out of the common legislation, and the common legislation is a prerequisite for being in the EEA. They do not want to be part of the internal market; we have been very concerned about the integrity of the internal market. They want less free movement of persons; it is a prerequisite for being able to participate in the EEA. So from our point of view, we've said that if the United Kingdom and the British Government change their position, we're of course involved in discussing it, but it's not always a current issue, just because the British have repeatedly rejected that they want an EEA model.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e664	From the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Prime Minister there have been quite clear warnings against the EEA. Prior to leaving the EU, the UK said, among other things. Erna Solberg said that the United Kingdom, with its old imperialist thinking, should think about being a member of an organization that initially meant that many laws and regulations were passed elsewhere and then implemented directly. I don't think that's a topical matter for them, she said. This is very much in line with what central British politicians say. Prime Minister Theresa May has called the EEA undemocratically sustainable. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was at least as clear last week when he said: EEA will not give us any power to negotiate, we will be recipients of the rules we have not made ourselves. It's just the EEA in a nutshell. But Erna Solberg says to British media as a argument for the EEA that it could give us negotiating power on our side, and it could simplify Norwegian access to the United Kingdom. Well, it could be a few with EFTA membership. Is the Norwegian side of the House now in favour of getting the British into EFTA?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e673	First of all, I think it is sometimes necessary to read both British and other media with an alert eye so that a British medium in this context may have a desire to get positions from both Norwegian and other politicians who are not necessarily – what to say – undersold at least. What the Prime Minister has said here has been quite consistent and clear in relation to what we have said all along: there are questions we are willing to assess with the other EFTA countries if it would prove to be a topical issue on the part of the United Kingdom. However, in those discussions — to the extent that there have been discussions in the United Kingdom on EEA-related issues, such as the discussion in the House of Commons not long ago — EFTA has not been mentioned in one word. They cannot relate to the EEA Agreement without being a member of either the EU or EFTA; that must be a prerequisite. Therefore, our position is still that the British should change their position, the British should want an EEA solution, we should be involved in discussing it. But there is no sign that the British want an EEA connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e678	It opens for follow-up questions – Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e683	Before the British people voted on their membership of the EU – and by choosing their own future – the Norwegian government strongly warns the British against voting no. After an interview with the Norwegian Prime Minister, a headline from recognised POLITICO was ‘Don’t leave, you’ll hate it’. I believe POLITICO is to trust. The horrors of the Norwegian government coincide with the horrors of EU fans in the United Kingdom. There was no way of how bad it would be in the United Kingdom if it left the EU. But just as in Norway, things have gone quite so well in the United Kingdom after they voted no to the EU. The unemployment rate is the lowest in many decades, investment is record high, and exports from the United Kingdom have increased significantly. Does the Council of State mean that it was wise for the Norwegian Government to warn the British against taking the same choice as the Norwegian people, and that a large majority in the Norwegian people are especially satisfied with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e692	The British have not left the EU yet, they are leaving the EU on 29 March next year, and they will have a transitional arrangement until 31 December 2020 to act as if they are an EU member, but without being able to participate in the legislative impact. So I have to say that it is almost touching to hear the Central Party, which is hammering off the EEA Agreement in all other contexts, now be very concerned about the excellence of the EEA Agreement for other countries. I fully agree, the EEA Agreement is crucial for Norway, that is what gives us access to a home market of 500 million people, that is what enables us to ensure our well-being in the future as well. For us, and as the representative can read in our new strategy, cooperation with the EU is promised as something we do because we want to do it, not because we have to do it. It serves Norwegian interests, and I think it is positive that the Central Party also sees that the EEA Agreement has its value.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e699	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e704	What's fun to register in this context is that our own Prime Minister is standing on the pulpit in Stortinget and welcomes the EEA Agreement. This is also done by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, while the same Prime Minister – according to the Member of Parliament with whom I myself have met – strongly warns against Britain entering into the same agreement. At least the Central Party has the same hold either we are in the United Kingdom or Norway, but it does not have the government and the government's prime figure, the Prime Minister. I think it is absolutely worth noting that one here, when the government is at home, pays tribute to the EEA Agreement as the fantastic freedom for Norwegian industry and society, while one goes to the United Kingdom and says that they do not have to agree to the same agreement. Does the Foreign Minister think that one should see it as statesmanship, or should one perceive it as little near populism?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e709	I can assure you that the Prime Minister, me and my colleagues sitting here in the Chamber, honour the EEA Agreement both at home and outside because it is such an important instrument for Norway. What has been the challenge in the United Kingdom, and which remains the challenge, is that there is a great deal of internal disagreement about the direction in which the United Kingdom wants to continue to cooperate with the EU. It is a great deal of internal disagreement if you want a so-called hard or soft brexit. There is great disagreement about very difficult and important issues, such as border issues, customs union and other defining factors. What has been the position of the Norwegian side is that we want a tidy and orderly brexit. That would be good for British interests, that would be good for the EU, and that would be good for the protection of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e714	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e719	I read critical British media, but it is obvious that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has said to NTB – and it is possible that we should also read them with critical eyes: ‘If the British want to become a member of the EEA, they are cordially welcome.’ It's something other than what Aspaker and Bakke-Jensen have said. They have said that it is hardly in Norwegian interest to let the British into the EEA, and that this is something they have to clarify themselves, and we will assess it. It is clearly a different wording from that of the Prime Minister now than it has been of the government in the past. There are several reasons for this. We have conflicting interests in agriculture and fish, and we get a less dominant position in the EEA Agreement if the British go in. So my question is, does the Foreign Minister agree with Aspaker and Bakke-Jensen, or with Prime Minister Solberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e729	I agree with what is the government's position, namely that we are open to discuss that issue with the British, the British should change their view, turn around completely and want an EEA connection. What the Prime Minister has also said very clearly is that she does not consider it particularly likely that this discussion on the EEA will be continued, based on the clear views expressed by the UK – and has repeated it over and over again. One of the reasons why it is not relevant for the British is that the main reason behind Brexit is that they want to make their own legislation in key areas. The prerequisites for joining the EEA are that they have common legislation. There is an integrity in the internal market that makes us all have the four freedoms, not parts of the four freedoms. That's exactly why it's been very clear from the government, too, that we want to take care of Norwegian interests, we want as close and close a relationship with the United Kingdom as possible, and that's what we have dialogue with the United Kingdom about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e736	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e741	I do not think I received an answer, because it is quite different from saying that it is not in Norwegian interest for the British to enter the EEA. So I want to repeat my question: does the Foreign Minister agree with the two former European ministers, or with Prime Minister Solberg, who takes a different view than before, both in the British and Norwegian media?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e746	And I want to repeat my answer. I agree with the position of the government, namely that we are open to discuss an EFTA and EEA relationship for the United Kingdom if they wish, but they have not signaled that this is desirable. Rather, on the contrary, they have repeatedly rejected such a solution. The fact that we're here to meet both British and other people who want to discuss these questions should also be lacking, but it has not been a wish on the part of the British, and we have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e753	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e758	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Carbon capture and storage is our most important single climate action. Both in Europe and in the world, many look to Norway, and as the Council of State itself said in a previous reply, Norway has an important leadership role. What we do is important at home, but it also sends out important signals. Before the revised national budget, we said that the government was now going up to its climate exam. We recognize that the government met. We believe that the government might have seen the day yesterday as more of an exam than an exam. You went on with Norcem Brevik, which is good, we see that the waste facility on Klemetsrud is still there, which is also good, but the final investment decision is therefore at risk. As the exam considered, we've figured out that the government is going to get a tree, but we also believe that it's the potential, with a little bit of diligence and effort, to reach a four when you get to the final exam. My question to the Council of State Søviknes is: Can we now trust that there will be no further postponements? When does the Council of State feel that the government will be ready for a final exam in this important field? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that Norway retains a clear leadership role in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e769	Let me first stress that CCS is one of many important measures in the field of climate change work. It has been stated by many international teams, both the IEA and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, that CCS is an opportunity to keep the cost level of the transformation we are now in to bring down CO 2 emissions. So CCS will make a positive contribution, and if we're going to achieve the Paris goals without CCS, it'll be a more expensive solution than with CCS. When it comes to characterizing for me, it gets up to the final exam, I think – if one of them wants it to be related to the investment decision, we'll get it when we get there. It has now been said that there will be a possible investment decision in 2020/2021. We are committed to following the industrial cycle here to ensure that we have the quality of the final full-scale CCS project at all stages. It's both catch, it's transport, and it's not least storage in the North Sea that's inside this project. The timeline we have now set out in the revised national budget is the best indication we can give per day. This is a status report and at the same time an invitation to the Stortinget to discuss now how we proceed. So we recommend that we continue to plan for both catch, transport and storage and do it with weight. There are few projects I work on more than exactly CCS, both in Norway and not least in the global arena. There will be new initiatives on our part. We have had dialogue with the EU, we will have new discussions and events around this also during the Clean Energy Ministerial in Malmö and Copenhagen this week. We see that it is internationally seen in Norway because we see that we have had and have a leading international position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e785	I think I can interpret the answer from the Council of State so that he confirms that among course many climate action, this is absolutely central and that it is important that Norway has this role. It is therefore very important to hear now that the Council of State will focus on explaining that Norway has not lost its faith in any way. You believe this, but you have to have a real decision-making basis. Of course, we also support that. But I would like to hear exactly what the Council of State will do to counteract the impression that is now created, among other things. on some industry teams, because this is a delay that raises further doubts as to whether these projects are ever realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e792	Let me stress that when this is being discussed here as a delay, i.e. that the investment decision is being moved from 2019 to 2020/2021, that is a consequence of the recommendations we have received from both the industrial operators and from quality insurers, where they, among others, are. in their report in the autumn, stressing the need for sufficient time for the design phase we are now entering. They estimate that 15 months will be right. Then it has to be re-guaranteed, and the government has to have time to deal with this before providing an investment decision-making basis for the Storting. This is simply a natural consequence of us following an industrial race here and taking it in steps to ensure that we have the quality of the project, that we have good cost estimates, reduced risk and thus can invite the Stortinge to make a decision based on the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e797	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e811	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e816	The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, has been withdrawn. Question 6, from the representative of Arild Grande to the Minister for Justice, Preparedness and Immigration, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Jenny Klinge to the Minister for Justice, Preparedness and Immigration, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e828	‘Through the treatment of the State budget of the year, the so-called sugar levies were increased by approx. Two billion dollars. After this, many jobs and billions of turnover have been lost in the Norwegian food industry. In the light of the presentation of the revised national budget, does the Council of State still believe that this approach was correct, and is she willing to take self-criticism that the framework conditions for an important industry and thus thousands of jobs were placed at stake almost overnight and without thorough investigation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e841	The size decided to increase the excise duty on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages with effect from 1 January this year. As you know, the change was not promoted by the government in proposals for the state budget for 2018, but was a compromise after negotiations in Stortinget. Only a few months have passed since the levy was increased, and what effect the changes in charges will have on the border trade, it is a little too early to say anything about it. I would also like to remind you that developments in border trade are affected by more factors than excise duties. Much of the border trade includes goods which are subject to a low excise duty, including: meat products and other foodstuffs, but where there are high customs walls to protect Norwegian agriculture against competition from foreign food. In a 2010 survey, the Central Statistical Agency found that the purchase of food accounted for about half of the Nordics’ total trade on day trips abroad. For such products, strict import protection of agricultural products contributes to more expensive food in Norway and great eagerness after crossing the border of trade. In addition, the level of costs is consistently higher in Norway than in Sweden. It is also important to remember that border trade is not only unparalleled negative. Border trade expands the choice of the Nordics and is therefore an advantage for consumers. As the representative rightly points out, it is estimated that the increase in fees will increase the proceeds by around 2 billion. kr. These are revenue used for other priority purposes in the budget, including: lower taxes on income for persons and companies, investment in research and education, road and rail. But as I've said a number of times, it's the overall framework conditions that matter to growth and jobs here in the country. The government therefore prioritises growth-enhancing measures for the whole of business. So far, this government has reduced the total taxes and taxes by more than 24 billion. kr when all proposals are fully phased in. Nearly 8.8 billion. kr is the relief of the business tax. The centre party, on the other hand, wants to tighten taxes and only proposes an increase of 6 billion in taxes for 2018. kr. In the case of border products, the Centre Party proposes an increase in the taxes on alcohol and tobacco by 5 pst, respectively. and 10 pst. One might wonder if the representative does not believe such an increase would lead to increased border trade. The policy of the Centre Party is neither good for Norwegian business nor for Norwegian households.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e856	It is true that it is the Stortinget that adopts the state budget in all areas, but it is the government’s responsibility through the revised national budget to make the proposals that you think are right in the current situation. As the Council of State itself said in the Political Quarter in advance of the presentation: one has to consider maps to the terrain. And the terrain has, among other things, The country meeting in the Progress Party gave a very clear description of this. When the Council of State says that it is a little early to describe what has happened, the national meeting of the Progress Party has stated in a unanimous decision that the increase in fees has led to increased border trade and job losses, and that low-income families are particularly affected. So in meeting this, the government is completely passive. Does the Council of State think it is wise for this increase in fees to remain in place – when people lose their jobs, when investment is put on ice, and when the increase in fees is particularly severe for low-income families, as the Progress Party national meeting has expressed it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e863	It is absolutely right that the Progress Party is to keep the tax pressure low. Therefore, in our time in government, we have reduced the total tax burden by over 24 billion. kr. It is in stark contrast to what the Centre Party and its cooperation parties put up in their alternative budgets every year, which is about tightening the overall tax burden. I do not agree that the government is passive. If you look at developments in the Norwegian economy, you're doing very well. We've got the leave down to a very low level. Today it is announced that there are now unoccupied vacancies. Growth in the Norwegian economy is on the rise, and it is widely concentrated both at regional and industry level. You must not create the impression that things are going badly in the country. Rather the opposite – it's fine. And that's because the government focuses on a wide range of instruments, and we're concerned that the framework conditions should be good and competitive for business as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e870	The title of the Country Council Decision in the Progress Party is ‘Unfortunate consequences of fees’. While Siv Jensen has been Minister of Finance, the fees have increased by 6.6 billion. kr. The specific decision at the national meeting of the Progress Party concerned the increase in the levy on sugar and chocolate products adopted before Christmas. This has had strong consequences. For example, the rings have stopped production for several days in May, which is actually high season, but due to decreased volume one shuts down production for several days. There will be measurements showing that more and more trades are taking place in Sweden – and want to act in Sweden. The question then is: does the Council really believe that it makes sense to keep up this increase in fees, or does it now want changes to the revised national budget in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e875	While I have been a finance minister, the overall tax and tax level has fallen by over 24 billion. kr. The reason for this is that we are concerned that ordinary families should retain more of their own income and that businesses should be able to invest and for example. employing more people. And now we see the results of that. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. As I said in my first answer, there are many reasons why people choose to travel across the border to act. What they buy most is not soda and sugar; it's food – meat. If the centre party really thinks and really is so concerned about doing something about this: why are they on the barricades to maintain customs protection, import protection? It is in order to protect this type of product from competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e885	‘I see Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund, NLF, revealing systematic violations of the legislation on cabotage and running and sleeping time. Governments are responsible for the control of professional transport. Does the Council of State think control is good enough when this can happen, and will the Council of State listen to advice from the NLF on stricter requirements against transport purchases, higher fines and more roadside control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e892	I thank you for the question of a topic that concerns me very much, and which I think is important. We have had very good dialogue and discussion with Norway's Lastebileier Association and other stakeholders in the transport sector on this topic. When we took over in government in 2013, tightening up in these areas was one of the most important things we did. To increase roadside checks and to clarify vehicle technical requirements and so on. has been a priority effort for us. This is because we are concerned with both road safety, good working conditions and a level playing field for road transport. It's also embedded in the Jeløya platform for the period we're now in. We've spent a lot of time with the Norwegian industry and making sure that the public agencies work better together. The state road service is primarily responsible for roadside control, but making sure that police, labour supervision and others are better coordinated in this work is some of the steps we have taken. We have also worked well against our neighbouring countries, not only our Nordic neighbours, but also the European countries, mainly through the EU, to ensure that we have better rules both internationally and an understanding of the Norwegian specific needs that we have. The control of driving and rest periods is important in order to ensure road safety and such checks are carried out continuously. So we've increased the total number of checks along the way, but we've also become better at specifying or specifying the checks. One will find that, for example. is a little less control of cabotage in 2017 than in 2016, but one has nevertheless revealed more breaches in 2017 than in 2016 because one now uses digital tools more, where one can pick out and recognize the vehicles and let them have no problems with them before, the companies that have worked, pass, while one has taken in those that one has suspected before, where one has discovered problems before, or where one has no history. Thus, a more targeted approach can be taken to driving and rest time, cabotage and, in particular, to vehicle engineering. We are concerned with effective response possibilities, which are addressed in the question. Among other things, we have asked the Road Directorate and the police to review the legislation governing the imposition of fines, and to see whether there are several things for which you can charge a fee. Thus, one gets the same cost for those who have infringements, but there will be a much simpler process on the public side. We today experience that when a person finds faults and defects in some things, a police patrol must be called to impose a fine, instead of the Road Service being able to handle them on its own. That assignment has been given to the Road Directorate, and in cooperation with the police they will come back to us with recommendations. We have also made sure that there are separate forums for cooperation between the police, labour inspectorates, etc., which make it even better governance in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e905	I thank you for your answer. I have recorded that the Council of State has been in Brussels and has met with other countries in the Road Alliance no recently, and here it is important that one cooperates with our neighbouring countries in order to take a system that also enters the neighbouring countries. My question, after listening to the Council of State, concerns the negotiations that are now taking place within the Road Alliance and up against the EU. What possibilities do we now have for further strengthening the requirement and also being able to take these as systematic cheats within this? What are the requirements of the State Councils in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e912	Just what is being pointed out by the representative, Odnes, is that we should take those who are cellar rings, those who systematically abuse it. We also need to take those who run too fast and so on, but where the break is more of an accident or a single coincidence. The most important thing is to get caught by those who are systematically operating on basement lines. Let me remind you that we have created our own crimping unit in Vegvesen, where, among other things. work former police officers, just to be able to work organised against these groups. The cooperation we have with our neighbouring countries, both the good dialogue we have had with our Nordic neighbours, and what we have in the Road Alliance, is important in order to be able to coordinate and influence the regulatory design and systems of a stock for follow-up. Getting digital shipping notes and being able to have smart driving and rest time meters on board cars is one of the things we think we need to be able to do faster, while the EU presidency now really wants it to be slower. And there are, of course, slightly different interests from different countries, where we also have to be a pusher from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e919	The centre party has also been aware that we want to reduce the scope of illegal cabotage and reduce access to jobs. The Latvian transport company Kreiss has been brought forward as one of the actors who now has several supervisory cases on their part from the Labour Inspectorate and who are currently unable to provide evidence that cabotage operations are carried out after minimum Norwegian minimum wages and diets. On 18 July 2014, the Minister for Transport sent out an order for several measures to reduce the potential for fraud in the transport sector, including a couple of tools. is responsible for the whole transport chain and, in particular, transport buyers. How can it be that, after four years, we still have as extensive use of jokes as it now seems, and that we haven't been closed to a greater degree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e926	Now we don't know what the world would have been like if we hadn't taken any action. I mean – and have reason to believe – that then the situation would escalate further in the wrong direction. We got clear feedback from Vegvesenet that with the tightening up we did in the code, with the increased checks we had, we stopped fewer bad cars in the checks along Norwegian roads, just because those cars no longer drove to Norway. I believe that is a signal that the industry is adapting. When we've gotten tighter in the pinch, when we've gotten better at controls, it gets fewer like cheats, but it's still not like you've eliminated this in any way. That is why the tripartite sectoral programme established by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is an important part of that job. The fact that we have had collective agreements published since 2015 means that one is also jointly and severally responsible on the buyer's side. So there will be a need for us to be even more good at both revealing and having reactions, and that cooperation is to be done with our neighbouring countries, but not least with our own industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e936	‘The lack of nurses has increased by 47 per cent in the last year, according to NRK 6 May 2018. The Norwegian Nursing Association points out in the same article that the lack of full-time jobs is part of the problem. How does the Council of State use the mission documents of the regional health establishments to address the part-time crisis in the Norwegian health care system and provide enough nurses and other health professionals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e943	I have been demanding health care regions for several years that hospitals work with a full-time culture and that as much as possible be employed throughout permanent jobs. It provides better services and ensures continuity in the follow-up of patients. Work in hospitals and in health regions has produced results. The use of part-time for permanent staff in hospitals has decreased by more than 20 pst. in all health regions since 2010, and the reduction has continued every year since then. From January 2013 to March 2018, the reduction ranged from 3,5 pst. to 17.1 pst. between the four health regions. At the same time, the proportion of employees who have received a higher employment rate has also increased. The average employment rate for employees is now about 90 pst. in all health regions. Even though evolution is in the right direction, we're not in the right direction. Permanent full-time jobs are important to maintain and further develop skilled labour, recruit competent staff, develop a good working environment and reduce sick leave. At the business meeting in January, I referred to previous requirements, and I asked the regional health care companies to work systematically on strategic manning and competence planning. This shall be done by working specifically to train, recruit, maintain and develop employees. It is necessary to develop good dialogue and interaction with the education sector in order to ensure that education has the capacity, quality and content to meet the needs of the service and the population. I also pointed out previous requirements to ensure more places of learning in line with the objectives of the Societal Contract for more places of learning. I was clear that this is particularly important in the case of health professionals. All health-care establishments shall have apprenticeships in the field of health-care. It is also working to establish a full-time culture in the municipalities. About two thirds of the employees in the municipal care sector work part-time. Although the vast majority of part-time work in municipalities is voluntary, increased job breaks could provide health professionals with a better job situation and help to reduce the shortage of staff. The government has therefore promoted a legislative proposal which proposes to strengthen the provisions of the Working Environment Act that part-time employees should have a right of priority over new employment. The aim of the right of priority for part-time employees is to contribute to the reduction of involuntary part-time hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e962	I am pleased that the Council of State points to the future need for nurses in its response, for now there is a need for a real vigilance to ensure that there are enough nurses in the future. There are major deficiencies already today, and a dramatic increase only in the last year, as we read at Nok.no. According to the Coordinated Admission, the number of places of study at the nursing study was 4,758 in 2017. In 2018 it was 4,689. So the number of study places in the nursing study is going down in a situation where we see a dramatic shortage of nurses. The Labour Party has proposed 3,000 new study places in key areas such as health, ICT and real science in its alternative budget. What does the Minister of Health think about the government in which he himself sits, not taking this critical shortage of nurses seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e971	We take the lack of nurses seriously. The responsibility for the study places lies with the Minister of Knowledge, who is responsible for higher education and research, but with the Ministry of Health and Health and I make clear every year the need to increase the proportion. If I don't remember faults, the government has also increased the financial subsidy to increase the number of places. But this isn't just about places; it's also about those who actually get into nursing school are able to do it. We see that very many people who have been involved in nursing training in the past have not been able to complete the education in a normal time. That is why we have followed up a very long-standing demand from the Norwegian Association of Nurses to introduce character requirements in order to enter the education. Now we see that education is more popular than before. With the character requirements, it is also more likely that those entering the education actually complete it and therefore come out and are nurses at the other end.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e980	It is important for these newly-trained nurses to get a job, that they have an attractive employer to work with. The overview from the NRK shows that the Hospital Østfold has 35 pst. part-time employees, Health Fonna 35 pst., Helgelands Hospital 34 pst., Nordlands Hospital 33 pst., Hospital Telemark 32 pst., Health Møre and Romsdal 32 pst., Hospital in Vestfold 31 pst., Hospital Inland 31 pst., Sørlandet Hospital 31 pst. and Health Nord-Trundellag 30 pst. So this was the list of those who have most part-time employees. Does the Minister of Health think this is a good employer policy and conditions to offer newly educated nurses, and is he concerned about what this does for the quality of patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e989	The answer is yes. That is also why I am so clear in my demands. Fortunately, the requirements have produced results. As I said, the use of part time for permanent staff in hospitals has fallen every year I have been a health minister, and we are now in a situation where the average employment rate for permanent staff is 90 pst. in all health regions. But I'm not satisfied, as I also said in my first answer. The target hasn't been reached, we have to go down further. We're going to have a big need for more nurses who work in 100 pst. position in both municipalities and hospitals. We cannot afford to waste the important competence in the way we do both in hospitals and in the municipalities today. At the same time, patient safety and quality are very poor. We know that having continuity in treatment and having the most permanent staff is of great importance for quality. I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1005	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1013	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: «The extension of the current Law on Municipal Water and Wastewater Facilities to the Water Services Sector Act may be an appropriate step to follow up the proposals of the Water Commission under the Ministry of Climate and Environment. [[‘water service law’]] Such legislative work will contribute to a more comprehensive and efficient governance of the State in the water and sewerage sector. Will the Council of State take initiatives to speed up work on a water service law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1022	Climate change will lead to more and more extreme rainfall and the need to prevent flood damage in cities and agglomerations. Many municipalities work well to prevent damage. In its study, the Overwater Committee has proposed a number of legislative and regulatory changes that will together provide municipalities with better instruments to prevent damage from flooding. These proposals for legislative changes in several different laws need to be seen in the context and are in full swing. The legislative changes concern several departments, and the work is managed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Overwater is not unique. Water is diverging from a variety of sources and has different causes. The sample proposals concern, inter alia: better financing of flood measures, better management of floods in level and construction matters, drainage of floods in watercourses, safety requirements against damage, imposition of existing construction, diversion of floods in roads and streets, etc. The proposals concern many social actors and need to be further investigated in line with the investigation guide before the proposal can be submitted to consultation and legislative proposals are promoted by the Stortinget. This also concerns the issue of a sectoral law on water and sewerage services, which the representative Myhrvold addresses. The committee has proposed to regulate the relationship between the municipality as a site owner and service provider and their subscribers in the Water and Sewage Facilities Act. At the same time, the Committee has proposed that cross-sectoral provisions of legislation relating to water and sewerage services should be retained in cross-sectoral legislation, such as: the design and building law and the pollution law. In order to provide better opportunities for municipalities to work effectively in the management of floods, the sample also has several proposals to strengthen the state guidance and competence of various State actors. This will also be important to assess in the follow-up to the sample investigation. I can assure you that we have full power in the work on the current legislative changes. We follow up the investigation of the overwater committee as soon as possible, which has also been fixed in the Jeløia platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1033	Thanks for the answer. There is no doubt that the regulatory challenges in the water and sewerage sectors are fragmented and have been fragmented on the state side for many years. I'm glad to hear that there's a work going on. I also interpret the Council of State so that the Ministry of Climate and Environment has a coordinating role in this work with the other departments. When will we be able to get a proposal on the table? What is the time perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1040	I think the most important thing for me to say -- I can't be quite specific about when it comes -- is that the important thing is to follow up the underwater selection. That's also where impatience is. It's a complicated work. It is in progress in several departments and will be driven forward. It is also in the context of looking at and assessing whether there is a need for a separate sectoral law. This is a question that was up in Stortinget last spring. A decision was taken on 6 June, which just pointed out the importance of doing concrete work in order to follow up the flood selection. It was said that it is in this context that it is assessed whether there is a need for a sectoral water and sewerage law, which is referred to in the proposal as a water service law. [[President clubs]] The answer is that this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1045	As the Council of State says, this affects many social actors and areas. On 9 May, VG had a circulation of ancient water pipes as a potential cost bomb for the municipalities, and not least for the subscribers. Norway has a very high leakage loss from water pipes between 30 pst. and 50 pst. It is an environmental challenge, as it requires energy and chemicals to produce water, and it is a potential health challenge if pollution comes through the leakage points. A water service law could provide municipalities with an important home they do not have today, an opportunity to oblige owners to stop leakages on their own pipelines, as part of the municipality's work to reduce water loss and reduce costs. Does the Council of State consider that a water service law may be appropriate to control this type of water leakage and leakage on the municipal sewerage network?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1050	What is needed is to review the proposals of the flood committee and to look at the different sections of it. So it's right that in order to get to grips with what's lagging behind in the water supply system, it's important that the municipalities don't have to wait to start an increased effort to do something about the lag that's there. Then there has to be part of the investigation whether there is a need to make changes to what you can demand, which is what the staging representative asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1064	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1076	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-16.ana.ud493e1090	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
