ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e42	Three permit applications are available: by Mr Fredric Holen Bjørdal, on parental leave from 26 November to 28 November; from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen from 26 November to 28 November to take part in the Women Political Leaders Global Forum in Reykjavik from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen from 27 November to 29 November to participate in meetings on Arctic cooperation in Brussels These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Telemark County, Olav Urbø, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Square 27-28. November For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 27-29. November For Telemark County: Heidi Herum 27-28. November
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e101	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e106	On behalf of the representatives Bengt Fasteraune, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I will present a proposal for stronger cooperation between childhood and youth psychiatry and the school health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e111	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e116	On behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Sheida Sangtarash, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on measures for families with great care needs. On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on the Child Protection Lift II.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e123	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e141	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e150	This case concerns representatives from the representatives of Lysbakken and Moxnes on a diverse nursery sector. The proposal provides for a stepping-up plan to ensure a greater proportion of public and non-profit kindergartens in Norway, the introduction of reporting obligations and municipal pre-purchase rights in the sale of kindergartens, and the requirement for new owners to apply for a new grant in the event of sale. The Committee held an open hearing on the matter on 11 October and five minority proposals were put forward in addition to a majority vote. I assume that the rapporteurs will present their proposals and the majority vote. Although it has not become a unanimous committee behind the vote, the Committee supports the proposalers in the expressed wish to have a diverse childcare sector where the money goes to the best of the children. It is an objective of the Committee that all children are offered good and safe kindergartens. Equally, parents are satisfied with the kindergarten offer in Norway, both in public and private kindergartens. There is good quality in Norwegian kindergartens, but further efforts must be made on the best possible quality for the young through, among other things. good staffing, more kindergarten teachers, enough skilled workers and good offers of skills enhancement. The proposers write in their headlines that they want a ‘diverse kindergarten sector’, but I have a strong idea that this proposal is only a small piece in a larger puzzle game from the representatives, and that the ultimate goal is to stop the private ones. The promotion party believes that private kindergartens are an important part of the kindergarten offer. The establishment of kindergartens in private ownership and operation has played a crucial role in achieving the cross-policy objective of full child care coverage, and of the country’s 300,000 kindergarten children go about. half in private kindergartens. Children are different, so it's good that we have a lot of different childcare facilities. For us, it's not the form of ownership that determines whether the kids are doing well in kindergarten or not – it's the content and quality that do. In the 2003 kindergarten agreement, there was a broad political majority in favour of full childcare coverage, and this expansion would not have been possible without cooperation between the public and private sectors. The kindergarten agreement gave almost full childcare coverage and diversity in the sector that has given parents greater freedom of choice. But in the wake of the large expansion in the 2000s, we have seen that there have been some unintended consequences. The store invited to work and made it beneficial to establish kindergartens. The government granted investment grants, the municipalities were encouraged to provide cheap plots, and the children's gardeners were given favourable conditions in the House Bank. At the time, this looked like a good strategy to ensure rapid development. However, the results and a number of other factors, such as local political uncertainty, increased bureaucracy and reporting requirements, have led to the sale of small private kindergartens with very good profits, which can then be attributed back to good public support schemes. This development was not the intention of any of those involved in the kindergarten arrangement, but the result is due to many individual factors influenced by politicians in the past, which makes it wrong for me to look at the final result and say that the answer in the future must be that we have to make a plan from the Stortings on how to get more public kindergartens. The time for large investment grants, cheap land and favourable loans is over, so the huge profits from sales are probably over, but we still want to know more about the cash flows in kindergartens. Poor use of public funds is equally poor, whether private or public. We believe that we need to have a regulation on grants and controls that ensures good and safe kindergartens where children are allowed to develop and develop. Today, private kindergartens must meet the same requirements as the public, and that is the way it should be. There is now an overall review of the legislation and profitability of the nursery sector. The review includes, inter alia: economic legislation, supervision and assessment of different requirements to ensure diversity in the sector and the benefit of government grants to children. The majority in this room therefore advises the Storting to wait for further decisions until the overall review has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e173	Kindergartens are one of the most important common arenas for children to play, learn, develop and explore. Thanks to the interaction between private and public actors, we currently have full child care coverage. However, there is no doubt that the kindergarten sector is something different today than it was 15 years ago, so we agree with the proposers that when the sector is changing, the legislation also needs to be updated. This is why the government has undertaken a comprehensive review of the financing system for the private sector. The right considers that new individual provisions and changes should be seen in the context of that review. I think that is where our agreement with the proposers ends, because it is clear, as many have also mentioned in the consultation round, that this proposal for a representative is characterised by the suspicion of all private kindergartens, and is intended to introduce public monopolies in the sector. Despite the fact that private kindergartens now have the same requirements for staffing, pedagogical density and framework plan, despite parents and children's well-being, that the pedagogical density is higher in the private sector, and that many individuals have taken the lead in developing good quality, claims from the left are being promoted that private kindergartens hide private assets and then break the law. It is a picture in which neither kindergartens nor parents and families who are satisfied with the offer are familiar. The diversity of a kindergarten sector must, by definition, mean that there is room for different actors – not just the municipality – to have an idea, put it into action and then develop it further. I also think it is best for the children that all the good forces have contributed to the variation in the pedagogical structure and in the activities. Families and children are different and may want different offers. I do not think there is anything wrong with making any money on the fact that we have invested and started something of our own, but I am concerned that we are making clear demands on quality and have a good code for subsidies and control. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has taken the initiative of a knowledge-based, not ideological, review of the legislation on the establishment and financing of private kindergartens. It is also why the Right does not feel the need to support the proposal that currently appears to have a majority on such a review of the funding system. We also understand that the proposal does not require a re-examination of the municipal income system and hopes to be supported. The right is concerned that the financial supervision of kindergartens is improving, and that the smaller, individual ideals and private kindergartens also have good framework conditions. Therefore, it is important that we have a critical look at the funding system, but also at the scope of action that politicians give to kindergartens, so that they can choose to invest in a little different and new measures. The left-hand side often talks about the fact that they only want the profit of life, not diversity. But that's not how it gets in practice. A few months ago I visited the splitter new Nordtvet farm kindergarten in Oslo. Kindergarten is the result of a public tender that was announced when the Right was placed in the City Council. Now it's a fantastic kindergarten, with creative architecture and a good pedagogical structure, and it's already a waiting list. Unfortunately, among other things, the city council, with Red, SV and the Workers' Party, put a stopper and said a blank no to more such private kindergartens. It seems strange, because at the opening – and I still notice this in these debates – SV's city council boasted No Marte Thorkildsen of this kindergarten and said that such projects can teach the municipality. But it sometimes seems from the left that: after this kindergarten the municipality has learned enough, and there are no new actors who in the years to come can inspire anything more. It testifies to a very backward view of quality and innovation. I think it contributes to fewer children getting the quality of kindergarten everyday life they deserve in the years to come. In the previous session SV made a proposal to ban dividends in the nursery sector, and today we are dealing with this proposal. Government parties, on the other hand, have been in the forefront to discuss the introduction of recruitment standards, increased pedagogical density and a better transition from kindergarten to school. I also hope in this session that the opposition in the future may be a little more involved in discussing measures to increase the quality of the kindergarten sector, and how we can develop the educational offer. After all, it is the quality and not the ownership of the parents and not least the children are concerned about. We are in the process of reviewing the control and funding of private kindergartens. I think that is wise, because we need to ensure legitimacy in this important sector, and we need to maintain diversity in the future. But we must not fall into the trap of believing that everything must be operated by the municipality in order for it to be for the benefit of the children. History tells us the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e192	I think we agree that it is a good kindergarten offer that is our goal – a diverse sector that should reflect a diverse country. And don't worry: the center party would like to discuss quality in kindergartens. Evenly, parents are satisfied with both private and public kindergartens. It's even above good quality in kindergartens. Manning and people are what at the seventh and last are most important. Care and proximity require that the nursery workers have time and capacity to be where needed, when needed. With a desire for greater quality in content, we need more stringent use of resources. When groups establish and speculate in the nursery market that has arisen, the warning lights light up to most of us. However, this should not be the starting point for full municipal operation of the nursery facility. We also need private actors. The kindergarten agreement was established with broad political cooperation and was the basis for an interaction between public and private, for the benefit of the inhabitants of our country. Both the NHO and the KS agreed in our hearing that it provides the most for the money. We must not ask questions from private providers. Privates challenge the public in getting wider offers – educational follow-up, activities, outdoors, farmyards and much, much more, thanks to private initiatives. Where the offer has not been good enough, or where the local municipal kindergarten is likely to be closed, parents have often joined forces to maintain or establish operations at the nursery. When people put money and time into ensuring a good deal where the public doesn't go, we have to respect that they should be able to get back what they have invested. The reason why many of the small private individuals are unable to maintain their operations is just unforeseeable, lack of public funding and demanding unannounced changes. This is also a public responsibility. The centre party believes that there is a need to strengthen the municipality as a nursery authority and the ability to manage the dimensioning of the nursery places in the municipalities. Therefore, we believe that the introduction of reporting obligations for sellers of private kindergartens as well as pre-purchasing rights for municipalities will ensure better management of the offer, in line with local needs and priorities. Already municipalities have contractually attached such pre-purchase rights in connection with the sale of plots to private nursery owners. We also share the concerns of the proposers about the development of the sector and the objective of maintaining a wide range of childcare facilities and ensuring that public funding goes to the children and to the operation and is not subject to economic speculation. We believe it is important that kindergartens are really part of the community, where parents and elected representatives should know the leadership, governance and operation of kindergartens. We therefore do not want a development where an increasing proportion of kindergartens are owned by commercial groups. Small private, ideal and public kindergartens ensure the diversity we want. The closeness of the board and administration also provide better opportunities for supervision and for ensuring that the grants go to what they are supposed to do. The centre party is concerned that the introduction of a new recruitment and pedagogical norm will lead to more purchases if the reforms are not fully financed. This reinforces the trend with higher ownership concentrations and also reinforces the uncertainty that causes more of the small ones to have to sell. In addition, we want to refer to the setting we had in ours, Innst. 114 S for 2017-2018, where the comments and proposals of the Centre pointed to the same concerns and the same direction of childcare management. We expect the ongoing and comprehensive review of the legislation and profitability of kindergartens to address these concerns and the input that is coming, including in connection with this proposal. Both reporting obligations, pre-purchasing rights and follow-up must be better informed in the investigation that the government will provide. And with that, I would like to address the proposals made by the Central Party as co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e215	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e220	The ambition of the working party is the best possible nursery for all children, regardless of which nursery they go to, or which municipality they live in. For us, it is also a clear goal that the money community spends on kindergartens, should go to the children, not as big gains to commercial companies. The Labour Party is in favour of diversity in the kindergarten sector, of both public and private actors, and there is nothing in the Labour Party's proposal, or in our support for other proposals, which prevent, for example, from happening. the nursery type representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde mentioned. The aim of the Workers' Party is to ensure that the funds are spent on the children. Then we have to send out clear signals and protect about the ideal, small kindergartens that do not make large profits. Common welfare services shall not be a place to invest to derive profit. In February, the Workers' Party, together with the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Centre Party, received a majority in order for the government to establish a legal distinction between ideal and commercial actors in the kindergarten sector and whether alternative forms of organisation would be appropriate. It is essential, in the view of the Labour Party, to follow this up in order to be able to take real action to limit profits in kindergartens and to strengthen public and non-profit actors. It is also a prerequisite if, like SV and Red, one wishes to adopt a plan for stepping up municipal and non-profit ownership and the operation of kindergartens. The government has been given the task of establishing such a legal distinction, and we expect, as we write in our remarks, that it is not associated with this. We believe that the government should make a legislative amendment proposal during 2019. We support the proposal on reporting obligations and pre-emption rights. It is not certain that this is unproblematic to introduce. Therefore, it has to be carefully considered. The Labour Party has its own, adjusted, proposal that takes care of that. The Workers' Party also supports the proposal to re-apply for grants. It is important to have popular governance of the development of the kindergarten sector, and to prevent commercialisation as a result of the purchase and sale of kindergartens. The Labour Party is involved in two other proposals in this matter. The first — proposal for a decision — concerns the review of the funding system. About half of all children go to a private kindergarten. We see that the number of commercial kindergarten chains is increasing, while many ideal and small kindergarten owners are put under pressure, or bought up. It has built up a large surplus in the largest chains in the kindergarten sector, showing figures in a BDO report. We have proposed a broad review of the funding system, including: in order to ensure good quality for all children, to maintain pay and work conditions, to cover real expenditure including pensions, to prevent large profits and to ensure better protection of small and ideal kindergartens. In addition, many private kindergartens experience what they describe as discrimination. Development underlines the need for clearer legislation, and we expect the government to start this work quickly and come back with clear proposals for improvement. The second proposal we are promoting – together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left – is that municipalities should have the opportunity to make equal demands for municipal and private kindergartens. I would like to remind you that when the Stoltenberg government proposed that the grant to municipal and private kindergartens should be equated, so that the financing of private kindergartens should be up to 100 pst. there was a clear pre-requisite for the simultaneous introduction of the same requirements for municipal and private kindergartens. The latter has not happened under this government. That is why we are once again proposing to implement this. We want parents to be sure that the money they pay is going to make kindergarten even better for the children. Therefore, we will prevent commercial operators from reaping large profits from the kindergarten sector. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e245	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e250	The Barnhage reform is the largest and most important welfare reform implemented in Norway in recent times. It has meant a great deal for Norwegian children, for Norwegian families and for the families economy and has made it easier to combine children and work. It's a reform we in SV are incredibly proud of. Just because we are so happy about the kindergarten reform, we are busy preventing kindergartens from becoming a speculator, that kindergartens become shops, that the money the parents and community pay for the kindergartens goes to something other than what they're meant for, namely the children. Taxes and payments by parents to kindergartens should not go to build large private assets or, in the worst cases, to tax havens, as we know that some of the money in the large welfare companies does. Heavy commercial companies are on their way into Norwegian welfare. Well-being is a safe investment for those who have a lot of capital. So in the kindergarten sector, we see that according to a report, the return on invested capital in kindergartens is three times that of Oslo Børs. A report that the government itself presented in the spring shows that the commercial, large chains have the greatest profits and the lowest staff in the kindergarten sector. For us, it's all about stopping welfare profits on several things: the development of the welfare model of the future, the commercial not getting more to say about what kind of offers are being created, the defence of a public sector that is going to be a bastion for a clean and good working life, and the defence of the non-profit sector, which has been very important in building up Norwegian welfare. That's why this isn't a debate about the relationship between public and private, which the right-hand side very much wants to make. SV is for private kindergartens, but the big change we see is therefore in the ownership of private kindergartens, where what was really an ideal sector dominated by small private actors, is increasingly characterized by a few large commercial chains that collect a lot of kindergartens on few hands. Care is care, it's not a store. The welfare state is supposed to serve people, not money. Every crown granted to kindergartens shall go to the children. That's our simple requirement. So it's quite right, as is said here, that SV's starting point is that we want a ban on profit on fundamental welfare. But that is not the proposal that has been submitted for consideration today, from SV and Red, is about. That proposal, on the other hand, takes seriously what all the parties in this Chamber have said, namely that if you are to believe the right side of what they say, no one wants a move towards increasing money being taken out of the big commercial chains. That's why this is an attempt to set limits on that development and a test of whether the bourgeois parties are serious about what they say about it. It's about non-discrimination and setting the same requirements. It is about greater opportunities for municipalities to prevent more kindergartens from getting into fewer hands. It's about stepping up ideal ownership. But all of this adds up to the right-hand side. It is difficult to interpret it in any other way than that the right-hand side believes it is entirely okay that kindergartens are shops, and then it might be more tidy to discuss from that point of view. It is distributed in the room two solutions from SV that relate to the same issue. So the commercial chains have both lower crews than municipal kindergartens and employees with a smaller average of skills and seniority, but they still receive the same amount of support as the municipal kindergartens. In 2015, the government amended the regulation to ensure that private individuals receive a template supplement of compensation for pension expenditure in municipal kindergartens. A new report from the College of the Interior shows how skeptical this turns out, because real pension expenditure is much lower. This rule is, in practice, a form of cash support to welfare professionals that makes it possible to take out far more profit and also makes it more profitable to choose that type of operation. Therefore, we are promoting two proposals which are based simply on the fact that what is allowed to cover pension expenditure in kindergartens should reflect the real pension costs in kindergartens. With that, I take up the suggestions SV is only about in the setting, and those that are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e269	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e274	As many people have said, there is a broad consensus that there is a desire for a diverse kindergarten sector and that we want to ensure that the money goes to the best of our children. But then we disagree about how we get to that point, both how we ensure diversity, and how we ensure that the money we spend on kindergarten today goes to the best of our children. The proposers believe that what is crucial is who owns the kindergartens, implicitly – I suppose that means – that public and ideal owners are better than private owners. If, in fact, quality was linked to ownership, the Left could actually be inclined to support some of the proposals available here, for example: on the escalation of public ownership, because we generally have a rather pragmatic relationship with who provides a service. We are most concerned about whether the service is good or not. But within kindergarten, there's not such a connection. There are no studies that I have seen, which say that public and non-profit owners are better than private ones. On the contrary, if you were to make an assessment, there are actually several things that indicate that private owners are more able to provide better services than public ones. Parental studies show that parents are most satisfied with private kindergartens. I also have to say that, through my visits to kindergartens and through dialogue with the sector, I am convinced that there are many of the private actors who provide as good services as they do to the public. There are very good public kindergartens, there are very good private kindergartens. But many of these interconnected chains are actually among those that have the best quality assurance systems, which have the best systems of skills development in their employees, and which follow up their kindergartens best. Last week I was visiting a kindergarten that has gone from being a municipality to being private, in one of these big chains, and both the manager and several of the employees expressed very clearly that they felt that it had become a quality promise after changing ownership. I do not doubt the intentions of the proposers in this matter. The left, like the other government parties, is very open to look at measures that just ensure that the money goes to the best of children. But with many of these proposals, we can actually risk reducing the quality of certain kindergartens by getting more public ownership. I want a babysitting debate that is more about content and quality and less about ownership, and I would like to challenge the parties on the left to put away the ideological skystacks and put away the basic scepticism of everything that is private, and rather focus on what is most important, namely the children. The most important thing is that all kindergarten children have a good day of kindergarten, characterized by play and learning, by safe adults with enough time, who see, acknowledge and support the children in their development. I hope that we can have a debate on, for example, in the future.: Do we set the right criteria for quality in kindergartens? We've got a standard of manpower and a standard of pedagogy that is very important to set a common standard across ownership. Are they working as intended? Is that good enough what we've decided? I think we have to look at that. And is that supervision we have today, the right way to follow that we have the quality that our kids deserve? We have to make sure that the money we spend on kindergarten goes to the best of our children. Today's Document 8 proposal is not a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e294	Kindergarten quality is important in order to provide the best possible growth for individual children, where the child can be seen and can experience having enough adults around him to be stimulated and taken care of in a good way. It is therefore important to have a diverse kindergarten sector, which can contribute in various ways to high quality through good staffing and ensure that the money allocated can be used to the satisfaction and benefit of the individual child. Government grants and parental payments shall benefit children and ensure that kindergartens have an annual result which may provide opportunities to build skills and secure premises and outdoor areas so that a child can have a good standard at all times. Although we constantly want to improve the quality of kindergartens, it is still good to note that many parents are satisfied with the nursery provision in Norway today. This applies in both public and private kindergartens. However, this should not be a sleep cushion, but it must be put on better quality, because through good staffing, more kindergarten teachers, enough skilled workers and good offers and empowerment, we are making kindergarten even better than it is today. As an important part of the overall and diverse childcare provision, private individuals play an important role. These are precisely contributing to a diverse kindergarten sector in the future. The establishment and operation of private kindergartens has played and continues to play a major role in achieving the cross-policy objective of full childcare provision. Private kindergartens provide children with a high quality offer and provide employees with good and tidy pay and working conditions in general. There is now a review of the legislation and profitability of the nursery sector supported by the Christian People's Party. This is an important review, which can help to create a picture of the situation and ensure that public funds do not contribute to high yields. We need a regulatory framework that can provide transparent and transparent conditions, taking into account how public funds are used to create high quality for individual children in kindergarten. Nearly 300,000 children are in kindergarten. A diverse nursery sector should therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, imply that there are different types of ownership. However, it is also important to facilitate parents’ choice of their children’s nursery. Studies have shown with great clarity that it is not the form of ownership that determines whether the child is well-being in the nursery or not – I almost kept to say the opposite – it is the content and quality that determine. A diverse nursery sector must therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, continue to facilitate the creation of ideal, municipal and/or other private kindergartens that make up diversity. The children are different, and that's why it's good that we have a lot of different childcare facilities. This also applies to kindergartens with extended purpose paragraph. The proposal that has been promoted, which we are debating today, can be seen as a struggle for public and ideal kindergartens, while the rest of the private offer is gradually to be phased out. I would definitely agree, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that it is of great value that we provide framework conditions that allow ideal kindergartens to form an important part of the total offer. A recent development in which several ideals, especially among the small ones, experience a demanding economic situation and almost experience being pressured out, is unfortunate – and a development that the Christian People's Party wants to stand up to. However, it is not possible to put a line over the 2003 orphanage agreement, which provided full childcare coverage. This expansion would not have been possible without cooperation between the public and private sectors. In the future, therefore, there will also be a need for private kindergartens, on the same scale as today, and it must therefore also be provided for. In the future, we need to have a regulation on grants and controls that ensures good and safe kindergartens where children are allowed to develop and develop, and that must be the same requirements for the private as for the public kindergartens. That is why we need supervision, which we hope will come into place gradually, and we need a review of the grant system for private kindergartens in particular, which can ensure a predictable and accurate system of equal treatment and quality. Today, when we, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, are involved in the committee's proposal for a decision, our intention is not a full review of the income system in terms of how it works in relation to the municipal kindergartens, but to look at how we can achieve a fairest possible system of care for the small and ideal kindergartens in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e313	The numbers of children in the kindergarten sector are weakened by increased commercialisation. The hard chains are increasing at record speed, while the number of ideal kindergartens is halved. We've got 1,227 fewer ideal kindergartens in ten years and over 1,000 more commercial kindergartens in the same period. This should worry all the parties in the Storting, who at least say they care about the diversity of kindergartens, and not least the Christian People's Party, which has a beating heart for the ideals. This is reality – 1,227 fewer ideal kindergartens, halved in ten years, and a dramatic increase in commercial kindergartens. But the parties here are talking like it hasn't happened, like we were in 2005, like it wasn't like the ideal kindergartens and diversity are being swept out of the difficult, commercial profit-bearing garden chains. We even belong to representatives of the Progress Party and the Right who stand on the floor here and say that Red and SV do not really want private kindergartens, that the aim of the proposal is a public monopoly in the kindergarten sector. I must say, then, that at some point these bourgeois parties must soon wake up. So there are ideal kindergartens in our country – unfortunately many fewer than before – but the Right and Advance Party: the ideal kindergartens are not municipal, so the ideal kindergartens are private. Our proposal is to ensure that we can have ideal – and municipal – kindergartens in the future, and that profit-bearing gardens are less of which we should have. It should be the last time that adult training is needed for the Progress Party and the Right that the ideals are not municipal kindergartens but are private, and that these private kindergartens are those who take the cost of the majority of the population providing a law that makes it free for commercials to milk profit from kindergartens, subject themselves to ideals and, not least, expand violently in the sector, on which the ideal private loses massively. We see from the government's own reports that the profitability of the nursery sector is three times higher than that of Oslo Børs. When Red has a goal that all money should go to the best of children, the same principle is the same as all parties – except perhaps the Progress Party – support in the school sector. I've heard Right-wing people say they're in favour of a curfew at school because all the money is going to go to the best of the students. The ones in the right are not against private schools for that reason. They're for private schools, as far as I know, but they're against taking money out of schools. When we are in favour of the same principle in kindergartens, it is almost the worst communism or something like that, according to the Right – that is, the same principle that they support when it comes to school. There is something remarkable about the logic of the citizens in this matter. It is also remarkable that the Christian People's Party, which here has the chance to support a proposal that ensures the space for action of the ideal kindergartens, unfortunately ends the ranks with the bourgeois for the continued support of profit in the kindergarten sector. It's also a shame that we don't get a majority to ensure the room for action of local democracy. Today, the commercial kindergartens have a right to drive. When municipalities like Stjørdal and Tromsø are given over-capacity in kindergartens because of lower birth rates, they have one option, and it is to lay down and cut in the municipality's own kindergartens. They can't touch the commercials. So even though local democracy, after a choice, wants fewer child-bearing gardens and more non-commercial kindergartens, they have no choice with the law of the day. It's a one-way street with civil policy, no matter what people in the municipality may think and wish. This should be corrected by the Stortinget and give the municipalities a democratic space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e324	Every day thousands of children are crabs and carried into Norwegian kindergartens, where they spend much of their daily lives. The government is concerned that they should have good days in kindergarten and that they should experience safety, mastering and development and develop and develop and develop and explore. Good kindergartens are particularly important for integration and early efforts for the most vulnerable children. If we're going to achieve this, we have to have good quality in kindergartens. We believe that diversity is important in the development of good quality in kindergartens. Private kindergartens ensure freedom of choice for parents, contribute to the diversity of the offer and have been crucial for full childcare. The rules for private kindergartens were laid down at a time when there was a need for large-scale expansion of the capacity of the sector, and parts of the legislation came from the 2003 kindergarten agreement. The rules were intended to make it both easy and attractive to start and operate a private kindergarten, to ensure good access to land and to provide owners with long-term financing of both property and operations. The legislation worked as intended. It became a huge expansion of kindergartens. This led to full child care coverage and a better everyday life for the young children’s parents. Half of the children who go to kindergarten go to a private nursery today. At the same time, parental studies show that parents are even more satisfied with private kindergartens. At the same time, we have a responsibility to further develop legislation in line with developments in the sector. The kindergarten sector is now almost complete. We see a development where some chains get increased market share and high returns. We have also seen cases of the sale of kindergartens, where it may seem that the sales gains are very high. We also see that the municipalities have little financial control over the private kindergartens. I do not want a development where the small isolated kindergartens disappear, where we only have large groups, and where the diversity of the sector disappears. I agree that government grants and parental payments should benefit children. At the same time, private kindergartens must have framework conditions that enable kindergartens to have a healthy economy and provide a good supply of time. I am concerned that we have a legislation on grants and controls that ensures good and safe kindergartens, which gives parents freedom of choice, and provides a basis for the operation of both small and large kindergartens with different types of ownership structure. In this way, we facilitate the diversity of owners, the development of quality and stable provision for families with children. To achieve this, we need a good knowledge base on the development of the sector. Earlier this year we ordered two reports from BDO and Telemarksforsking. The reports show that parts of the legislation created to ensure a large-scale expansion of the sector can currently contribute to large profits and gains from sales. We have therefore embarked on greater efforts to look at the legislation on the establishment and financing of private kindergartens, the use of government grants and parental payments and the supervisory system. This will happen in close dialogue with the sector. I am concerned that we should see any changes in context and create a code that works well as a whole. In this work, we also follow up five different request decisions from the Stortingen concerning the development of the legislation for private kindergartens. One of the request decisions deals precisely with how municipalities can be able to distinguish between ideal and commercial actors. The review of the legislation will be completed during 2019 and proposals will be made at public consultation. Given the extensive investigation work being carried out, I believe it would be very unwise to introduce new individual provisions in the Kindergarten Act at this time. Finally, I would like to remind you that the government has already adopted more restrictions in the legislation. We have just introduced a completely new national standard of personnel and strengthened the standard of education. These changes will deliver higher quality in both municipal and private kindergartens. It will also ensure that public funds are more beneficial to children, through more employees in low-staffed kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e347	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e352	What we've seen in recent years is a development where there's become a lower proportion of non-profit kindergartens in the Norwegian kindergarten sector and a higher proportion of commercial kindergartens. According to BDO, the largest commercial chains have accumulated a large profit, with higher returns on invested capital in kindergartens than on the stock exchange and in most other areas. It is also clear that there are different conditions for operating ideal and municipal kindergartens. In February, the Workers' Party, together with the Center Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, was given a majority in order for the Council of State to investigate a legal distinction between ideal and commercial kindergartens. It's -- as we see it -- a prerequisite for taking real action to strengthen the ideals. We have asked the Council of State when we can expect him to come back with a case about this, because we do not have time to secure the ideal and small kindergartens. So my question is, when can we expect the Council of State to deliver on that decision? Can we get it in 2019, which we think we should?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e361	It is interesting to note the impatience that suddenly characterizes the Workers' Party, after eight years of government and did nothing about it. It is the civil government that has now taken over the legislation, because we see that we need to have legislation that is adapted to the current situation in the sector. I am concerned that it should be knowledge-based, and I am concerned about predictability – predictability for those who operate and own kindergartens, and not least predictability for their parents. That is why I do not recommend that we now, while we are doing these extensive investigations, adopt new sanctions. I have already stated that we aim to get the proposal consulted in the spring of 2019. That means we're aiming to get a proposal for the Stortinget during 2019. But it depends on getting a whole in this that allows us to preserve diversity, while at the same time ensuring good and predictable conditions for those who are drifting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e368	When the Stoltenberg II government first increased and then proposed that the grant to private kindergartens should be equated with the grant to municipal, i.e. up to 100 p.p., during the previous ageing period, the prerequisite was to introduce at the same time an opportunity to make equal demands for municipal and private kindergartens. Governments and governments have followed up the first assumption, but not the second. It would provide municipalities with a tool to ensure both quality and to avoid adverse impacts, for example: in the case of profits and gains, but the government has not followed up on them. I wonder what is the reason why this has not happened, that the government has chosen not to introduce an opportunity to make reasonable and equal demands on all kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e375	After all, we make similar demands for all kindergartens when we now implement a standard for staffing. It is a bourgeois government that is now implementing a standard of manpower, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party. It is a bourgeois government that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, also implements a pedagogical norm. This applies to all kindergartens, both private and municipal. It helps children to benefit more from the money, and it contributes to better quality where there are more educators and more employees. We now have an overall review of the legislation. There are many individual questions that both the representative Martin Henriksen and others travel in that context. I'm concerned that we're now seeing the whole of this, because small changes in one area can quickly give great results on another. So we now have a thorough review, so that we ensure predictability for those who drive and own, and good conditions for the children, whether they go in private or municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e382	Kindergartens and ownership have been a hot topic in public vocabulary for a long time now, and it is very good that we get a comprehensive review of the regulation and funding of kindergartens and not least supervision. Found in the report from the College of the Inland shows that 17.4 p.m. expenditure on earnings in municipal kindergartens amounted to pension expenditure in the period 2009–2013, while only 3.6 pst. in the same period went to retirement in the private kindergartens. This should be looked at. Will the government review the scheme and use of grants for pension expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e389	Yes, we look at all the findings that have emerged from the reports we have ordered, and it is important for the government to have a knowledge-based approach to this issue. I notice that some parties – and then I don't include the representative Knutsdatter Strand and the Center Party – have a very ideological approach. I think the Central Party, like the bourgeois parties, has a more practical approach to these issues. We need to ensure diversity, and we need to ensure good quality in kindergartens, whether they are municipal or private. Then we will look at these findings, both those from the Inland College, from Telemarksforschung and BDO and other interesting findings, and not least see them in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e394	SV has promoted two solutions that can help the government to ensure sound financial management. Does the Council of State see the problem, like hard tried Norwegian municipalities, that public money granted by this assembly goes not to pensions for Norwegian workers, but to parties and fun on Cayman Island and in other tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e400	I think I have to be quite direct and say that in this case we do not need SV's help. We are committed to a knowledge-based approach to legislation in the kindergarten sector. That is why we have ordered detailed reports, which we are now considering, and we will see them in context. I think we're all good at having a practical approach to these questions. We need to ensure good quality for children, and we need to ensure diversity in the sector. Then we go through all the questions that have been raised and that have come to light in the reports we have received on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e405	Now, the Council of State will soon have to take over what is happening in the real world. The decline of 1,227 ideal kindergartens in ten years and an increase of 1 000 commercial kindergartens in the same period is a massive attack on freedom of choice and diversity in the kindergarten sector, and so is Jan Tore Sanner's watch. There is no equal treatment in today's system. That's the problem. The report from the Inland College shows that one thousand million tax dollars allocated to pensions in kindergartens do not go to retirement but to purely profit for owners. It's something other than the way it's in municipal and ideal kindergartens. In addition, commercial pre-driving rights, i.e. the right to grant subsidies for commercial kindergartens, come in such a way that municipalities that have to cut the offer can only reduce the municipality's own kindergartens and not adjust the commercial ones. Is the Council of State for or against the kind of treatment of kindergartens, i.e. the commercial pre-driving right of the private?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e414	Let me first answer the first statement about who has to take reality over. After all, it is the bourgeois government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, that has taken the initiative to review the legislation. We have seen that the legislation was adapted to a time when we wanted to stimulate the large-scale development of private kindergartens. Now we have a sector that is well under way, and then we are the ones that have taken the initiative to review and develop a new regulatory framework that is adapted to the situation we now have. Then we will look at all the questions — including those raised by the representative of Moxnes about the relationship between private kindergartens and municipal and ideal kindergartens. But it is important that we have the opportunity to see these issues in context, so that we don't get the baby out with the bath water, but we get a code that guarantees diversity and ensures quality for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e421	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer in the previous round with lines, but he did not respond to what I asked for. Therefore, I would like to ask the question again whether the municipalities should be able to make equal demands for municipal and private kindergartens. Governments referred to pedagogical norms and manning standards, which are national requirements. That's good. The opposition on the Stortinget has been impatient, masted and wanted to put in place a more ambitious educational standard than the government has presented, and that it should also be paid for the standard of living. If there is something that has been a threat to ideal and small kindergartens, there is a lack of funding for them. We think it's a good principle that equal tasks give equal funding. Today, municipalities have few or no means to follow up private kindergartens that do not comply with the local authorities’ own quality requirements. We're not talking about stricter, we're talking about equal demands for all kindergartens. What is the reason why the government has chosen not to follow up the assumption that the Stoltenberg II government has made about the possibility of equal quality requirements for all kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e430	I think it's good with impatience from the opposition. Now I don't want to do as the representative and characterize it as mass. I see it more as an impatience. It's important that we have a good dialogue between the government and the opposition, but I don't want to get ahead of the changes we're looking at right now. I think it would be wrong when the civil service is sitting and going through and looking at the whole of these proposals, if I were to pre-shoot any changes. It is quite nice to have an ideological debate on this – and various proposals that can ensure both diversity and the benefit of the money to children – but I think it would be wrong now to advance any changes. Now we have to be able to see this in context. The majority will have a good opportunity to discuss this, and then the representative will receive an answer to all the questions he has in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e437	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e444	I am pleased that the Workers' Party – together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – today proposes that municipalities have access to the same requirements for private and public kindergartens. There are good reasons why municipalities should have this opportunity. Kindergarten is rarely an ideological choice for parents, but more often a question of what is available there a boron. In any case, the children deserve a good nursery, regardless of the owner. When I was rapporteur at Nesodden, I wanted to like funding and a level playing field for private and municipal kindergartens in order to help the kindergartens make a good offer, regardless of ownership. We got equal funding, equal terms proved to be difficult. Our municipal kindergartens had open 48 weeks a year. Some private people had opened up shorter, some downhill toward 42 weeks. So there was no slight difference in the offer and, as the Council of State is concerned about, in the predictability of parents. The municipality thought it was unreasonable to pay the same amount for a service that was reduced. Taking down the grant to children’s gardens with reduced opening hours, two courts tested the law. The judicial process showed that it was impossible within the framework of the legislation to reduce the subsidy to kindergartens which did not meet the municipality’s quality standard. The municipality felt that the funding model and the law gave an unreasonable impression, and that it was not possible to exercise the overall responsibility for children's growth by appealing to the good will of private actors. We were not alone in having that experience. The time that was now when there was a misunderstanding between the municipalities granting the grant and the welfare offer given. Municipalities had to build their kindergarten policies on the voluntary cooperation of private kindergartens. If they did not want to cooperate, the municipalities stood back powerless. I then thought and I now believe that the municipalities must be able to make reasonable demands for private kindergartens that they finance. In reality, equal treatment is about children getting a qualitatively equal childcare provision. We need a regulation that ensures good kindergartens for all children, no matter who owns the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e457	The undersigned has no illusions, contrary to the representative Björn Moxnes, that this is the last time we have to conduct adult training for the Advancement Party and the Right. The problem in this case is that kindergartens have become an attractive business area for investors. The consequence is that public, kindergarten money has been used for things other than quality raising in kindergarten and good working conditions, which are necessary conditions for kindergartens to have the good and safe offer that we all want for our kids. It is well documented that the wages and pensions of employees are the first to be affected by these developments. SV is also concerned that it is a municipal responsibility to provide childcare facilities. This means that the municipality is responsible for having enough kindergartens, funding kindergartens, monitoring that they are operated as they should, and that the money allocated is used as intended. Therefore, it is the funding mechanism for the non-municipal kindergartens that needs to be corrected. Covering the equal treatment of kindergartens means that the funding scheme provides non-communal kindergartens with grants to cover expenses they do not have. The largest is the pension cost, which was 17.4 pst. of the compensation of employees in municipal kindergartens, whereas it amounted to only 3.6 pst. in the commercial kindergartens for the period 2009–2013. SV believes that the funding scheme for non-municipal kindergartens is the main problem in ensuring that public money is used for the best interests of children. As long as it is not altered, the only option is to ensure that public money is used for what they are supposed to be, that kindergartens are run by the municipalities themselves or by ideal non-profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e468	I refer you to the post that the representative Martin Henriksen had, and I support the conclusions that he presented there on behalf of the Workers' Party. But I want to say something in this debate that I think there is not enough care about politics, and it is said here from the right-wing representatives that we must have a so-called practical approach to how to deal with the current situation, and that now the government's investigation must not be disrupted by the Storting. I think that's a very special approach, because it's clear that the size of the current situation has a very great need to say how we feel that this development now needs to be addressed in the current situation. There's nothing wrong with the government's investigation, but it depends on what you draw from political conclusions. When I take the word here, it's to go into a principal side of this right hand side. It's to the Right, but it's especially to the Progress Party. The Progress Party claims in every respect that they're the party most of the people, but they're not able to see that these are behind the organization of an important part of our society, the kindergartens, which contribute to the taxpayers' money and the money most people go to large groups abroad. Is that what most people do? Of course it isn't, and it shows the hollowness of the entire right-hand side argument in many contexts. They talk about taxpayers' money and their effective use, but when it comes to privatisation, taxpayers' money should be used for profit. This also applies in this case. As he indirectly does – I hope he will follow this – the Council of State can accuse the Workers' Party of not having done this before. No, we saw developments quite early, and what's happening in this case here is undermining the integrity of most people and of civil society in the development of Norwegian society by giving too much power to capital. This debate should not be over until the Council of State goes up and tells us to investigate, but he will promise to stop this profit hunt in such an important social sector as kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e477	I would like to comment on some of the claims that have been made in the debate until now. For example, there has been talk about diversity — what it is that guarantees diversity. Some claim that fewer owners reduce diversity, but is it necessarily so certain that it is? Once again, there are similarities between content and ownership. If you are afraid of reduced diversity, you will achieve exactly the same thing if public authorities take over a larger share of private kindergartens. It's not like all the kindergartens in the municipality of Oslo, which is a huge kindergarten, are quite the same. I don't think anyone wants it to be like that either. Just as we want schools and teachers to have the freedom to design their own business, the kindergartens will also be allowed to develop their own profile, their fields of activity, their special things that they are good at. It's not that there's a similarity between ownership and what kind of profile a nursery has. We can have a great diversity within the same owner. As a former local politician, I understand very well that many local politicians want to be able to make demands on private kindergartens. In this debate, however, it is almost as if we have no control at all over what is happening in private kindergartens, that there are no quality requirements. But it does. Everyone has to follow the law, everyone has to follow the framework plan, there's supervision, and it's our job to make sure that supervision is good. But the municipality cannot control everything in detail, something must be within the control of a kindergarten. It is also important to remember that we are not just politicians that affect the content of kindergarten. It's also very much the parents and the kids themselves. In a municipality with a falling children's hall, for example, which has been brought forward here, it is not that a private nursery is automatically filled up all its places, and it is not that a private nursery is automatically given the opportunity to continue. If the private nursery is not good enough, parents will choose it away and e.g. rather seek out a municipal kindergarten if it is better. Parents have a very important role to play in helping to develop and influence the offer, and in many places they can opt out of the private kindergarten if it is not good enough. But as I also said in my main post, the Left is very open to a discussion about the quality criteria – whether we have the right criteria today, and whether we have the right way to supervise. Because I'm not quite sure. I believe that supervision today focuses too much on objective criteria: you measure up to see if the areas are large enough, see if you have good enough wardrobe facilities – such things. There is too little focus on the relationship between employees and young people and on the educational content. I welcome that debate, but not in the framework set up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e488	Unfortunately, real-life denial is still at its best among the bourgeois parties. They do not take inwards that there have been 1227 fewer ideal kindergartens and 1000 new commercial ones on their watch – but also on the red-green guards, it should be mentioned. They have no measures to preserve diversity in the kindergarten sector. They only have a policy to ensure that welfare professionals can raise billions of tax dollars in private profit from running kindergartens in the future. Those who have to pay the price for this are the ideal kindergartens. They're bought up, put down and integrated into the commercial, hard profit-bearing group. We lose them, and then we lose a lot of diversity in the kindergarten sector. In addition, we have a different treatment for public kindergartens versus non-profit and commercial ones, because it is not possible for a municipality to actually reduce capacity in commercial kindergartens. They only have one choice: to cut in the municipality's own kindergartens. It's happened in Stjørdal, and it's happened in Tromsø, despite the local population wanting fewer profit-bearing gardens and more kindergartens where the money goes to the best of the children and not to private enrichment for any commercial owners. So left says that you can just change kindergarten, move the kids to a new kindergarten. In the real world, it means, first of all, how far it is to the kindergarten – many choose the nearest one – second, to take out a three-year-old from a kindergarten and shop new kindergarten not like buying shoes. It's not that. The children have relationships, they have people they'll be happy with, they have employees who know them. You can't just take your kid in and out of kindergartens like it was any commodity in a market. This is about caring for the smallest and most vulnerable among us. Therefore, the majority should support our reasonable and rather moderate proposals to ensure equal treatment of the various kindergartens and to end the commercial pre-driving right that currently exists in the kindergarten sector, where, first of all, they receive 1 000 million. kr of our tax money each year, which goes straight to the pocket and not to the pension – a completely senseless discrimination against kindergartens – and where they are second-hand protected and have an eternal right to grants, while the municipal kindergartens take the noise to reduce the capacity of the kindergarten sector. This should be strictly supported by the majority of the population — a sensible non-discrimination between the different kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e498	I think it has become very clear in this debate that it is the bourgeois government parties and the government that have now launched a comprehensive, knowledge-based, not communist or ideological review of the kindergarten sector in order to secure a diverse sector in the years to come. Nevertheless, I felt the need to answer some of the claims made in this debate. It was touching to hear the representative of the Moxnes running adult training of the popularly elected assembly. It's the first time I've heard Red or the representative of Moxnes talk about the quality of adult education, so I hope that's an example for follow-up. But I want to be able to drive back some adult education, and I hope I get the opportunity to do that, to point out the biggest and most urgent difference between kindergartens – the difference that politicians should be most concerned about – and there is the difference between good and bad kindergartens. There is the difference between the kindergartens that are capable of raising all children and driving social, emotional and professional development, and the kindergartens that become a more likely game for the children and that are unable to balance social differences. Therefore, the most important thing we can do, is to discuss the standard of living, pedagogical density, new framework plan, better transition from kindergarten to school, and not least the competence of those people who have their entire working life in kindergartens to be with their children. Then I am concerned that we have a diversity in the kindergarten sector, a diversity in owners, a diversity of large and small, but also a diversity in the educational system – that is, diversity by having an outdoor children's home or a real-time nursery, that families can send children who are very greedy about being out, in a natural-scholar nursery where they can explore. That diversity, I believe, is a distinctive feature of the Norwegian kindergarten sector, and it also means that we allow new players to get on the road, start a kindergarten and drive it, that we do not have an ideological ban on one particular actor. When the keyword is diversity, it just means allowing more people to contribute. I must also say in this debate that representatives from SV and Red, as well as representatives from the Workers' Party, disregard the fact that we have a limitation on how much money can be spent, in the Kinderhagen Act. We set the same requirements for staffing, we set the same requirements for educators, and we have a framework plan that sets the overall qualitative framework for the kindergarten sector – precisely because we are clear about what we expect from one of the most important sectors we have. It is natural that we update the legislation to follow the progress of kindergarten, but not that we prohibit ownership. There's actually a little paradox here, because Red is talking about their big fight against profit. Then I guess Red is a big fan of e.g. The learning workshop, an actor who has run some of the largest purchases in the nursery sector in recent years, but has not taken out a penny in dividends. If it's just profit Red's busy, I guess they're fighting for the Learning Workshop. I am more concerned that there is a diversity in the sector of large and small, and that we have predictable framework conditions for those who want to run kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e511	President Moxnes is talking about the world of reality. He himself is in the communist world, where he believes that everything that is public driven by definition is well driven. For this reason, he must prohibit anyone from making money to provide services that studies have shown that the private, commercial produce is better than the public. Sunn reason would then say to what the Progress Party has long claimed, that if private, commercial and ideals operate both better and cheaper than the cumbersome public system, the public can stop operating this and leave it to those who are the best and the cheapest. Because it is the case that commercial kindergartens receive a subsidy that is lower than the costs incurred by municipalities in running their kindergartens. That should be the big question for the socialists and President Moxnes: how can it be that even if they get less funding per child than the public kindergartens get, they can go with a lot of profit anyway? This is evidence of the bad public offer, which we have had many examples of. We continue to read in the newspapers and hear in the news that public activities commit crimes, most recently with NRK's revelations of mental health protection, where many crimes are committed under public law. We have had a number of scandals in Oslo, with residential buildings and care buildings, which show that despotism is being fought and in reality Norwegian laws are breaking. What we know is that if there are private companies that break laws, there will be consequences, either for the owner or the managing director, but all parties now say that when there are criminal offences in mental health protection, no one has to be held responsible. This is precisely why things are going wrong: when you have a system where no one is held responsible for criminal offences and serious errors, there are even more errors. Therefore, we welcome the fact that private, commercial and ideals can take over public kindergartens when they are actually operating them better and cheaper. And I agree that you look at the funding system, which is already under government assessment, because when it's so expensive that the public is operating, it might not be natural that what's provided by subsidies to the private is proportionate to that. We also trust the parents. President Moxnes believes that parents are not good enough to choose kindergarten, and possibly move – as they do in all other areas of life. President Moxnes is still living in his communist reality, which is an unreality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e520	I thought I'd spend some time trying to answer some of the different suggestions, because I didn't spend that much time on it in my main post. For proposal No 4, that the Storting asks the government to put forward a plan for stepping up public and ideal ownership and operation: we do not fully see that this proposal is for the benefit of children and parents, because we know that municipal spaces cost 28 pst. more construction, cf. a report from Rambøll in 2017, and they cost, to which the representative Hagen was involved, significantly more to operate. Then it was the representative Kolberg, who asked how we as a party could be for private players as long as they took profit, since we were going to be the party for the most people. For the last ten years, Norwegian municipalities have saved 22.8 billion. kr to let private run kindergartens. So this is money that we can use to give tax relief to ordinary people. Unless the representative Kolberg is set to spend almost 2 billion. In such a case, funds must be drawn from other important welfare services in the municipalities. With regard to the proposal on reporting obligations and pre-emption rights, we would point out that the EEA Agreement obliges us to free movement of goods, services, persons and capital, and the movement of immovable property is subject to the provisions of that Treaty on the free movement of capital. At the same time, we believe that the proposal is an attack on private ownership, which we in the Progress Party cannot accept. As regards proposal No: 5, that new owners have to apply for grants, we believe that as long as there is a risk of refusal of funding, there may be a significant negative impact in the sector because kindergartens will have a reduced incentive to do the necessary maintenance and upgrading of kindergartens. It can jeopardize the full range of childcare facilities, good and safe kindergartens and high levels of satisfaction. Then there were also suggestions for retirement. There I think it makes sense to wait for the final review, which is announced, but at the same time I also believe that we should be careful about detailing the sector in what they are going to spend the money on. If kindergartens want to spend money on better pensions for their employees, or if they want to spend it on several employees, better outdoor areas, new toys or more meals, they should have the opportunity to do so without being informed by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e535	I want to start by challenging my co-representatives to think a little bit about how we talk about each other's posts. It's not productive to be condescending to each other's intentions. I started my post by saying that I expect that we have a common goal, namely, good kindergartens, and I still do. So I'll keep bragging a little bit of the kindergartens, because in this debate you can quickly get a feeling that there's a lot of things that aren't good, that there's a lot of people who run bad. But all the experience suggests that parents are largely satisfied, and there are many who are driving incredibly well, both private and public. There are hardworking people with tight frames and strict leads, and a comprehensive framework for kindergartens that says what the operation should be like, what the content should be. This ensures us the good kindergarten offer we have. At the same time, there is movement in ownership and investment in kindergartens. We recognise this problem. The rules, funding and supervision need to be audited and updated. The committee was recently on tour in Canada just to learn how kindergartens are organized and operated there, when they had a good reputation. Part of the experience was that we do a lot of good here in Norway. There was a lot of activity, relationships, learning and pedagogics. To the great surprise of the Right, this was documented by the children’s own initiative. By what the children expressed and made, they could show that there was good learning and great development among the different children – without this having to test or further evidence. It was professional freedom, it was close follow-up of adults, and there was a good framework for the development and freedom of the individual kindergarten. This is what we hope to continue so that we also have a diverse kindergarten sector in the future, so that both small and ideal private and public people have good opportunities to continue to maintain their kindergarten. I guess we have a common goal: good kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e546	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e551	To Tybring-Gjedde: dividends are for amateurs, they get profit through resale, therefore billions of tax dollars out to private enrichment – as we saw with Norlandia, and as we see with other chains. That's where the money – the tax money – disappears, through the resale and purchase of new kindergartens. So to ex-President Carl I. Hagen: it was kind of like hearing an article from the last century, maybe a little bit up-to-date on the situation in the real world today. First of all, the commercial kindergartens get the same amount of money as the municipal councils, they get the same amount as the average cost of the municipalities' own kindergartens. Secondly, the municipality does not save anything on having the commercial kindergartens, but it is subsidising private profits from tax crowns. And even the Progress Party should see that is a strange way to manage the citizens' tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e558	First, I would just like to make a comment on the solutions proposed by the SV, the proposals No. 6 and 7. I would like to point out that SV has had a long time in this matter to submit proposals and address precisely these issues in the committee. The proposals are about retirement. I would like to say that the Workers' Party believes that in the proposal that is now majority voting on the funding system, pensions should also be part of it, and we assume that the coverage of pension expenditure will be part of the review that the government is now going to do, regardless of whether the proposals are No. 6 and 7 get a majority in the hall or not. That being said, we shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 6 and 7. I think most parents are not so concerned about whether their children go to a private or public kindergarten. They are concerned that the children should be of good quality and that the money should go for the purpose, namely the children. In terms of quality, since it has been highlighted in the debate, the main measure is enough qualified adults. That's where the opposition has been pressing for years. There, in the Workers' Party, we follow the tradition of the Stoltenberg II government, which was given a lift for the kindergartens of over 15 billion. DKK in eight years. Also in 2019 we have far greater proposals for appropriations for kindergartens than the government. What is the threat to ideal kindergartens is, first of all, a standard of living for which the government will not pay, for which the PBL and all private kindergartens have expressed great concern. Furthermore, the government has not provided adequate measures to combat profit or to counter the decline in the proportion of non-profit kindergartens, which have sunk over several years. Then the problem is not dividends, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde brought up. She wanted to do adult training for the representative of Moxnes, but it's not a return that's the challenge. The magazine Education had a review that showed that in 2017 there were 95 out of 3,000 kindergartens that took out dividends. So you take out the winnings and the profits in a completely different way. Here the legislation and the law have not kept pace with developments. Telemark research has estimated that the gain is actually much higher, and we know that the gain is taken out. And we've seen examples of this happening in the school sector, despite a completely different code. Today's legislation doesn't work well enough. The supervision is not good enough. And it's not good enough to control what either taxpayers' money or parents' own payments are doing. That is why the Labour Party has made several proposals during the last year in this Chamber, which unfortunately have been voted down – both on a better standard of staffing and on a more ambitious standard of education, each of which in its own way reduces the margins of private kindergartens – that is important, and that is good – but also on a stricter code of profit. It's good that the government has a review. Now they are also going to review the funding system. Then we expect them to come up with measures that actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e577	In close addition to what the representative Henriksen now said about Tybring-Gjedde's post, she says all the important things, as I hear it, about kindergartens and what they should be, and then she says it's wrong that there are no restrictions on the extraction. In particular, she's a little right about that, but we're left with the fact, here in the Norwegian metropolitan area, that we have to record that hundreds of millions of dollars are going out of the country – it's strange that the representative Tybring-Gjedde and others are not taking over – which should have been used for something else, namely strengthening kindergartens. Enough about that. I have to say this is going to be a nice day, because I've been glad to be in debate with Carl I. Hagen in the main hall. [[Laughter]] I have waited for that for many years, but the opportunity has not been there. So now it's right there. It's momentum. But so, through the President, I would like to say to Carl I. Hagen: He obviously misunderstands and abuses the concept of 'communism', but it is entirely in line with what right-wing politicians in Europe have always done, namely to try to characterize political opponents on an ideologically very unsubstantiated basis. Unfortunately, he is guilty of that in this debate. I register it and join in as far as Moxnes said, that this is a bit like from another time. I'm just noticing it. There is another side to this, as it is important to say: Carl I. Hagen preaches a market liberalism, as he did in all the years he was stuck in this hall, but what we can record – and I think Carl I. Hagen also believes this – is that ideology collapsed at the moment the Progress Party came into government. It was over. This is something I just want to say from Stortinget's pulpit, with Carl I. Hagen present, because I've been happy to do it for many years, and now I got the chance. Finally, more directly to the facts of the matter, as it is here: Carl I. Hagen correctly points out that there are lower costs in the private kindergartens, and says that the private should therefore be allowed to operate. But he's going around what's the reason for it: employment, pay and pension conditions for the employees. Of course, we cannot — profit is based on the fact that employees have to pay the price, even in a sector as important as the kindergarten sector. That's why we need this change. And I have to be allowed to say that I notice that the Council of State is still sitting completely silent and does not respond to our request to believe anything about how his investigation is to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e590	I allow myself to hang on to the representative Martin Kolberg and use the chance to say that now I have well achieved the 'peak Stortinget' when I am allowed to be in debate with Carl I. Hagen – as the institution he is for market liberalism, and as the defender he is of the kind of thinking we are debating here. So I'm very happy that I can tell my grandchildren when that time comes. In this regard, you just have to say that Mr. Carl I, maybe Hagen doesn't have much to do with dividends. If we had followed his thinking about dividends in connection with the Norwegian base when the oil profit was to be taken out, we would have had 13 000 billion. kr less to use in kindergartens than we have today. In conclusion, I would like to give an explanation of vote: SV will vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e599	What made me take the floor is that there are clearly some representatives who have not got the history of this session related to the child care sector. Because once before the summer, we dealt with a proposition in which the civil parties obtained a majority for a number of orders to the government on a review of how we were going to affect the entire sector, both in terms of recruitment standards, pedagogical norms, temporary employment, local leadership, etc. I would also like to point out that this review that we are now going to take will address many of the issues that have been raised around this with dividends, this with winnings, sales, etc. We're in the process, and we're going to hit this in a good way. Furthermore, I would just like to point out that in the law there are already clear limitations that there should be no undue return on that capital and the grant you get to operate kindergartens. It is important to bear in mind that some of the examples that have come up actually have a history that has gone on for well over ten years. From the time we had the kindergarten agreement here in Stortinget and have built up and put in full babysitting, there have been many investments from many private people over very many years. So if you start dividing what's of amounts over all these years, there's actually a lot of examples that this is nothing more than regular deposits in banks. It's also a good idea to bring it with you. But it is important that we also hit the future, and that is why I welcome this review. Still, there's something about mothering a little bit considering what's the reality. It is also important to point out that when you sell a company, what you get for it reflects the expected return. And if you hit this in a good way, it'll automatically take care of it. So the representative of Moxnes is wrong here, and I think we have a good policy in this area. I also believe that the private have shown that they have done their social work in a good way, not only because their parents show that they are very satisfied with the offer they are given, but we know that the Landsförbunder Private Barnehager is 95 pst. of their kindergartens, and thus also employees, a tariff that has pension and pay conditions that are as good as, or sometimes better than, those found in the municipal sector. And when we know, at the top of everything, that two-thirds of the private kindergartens are barely in surplus – yes, one-third even in deficit – I believe that it provides a basis for reflection around some of the slightly spiked outcomes that come from especially SV and Red here in this room in this area. I don't think it's a basis for that, and I want to say that we need more to discuss how we ensure that our children get a good upbringing and a good-quality kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e615	First, it was nice that I could satisfy the representative Martin Kolberg's wish to have something said from this pulpit while I was in the room. Then at least I have achieved something that is beneficial, seen with Martin Kolberg's eyes. But Martin Kolberg has now added to the degrees the same way of speaking as President Moxnes – it has been noticed that I am addressing him as ‘President Moxnes’, we have been doing this for a long time in Oslo City Council, President, and I have nothing against his calling me ‘ex-President Hagen’. But this word "profit" has become so negative: why in the world would it be negative? The same ones that are negative to the profit of some companies and some service areas, cheers when Equinor and the state are doing well. We politicians get huge dividends, profits, from Equinor – or from Telenor, or Avinor, or Argentum. Not to mention that we have $6,000 billion. kr invested in shares around the world in the oil fund, to get profits that we can get home and use for the benefit of the Norwegian people. It is the same Kolberg as it seems nice that Norwegian companies are sold to non-residents, because non-residents who own Norwegian enterprises, located in Norway, do not pay taxes on wealth. It's a direct contrast to what he's now talking about, that you're not going to take this out of the country. So in kindergartens you shouldn't have any profit. But what do we humans need to survive? Yeah, it's food. We need food, the president knows that. We must have a drink. It's pretty cold here, we have to wear clothes. And it's not a nice thing to go shaving, we need shoes. And here you think it's absolutely right that Rimi-Hagen was bent on selling groceries, i.e. food and drink, or the colonial major in Trondheim – or Selvaag. In all other areas where we've profited as a kind of engine for efficiency, to satisfy our customers, we're all satisfied. The things you're dissatisfied with are basically the things that are run by the public, for example. health care, where you come and get informed that if you're going to have some tests, you get it free of charge by the public if you wait for three months, but if you pay it yourself, you can get it tomorrow. Therefore, it is better the more driven by market-liberalist principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e633	The President reminds Hagen that in Stortinget we use'representatives'. The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e640	It certainly begins to be on the edge of the Rules of Procedure, perhaps, in relation to the matter as it stands, but nevertheless, as long as the President permits this. But so, seriously: Norwegian social democracy has accepted the profits and market governance of society since 1927. It is not that Norwegian social democracy and Norwegian trade union movement have not facilitated it throughout the private sector. What is the big difference in what this case is about is that here, from the right, you are willing to spend taxpayers’ money – and parents’ money – to create private profit. There's something quite different than Equinor. Of course! Hagen knows that very well, but he uses these debates to create a legitimacy in an area in which he shouldn't do it, if he represents the party most of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e647	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. The president reminds us that we're thinking a little bit about the debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e654	I must admit that I am relatively convinced that the representative Martin Kolberg and I will not agree on these things – and I am not a social democrat, I am a liberalist and a market liberalist supporter. When we see that the market economy, as the social democrats have also accepted, works very well in so many areas, yes, we should perhaps introduce it in several areas where it is not implemented today. It concerns education, kindergarten and health care. And in the case of health care, the decision-makers are self-employed people who live on the profit of taxpayers' money, paid by the public. Lots of taxpayers' money is used for corporations that make money to earn profit. The entire construction sector in the transport sector is largely private enterprises, operated according to these principles. Therefore, they should be introduced in several areas, not in fewer areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e659	The representative Martin Henriksen has had the word once before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e664	Interestingly, the representative Hagen compares the sale of bakeries and cola in RIMI and Rema and Equinor with kindergarten. It might show a fundamental difference in this hall. I took the floor to say that we have spoken together in committee management, and we thought this was so interesting and fun that we would like to invite the representatives Hagen and Kolberg to the Committee's Christmas meeting to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e671	It might have been a nice ending to this debate, so I shouldn't comment on it except to say that I thought it sounded like a very good idea, and the Council of State might also well imagine being invited, in that case! But I just want to assure the Storting that the questions that have been discussed here today are issues that the government takes for granted. We are committed to ensuring good quality for children in kindergartens, regardless of whether they go to municipal or private kindergartens. We are now working on a new regulatory framework that will be adapted to the time we are now living in and that will be forward-looking, and we will aim to get proposals for consultation during spring 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e678	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e694	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e703	The issue we are debating today, promoted by SV, is a proposal for a legislative amendment so that the right to secondary education for young people with a final refusal to apply for asylum can be valid until the date of deployment. Although we have not reached a unanimous position here, I would nevertheless like to thank the Committee for its good work. We've tried to come up with different points of view and to get what we've agreed on, in a clear way, even though there's not a majority vote here. The Committee held a hearing in the case where the hearing bodies agreed that the legislation should be amended in line with the proposal. The consultation revealed that the proposal will cover about 70 students in total in Norway, as is the case today. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, believe that there may be good grounds for ensuring a more consistent practice in this area, as this varies from state to state today, and that children and young people who have been finally rejected but have not yet been sent out are entitled to attend school. Education is important for individuals, regardless of whether they are allowed to stay in Norway or not. The majority therefore refers to Article 28 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that all children are entitled to attend school, including completion of schooling, and Article 2, which underlines that no children are to be discriminated against. We also notice what the Department of Justice and Defence said in 2010 when they said the following: ‘Cutting off children between the ages of 16 and 18 who are either seeking residence in Norway or residing illegally here from those benefits is likely to constitute discrimination contrary to Article 2(2) of the BK. 1 read in conjunction with Article 28(1) 1.’ Although Article 14 of the EU Directive on reception points out that Member States are obliged to provide the same training offer to minors with a refusal to apply for asylum up to the time of dispatch, the majority consider that Norway is not obliged to comply with this Directive, although there may be good grounds for Norway to comply with it, by considering the amendment of current legislation. The minority, the members of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, are committed to providing a good offer to refugees and asylum seekers who are to create a future in Norway, and will give priority to facilitating the conditions for refugees and asylum seekers with legal residence. The minority also points out that refugees and asylum seekers who are finally refused are obliged to leave the country by the end of the leave period and therefore consider it wrong to grant this group the right to regular training under the Training Act. I'm assuming that the minority will otherwise prepare for their own vision. Another minority, the Labour Party, considers that the right to training for young people aged 16-18 years should be considered as valid until the time of departure when the persons involved cooperate with the authorities on return. Another minority, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that it is contrary to the UN Children's Convention on the Rights of Education of Children and Young People when one cannot guarantee that one can continue to attend school until one is sent out. Higher education is part of the thirteen-year school cycle in Norway, and Norway is therefore responsible for providing education to young people living within our borders, regardless of whether they are finally refused. As long as county councils are not required to provide these vulnerable young people with training while they are waiting for deployment, we believe this leads to unfortunate discrimination. I think the Consulting Notes of the Federation of Education express this well, when they say the following: ‘The young, single asylum seekers without a right of residence face an uncertain future. They may stay in Norway until they are 18 years old, because after that time they are considered to be adults and must be able to take care of themselves. These kids are going to start a life somewhere else. The most important thing we can give them on the way is school. It provides competence, it provides a framework around an uncertain future and it can give hope.’» There are two proposals in this case. I will address the proposal Christian People's Party is promoting together with the Center Party and SV. For the Christian People's Party, I will report that if this proposal falls, we will vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, with the understanding that the proposal implies giving them the opportunity to continue their secondary education, and not building up some bureaucracy in parallel with high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e730	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e735	Today's proposal for a legislative amendment to ensure the schooling of young people with a final rejection of their asylum application is both a right and an important principle. We are talking here about high school students, young people who are in the process of their education and who are part of a school class and a school environment – all around the country. In 2014, the law was amended so that young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who are applying for a residence permit in Norway were given a statutory right to primary or secondary education. The Training Act clearly states that schooling is not considered to be related to the country during the processing of the application, nor after the decision to reject it. Because education is of great importance to all children, the Workers' Party believes it is important and appropriate to give young people under 18 years of age the right to secondary education until the time of departure, provided that the family cooperates on return. Today, this practice varies from state to state, perhaps also between schools in the same state. In some places, students will continue to receive advanced training until the expiry date; in others, training will be completed immediately after the final rejection decision. The Labour Party and a majority of the Committee consider that there are serious reasons to ensure a consistent practice for the young people concerned in such cases. In the setting, the majority of the Fafo report refers to Normality in Limbo. Asylum children on final rejection’, where reference is made to: ‘The lack of such an opportunity can lead to major social and psychosomatic problems. Youths quickly end up in the same inaction as their parents, where the status of rejected asylum seekers becomes the dominant identity.’ In the event of a final rejection of an asylum application, adults themselves have a responsibility to leave the country, no later than the deadline for departure. Students between 16 and 18 years of age are minors and therefore do not decide on their own situation. However, the goal of a rapid return is also important to help minors not live long in a situation that is unsolved. The Labour Party believes that the right to secondary education must apply as long as young people under the age of 18 are legally resident in Norway. Therefore, we propose that, provided that the family cooperates on voluntary returns, young people should continue training until the time of departure. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the young people concerned continue the advanced training they are already in the process of not being allowed to enter other offers. They shall retain networks and secure frames for as long as possible. I will then, on behalf of the Workers' Party, raise proposal No. 1, where we ‘ask the government to provide an assessment of how to ensure that minors with final rejection of asylum applications continue to undertake secondary education until the time of departure, provided that the persons involved cooperate on return. Training should be adapted to prepare for return».
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e753	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e758	The right is concerned that young asylum seekers should have a good and meaningful working day. We are committed to offering good offers to refugees and asylum seekers who will create a future in Norway. Schooling and training are an important contributor to providing young people with this, both for the young person and for society, for good language skills and education is an important prerequisite for creating a good life in our country. I am therefore pleased that in 2014, the government, as the representative of Asphjell, made sure that young people under the age of 18 who are waiting to decide on their application for a residence permit were entitled to secondary education while they are waiting for the application to be completed. I am also pleased that the government will ensure that the offer of lone minor asylum seekers who have been granted temporary residence is improved, among others. by providing adapted secondary education. Both of these measures have given many young people a better daily life and a better outlook. The right is also concerned that those who have been refused their stay but cannot be returned for various reasons should also have a good and meaningful working day. Young people who do not have a choice and who have to stay in Norway until it is possible for them to leave the country are in a difficult situation, and we must help to make their situation as good as possible. It is not so difficult to imagine that long days spent on an asylum reception without any meaningful action will be a heavy burden on young people. That is why the Right, together with the Advance Party and the Left, want the Government to assess how this group of young people can get a relevant, return-preparing activity or training offer until they can – and should – leave the country, an offer that will both make their lives good here in Norway, as long as they are here, and an offer that will enable them to meet better when they can one day return to their home country. I see that the Labour Party in its proposal also requires that the parties involved cooperate on return. It is good, because it is absolutely a point of weighing the concerns of the young people concerned, and their everyday lives, as long as they are here in Norway, in view of the fact that we do not have to add up to a practice that could lead to fewer people wanting to cooperate if possible in return once the final rejection of the application has been given. This is a balance that the proposal for SV does not take into account. However, I am somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party's proposal is limited to the fact that the offer will only be valid until the time of departure and not until the date of departure. The departure period is three weeks after the final rejection, and there is a rather short time horizon. An exit period may be extended if the parties involved cooperate on return, but as long as we talk about asylum seekers who have received a final rejection of their application – as far as I have been able to understand – these deadlines can only be extended for a very short period of time. It will therefore be much better to have predictability until it is actually decided that they can leave the country. I am also surprised that the Workers’ Party’s proposal limits the desire to provide activities or training only to those who have already started secondary education. The situation of young asylum-seekers on reception of asylum-seekers will be the same whether they have started or not to do so before the final refusal. The days of reception will be similar to all of them; they will all need meaningful activity. The proposals of the Government Parties take into account all young people who, for various reasons, cannot leave the country even if they have received a final refusal of residence. Our proposal also provides better predictability, a calm everyday, for those who can get the offer we are talking about here today. It would therefore have been better for the young people to do this, if it were the government parties' proposals that were adopted here today, but unfortunately it does not seem to be. This is a pity for the young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e775	Today's proposal from the Socialist Left is that even young asylum seekers with final rejection of the asylum application should be entitled to secondary school until the date of departure. Several parties and a wide range of organizations say they support this. Arguments include: Today's practice violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Well, does it? The aim of the Children’s Convention is to ensure that children who are expected to stay in the country for a longer period of time are entitled to schooling. This has been taken seriously. Therefore, we amended the legislation in 2014 and allowed minor asylum seekers the right to advanced education while the application process is ongoing. That's a right they didn't have before. On the other hand, we have been clear that as soon as the application has been rejected, you no longer have a legal stay, and you are obliged to leave the country. This is no longer the intention of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, because there is nothing to suggest that the person should stay in the country for a longer period after a refusal, as he/she has a duty to leave the country and normally has to leave within three weeks. The proposers, on the other hand, wish to amend the Training Act in such a way that the right to secondary education is granted independently of legal residence and until the date of departure. That is what we in the Progress Party believe is a little wise. We are primarily concerned that people who have been granted legal residence and who are to be integrated are those who are to receive help for schooling, language training, a municipality to settle in and succeed in creating a meaningful life here in Norway. Those who have been rejected are by definition illegally present in the country and are obliged to leave the country as soon as possible. The problem of giving everyone who has been denied a right to higher education should be obvious. The most common reason for not leaving the country within three weeks is the lack of cooperation from either the lone minor, family or caregivers in the home country. For example, the asylum seeker himself may want to go home, but the family in the home country does not cooperate, so that it becomes difficult. Schooling rights will not contribute positively to their leaving the country by the deadline or to their applying for an assisted return. On the contrary, it would be an incentive not to comply with UDI’s decision. They will be able to actively counter the return work and may delay the return process, including: by not helping to obtain documents and contact information in their home Member State because they are given the opportunity to obtain access to higher education as long as they train the process. Norway can become a more attractive country for people with no need for protection because schooling can be completed here even if you do not have a legal residence. Now I don't think this in itself will be an independent reason why people without real protection need choose Norway as their main destination, but disqualifying will at least not be. However, for various reasons some of these young people cannot return immediately, although both they and the caregivers actively cooperate after final rejection of the application. We have outlined this in the government platform, but then for lonely minors with temporary residence. In this case, we have had very good and constructive dialogue with both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, but unfortunately we have ended up concluding a little differently. I understand that the Labour Party has put itself on a more sensible line than the proposers, which I think is positive, but for us it has not been possible to say yes to the right to higher education even for those who cooperate on returns, because we are afraid of the signal effect it can give. That is why, for reasons of immigration regulation, we have chosen to say no to that proposal as well. On the other hand, the Progress Party does not disagree with the fact that these young people should have a meaningful everyday life until return is possible, and we therefore want to look at the possibilities for them to have a repatriating activity or training offer during this period, but the prerequisite is that they actively cooperate on returns, and that they are then so-called involuntaryly irreversible. The Progress Party is committed to providing a good offer to refugees and asylum-seekers to create a future in Norway, and one of the main areas of successful integration is education and language teaching for refugees and asylum-seekers. But if we are to succeed in integrating, we must give priority to facilitating the situation of refugees and asylum-seekers with legal residence, and not those to be sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e794	Sometimes politics is influenced by trying to think bigger than it is. In my opinion, the posts of the last representative were an example of this. Schooling for young people with a final refusal to apply for asylum is not a very big issue. Maybe it's between 60 and 70 students. It is not a major challenge for Norwegian states to allow them to continue going to high school until they leave. But it's clear that it's an important question for the very people involved, and I understand that. The Committee has been consulted and a comprehensive School-Norway believes it would be sensible to allow young people who refuse to apply for asylum to continue in school until they leave. As far as we have been in contact with the states, I feel that the states say that it is not a big problem to let these young people go to school until the date they are going out. The centre party chooses to look fairly practical on this question. Going to school is a good thing. Being able to engage and learn things is a good thing for everyone, whether they've got to stay or they're going out of the country again. We've tried to look at what's going to be the easiest, what's going to be the best, and what's going to be the most practical for the young people this is about, but also for the states as school owners and for the schools themselves. It's our opinion that letting them continue at school until they're going out is the very best and easiest solution. We also believe that no one is worthy of this group of young people being put in some sort of limbo, some sort of void in life in the period until they go out. We understand that this may lead to some of them feeling very defined as an asylum seeker who has been refused, and that they lose the opportunity to define themselves as such. one who sits and learns something, one who actually has something to do at school, even in the period until they are to be transported out of the country. There have been slightly different views relating to the various proposals. A main objection to the proposals of the government parties is that consideration should be given to the creation of a new type of scheme, likely to establish a new model, possibly new grants, possibly a new bureaucracy to look at its own arrangements for what is called the ‘return preparation activity’ or training provision. It's completely unnecessary and bureaucratic to make your own models for it. I don't think that's necessary. I just think you can let people go to school as long as possible until they're going out of the country. Making it too complicated and too difficult has also caused us to have some problems with the Workers' Party's proposal, because the last sentence, that training should be adapted 'to prepare it for return', can also point to the need to create a kind of model for 60-70 young people, a kind of self-return-preparing adapted education, and we are sceptical about that. We believe that this can be both impractical and bureaucratic. But if the proposal to the Workers' Party only means an adjustment, for example: that you reduce slightly the number of hours in Norwegian and increase the number of hours in English, I agree. So it could be a solution. However, it must not mean creating a kind of new model for the preparation of returns. I think the best service we can do for the kids is to let them go to school until the date they're going out of the country. I think we also do Norwegian county municipalities as school owners a service by doing so. I think the simplest and most unbureaucratic thing for them will be to be able to offer these young people education in the same way as anyone else. That is why the Centerpartiet stands together with the Christian People's Party and SV in proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We are prepared to vote in a subsidiary way for the Workers' Party's proposals, if we can be assured through the debate that it does not mean that the Workers' Party sees a separate model or system of return preparation measures and education to be maintained, because that is the great disadvantage of the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e811	It is rare that the school sector fully agrees on something that concerns the school. This case is an exception. The student organisation, the Education Association, the Parental Committee for Primary Education, the Lektorlag, the School Leaders Association, the National Association of Schools and the Educational Students are united: Young people who are denied their asylum application must be given the opportunity to attend school until the date of dispatch. Today, there are many young refugees on asylum reception who have finally been denied their asylum application. Some have been considered unreturnable, and others fear their lives if they return to their homeland. Despite the final rejection, they may still be in Norway for many years to come. The Fafo report Normality in limbo from 2013 well illustrates many of the problems these young people experience because of their alienation. Many become both physically and mentally ill. We can only imagine what it would be like to spend all its time waiting for the launch of expulsion. This is why it is about doing a policy that provides a safer future for individual young people than is the case today. All children in Norway are entitled to education at primary school. Many are also given the opportunity to attend high school, but since this is not a right, it depends on the right of the individual school or county municipality. According to the NOAS, the right to education is protected by both the Constitution, the United Nations Children's Convention, the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education. It is worth noting that Norway has been criticised by the United Nations Children’s Committee for not giving children the right to secondary education without having to stay legally. Reducing children between the ages of 16 and 18 who live in Norway from secondary education is discriminatory and can be interpreted as contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to the NOAS. This also helps to make the situation even more difficult for individual children or young people. Press, the Children’s Youth Organisation, estimates that about 60–70 young people on a national basis belong to the group ‘Youth with final school dropouts’, which will be directly affected by any legislative change. Youths have spread to reception throughout the country. Provided that these young people are allowed to continue in the educational situation in which they were before they were finally denied, and on the basis that the county councils spend on average 158 200 kroner per student in secondary education, cf. The training table 2017, it will cost about 11.5 million. to give them a place to go to school. This represents 0,003 pst. of the total cost of having Norwegian secondary education students. In conclusion, I just want to say that contributing to the right to training for everyone has been one of the great forces of the work movement over 100 years. In this way, I find it sad to see that the Workers' Party in this case is not willing to take the recordings from an overall school sector into account, in order to help us help people in a difficult situation further in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e828	It is important to ensure that young asylum seekers have a meaningful life in Norway while waiting for their asylum application to be dealt with. Minor asylum seekers are in a very vulnerable situation, and these should be well cared for. The government is also concerned that children and young people have access to school and education. From 1 August 2014, young people under the age of 18 who are legally resident in the country pending the decision on their application for a residence permit were entitled to secondary education. In the past, this group did not have the right to further training in Norway than primary schools. So our government made a significant improvement for this vulnerable youth group. In the case of young people whose application for a residence permit is refused, the right to secondary education shall be valid until the date of final decision. I remember that single minors who do not have proper care on return can receive a temporary residence permit until they are 18 years old, and will thus have a lawful stay. Finally, refusal means that the Norwegian authorities have decided that the youth is not entitled to protection in Norway. These young people are given an exit period normally up to three weeks. This period shall be used to prepare and conduct departures from the country. After leaving, the youth is no longer allowed to be in Norway. The SV proposers have asked the government to propose changes to the law and extend the right to secondary education until the actual date of departure. This I believe is going too far. The youth is expected to leave Norway during the period up to the time of departure, not to wait until the last day. The proposalers therefore want the right to training to be valid for a period when young people are to prepare for repatriation and leave Norway. The proposal also provides for the right to apply to young people who do not comply with the obligation to leave Norway by the deadline. I believe that we must have a comprehensive system in which the right of alienation and training are compatible. It is unfortunate and sends conflicting signals if the rights to training provide incentives not to follow the refusal of asylum and the exit obligation. The government is very concerned with the fair and proper treatment of all asylum seekers. This applies not least to minors, including those who have received a final rejection of their application for a residence permit. The rights of young asylum seekers today to secondary education are very good and also fulfil the obligations of Norway under the rules of the Convention on the right to school and education. The young person who receives a final refusal to apply for a residence permit shall not remain there for a long time. On the contrary, they are obliged to return to their country of origin by the end of the period of departure. The young people who do not comply with the return obligation or are not allowed to stay on another basis are a small group in reception and care centres today. The reason why they do not return as foreseen may be that the youth itself or their carers do not cooperate on returns. At the same time, I am concerned that people who have received a final rejection of their asylum application should have a meaningful life until they leave. However, this should take the form of measures and activities other than the right to secondary education. I am pleased that the committee wants a review of the offers these young people get in the period between final rejection and exit. In such a review, we can look at whether the offers given are good enough given the needs of these young people in the time before they leave Norway. We all agree that these young people should have a meaningful life in Norway until they leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e854	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e859	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for correcting him in the representative Turid Kristensen spoke about this with the deadline for departure and the date of departure. She complained that the Workers' Party had set an exit deadline and not a departure date. That's why I'm glad the Council of State fixed it up. There are similarities between the proposal of the Workers' Party and the proposal for decisions of the Government Parties. An important difference is the view whether or not young people with a refusal should be able to receive secondary school education until they leave. The Government Party's proposal implies that post-repudiation activity should not take place in high school and that students should leave classrooms and a good school environment after rejection. Why does the government think it is important and good that these young people leave an offer in higher education and that a new offer should be created, instead of completing where they are, and perhaps getting a better-adapted training offer, such as this. several hours in English — in view of the country to which they are going to return?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e868	As the representative also explained in his statement, it is a very short period of time we are talking about here – before leaving the country – and preferably before the deadline set. What is important to us is that we take the children's, young people's, needs at the time when they're going to prepare for departure. I believe that in the review you are about to carry out, you need to look at the needs they have in order to be as prepared as possible to go home. Then we have to look at the different offers that are. Although there is a small group today, the group can grow larger if we experience a new refugee disaster, and it is essential for us that the law on foreigners and training is adapted to each other, and does not give different incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e875	Thanks for the answer. As the representative Arnstad was in, there are 60-70 young people divided into 19 counties and different schools, so that's very few. Is it not better, then, that these young people receive an adapted offer in the school they are already in, instead of creating new offers that will be both bureaucratic and cost-intensive, and that will also apply to short periods of time, to which the Council of State itself is involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e882	I am not so sure how bureaucratic and costly this will be. It is true that there are few today, but this is because there are very few who come to Norway and get the right to stay in Norway. We now want to look at the offer this group is going to have. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that this group should be taken care of until they leave, but we believe it would be wrong to extend the right to higher education after a decision has actually been taken that they should return. We believe that it is important to look at return-preparation measures, and what will be a well-adapted offer for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e889	Is it so that the Council of State then says that there can be no provision for a return preparation in that class, in the school that the student is already, in the short period of time that this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e894	Now we have established that we do not want to extend the right to secondary education for this group when final decisions are taken. We want to look at a more custom offer that is more return preparation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e899	In my daily work I am a politician in the county municipality, and I can assure everyone that in the county municipalities we solve this problem unbureaucratically and simply. But it is problematic that there is a discrimination between county municipalities and county municipalities. Does the Council of State not see that we should fulfil our international obligations, so that there will be no discrimination between the different municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e904	Let me first say that we fulfil our international obligations. Then it is that the Training Act in many areas opens up the possibility for county municipalities to go beyond what is laid down in the law. It's not special for this group. In general, in many areas the county councils can do that, and I hope that everyone who is in charge of local self-government also agrees that we should not regulate all county councils in all areas in detail. Here, there's a room for the county municipalities as well. Let me repeat that we are occupied by this group, but there has to be a connection between the right you have under the Training Act and the incentives that are to be there under the law on foreigners. That's the whole thing we're concerned with, while we're going to take care of this youth group. That is why we will look at the repatriation measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e911	I am very pleased that the Council of State underlines local autonomy. At the same time, I do not feel fully assured that we are fulfilling the international obligations, when, among other things, The UN points out that we have a practice that can break these. Is the Council absolutely sure that he is right when he says that we are fulfilling those obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e916	Yeah, I mean it. If reference is made to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it has been established that it is not broken, as these young people should not be in the country for a long time. It has previously been referred to Dr. Juris Søvik at the University of Bergen. In his investigation, the point of intersection of «long-term» was estimated to be three months. This is a group that is going to leave a short period after the decision has been taken, so we believe that our international obligations are well cared for. We will now look at the offer to this group in order to ensure that it is best adapted to go home.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e924	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e931	I took the floor to comment on some of the posts that have been held. I must first say that with the proposal of the Workers' Party, students who are refused to continue advanced education until they leave, as long as they cooperate with the authorities on returns, retain networks, and they retain the social arena they have been in. Then there was a question from the representative Arnstad about it with the return preparation training. It is obvious to us that training should be able to prepare for return in such a way that it gives the young asylum seekers who are being refused the competence they can take with them to their home country on return. Our proposal opens up the possibility for schools to correct training in the pre-return period more towards which asylum seekers will benefit most in their home country. If a person is going to return to Somalia or Syria, it is probably more relevant to receive more education in mathematics, natural sciences or English than in Norwegian literature history. So the proposal says that it should be possible to spend more time on what prepares best for return. It is obvious from our point of view that it is not a new bureaucratic arrangement that all county councils have to introduce, but that it is an adaptation of the existing offer. With that wording of the proposal, it is also possible for the states to choose to provide a full study offer if they so wish. With regard to the government's proposals, we interpret it as implying that it is not appropriate for asylum seekers who are refused to have an offer in higher education. They have to get out of the classroom on the day they get rejected, and we don't want to be in it. Then the representative Turid Kristensen takes up the term "departure period", which is in our proposal, where the government parties have used the term "departure date". I think we have a similar interpretation of it. I realized that we agreed on that in the committee, and therefore it's a little strange that it's being used as an argument today. Authorities shall set a deadline for departure. If one cooperates on return but cannot leave due to circumstances beyond the applicant’s own control, the authorities set a new deadline and one is legally allowed to stay until the expiry date. I have not heard that the government parties or others have arranged for it to be acceptable to exceed the time limit set by the authorities. That is why I think we have taken the same interpretation into account, and I also noticed that the Council of State also used the term ‘departure deadline’ in its article. Finally, it is not correct that the proposal of the Workers’ Party will limit the offer to young asylum seekers outside of secondary education. That is not the issue or the proposal. Of course, those who are not in higher education should receive the same offer as today, or preferably a better offer than today. There is nothing in this case that restricts that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e946	I will be brief, but I would like to stress that I think it is important that we see this primarily as a matter of the right to education and higher education, and not primarily as a matter of immigration policy. It has not been added up to today, and I am pleased about that. It is also this perspective that is clearly enshrined in the Children's Convention, when an opinion is expressed on the rights of these young people, and in the legal assessments made in this matter, which we also have in the Committee's position. Then I want to underline: this is a small matter. This applies to a few dozen young people based on the numbers we have today. It is a matter that has no specific economic consequences and it rectifys a discrimination that exists today between the different municipalities. That's why today we have an opportunity to give these young people, the few that apply, a good baggage by allowing them to continue schooling until they are sent out, based on the decision that has been made. I had hoped that we could give these young people this opportunity today instead of building up a new bureaucracy with new costs and parallel runs to higher education, which I experience lies in the proposal from the government parties. Then we've got a clarification from the Workers' Party that their proposal means that you should be able to continue your secondary school education with the necessary adaptations, but you shouldn't build anything new and another bureaucracy than what's in the secondary education system today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e957	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e973	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e982	Norway is part of the EU climate quota system. In this case, we will deal with the auctioning part of the allowance system – the sale of climate allowances on a pan-European auction platform. Finally, Norway may participate in the auction system and the platform set up in Europe for joint trade in climate allowances. The way forward to connect to this platform has been a bit bumpy, and it has been long. But now we are aiming to negotiate an agreement related to the EEA countries. It was an attempt to get a special scheme for EEA countries, which is part of the background to a little time. For Norway, we are now in the final phase of negotiations with the EU for an agreement on common targets for cuts in the non-quota sector. When we get these two agreements in place, hopefully in the course of the year – including the non-quota sector cut – we have two of the key pillars to cut greenhouse gas emissions in place, in partnership with EU countries. These are two very important instruments, and speeding up trade in climate quotas is particularly important. A system of allowances has just been selected for trading. It is therefore important that Norway now starts to take part in that sale, so that we get a dynamic until we start cutting more offensively from 2020, and especially from 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e993	The EU ETS is one of the EU's main instruments for achieving its climate change objective. The emissions may not exceed the emission ceiling set for the activities covered by the allowance system. Most greenhouse gas emissions from energy supply, industry and petroleum activities are covered — a total of more than 11000 activities in Europe. In addition, aviation is regulated within the EEA territory. Norway is part of the European climate allowance system. The EU ETS Directive is incorporated into the EEA Agreement and applies to Norwegian companies subject to allowances in line with EU ETS. About half of Norwegian emissions are covered by the quota system, and participation in this is an important part of Norwegian climate policy. Auctioning is a central element of the European allowance system. Allowances not allocated free of charge to the regulated activities shall be auctioned out on the European market. The Auction Regulation establishing a method for the auctioning out of climate allowances was incorporated into the EEA Agreement in July 2012. From 2013, the sale of climate allowances would take place on a pan-European auction platform. Following the incorporation of the 2012 Auction Regulation, Norway immediately started its work of associating with the pan-European auction platform. However, the process has taken a very long time, including: because in November 2015 the EU Commission concluded that the agreed solution from July 2012 was no longer legally acceptable. In order to allow Norway to auction its allowances, the EU Commission now requires Norway to link to the joint procurement agreements under which the auction platform and the auction monitor are to be acquired. The EU considered this to be the only solution that would provide both EU and EFTA States with sufficient security of rights and obligations. It has taken a long time to clarify the background to EU requirements and impacts on Norway by linking to these agreements. The attempt to maintain the original solution did not lead. The Ministry of Climate and Environment, together with representatives from Iceland and Liechtenstein, has now negotiated two association agreements to become parties to the two joint procurement agreements between the Commission and the EU Member States. An EEA Committee decision with new adaptations to the Auction Regulation facilitates the inclusion of Norway in the two Association Agreements. By concluding these agreements, Norway shall enjoy the same rights and obligations as EU Member States in the case of joint auctioning. The delays mean that, for the period 2013-2018, more than 41 million unsold allowances have been accumulated. Additional 5.4 million allowances are planned to be sold in 2019. It will not be possible for Norway to hold or delete these quotas. The Norwegian volume is part of the total auction volume of the European allowance system. Allowances shall be made available under law to the activities subject to allowances. This means that Norway does not have the opportunity to delete or withhold allowances. Although Norwegian volumes enter the market late in the period, the level of ambition of the allowance system is not changed, which is defined by the total number of allowances made available to the activity over the entire period. In order for Norway to start selling climate allowances, the Government recommends that Norway participate in the EEA Committee’s decision to include new adaptations to the Auction Regulation and the conclusion of the two new Association Agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1012	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1028	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to three rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1037	I would like to start by thanking the family and cultural committee for a good cooperation on this round of a case that we have also worked with in the past. Once again, I am proud that we can stand together in such cross-political terms on a matter which is a major step towards equality and the organization of the modern family, where mother and father are equally important to the child. The fundamental disagreements have been largely explained earlier, then the debate on the third by 100 pst. Compensation for salaries was up in Stortingen before the summer. The proposal to also triple the parental pension scheme at 80 p.m. pay withdrawals are a further follow-up to the Storting's request decision of October last year, where the government was asked to increase the parental allowance in the parental leave to 14 weeks, as well as the point in the government statement to divide the parental leave. In concrete terms, it is proposed that parents taking parental leave of 80 pst. compensation of employees, receives a 19-week allowance for mother, 19-week allowance for father and 18 weeks for free distribution. It is also apparent from the proposition that the Ministry has not followed up on the proposal to amend the terms ‘mother’ and ‘feder quota’, but continues to investigate and work on this. So the main lines of the proposal on three-part parental leave are still very much in agreement, and we have taken that debate before. However, in the context of the examination of the proposal, the Centre Party has made a new proposal to evaluate the new leave regime at the end of 2020, and this will also be addressed today. In addition, there has been a typographical error in the proposal for a legislative decision in the event of an incurrency. I therefore ask that we correct § 14-14, first paragraph, second sentence, from «Both in conduct and adoption...» to read «Both in birth and adoption...». So I'm going to switch "feed" to "birth" and I'm going to get it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1050	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1056	Thanks to the case rapporteur for a good run-through of this case. One third of parental leave is an important issue for children, parents, equality, inclusion and society – and therefore also for the Workers’ Party. The red-green government got through to introduce 14 weeks' spring quota, and fathers took out more parental leave. This decision was first abandoned by the Solberg Government, but was re-examined after we received the request decision at Stortinget in 2017 – which was also explained by the case-rapporteur – where the Stortinget asked ‘the government put forward a case to increase the parental allowance in the parental leave to 14 weeks, to give children and fathers time together and to contribute to equal opportunities in working life’. In the treatment of Prop. 74 L for 2017-2018 The Stortinget ensured that the Workers' Party's request decision was implemented and completed one week. It is important for the Workers' Party that both parents are treated equally in the care of children, in addition to their mother's independent weeks before and after birth. Families are different. That is why we need to organise society so that both parents can contribute at home and in the workplace, and should be able to be present in the lives of children when they are young. Therefore, the parental leave scheme cannot be left alone. The Labour Party will have a society where equality and inclusion are the norm in management and in all policy areas. Our commitment to adequate and reasonable kindergartens, entire positions, equal gender representation in management, a more equal educational cycle and equal opportunities for all, regardless of gender, economics and background, are important issues in which we see clear dividing lines between the right-hand side and the Workers' Party. We want to develop the welfare state of a more equal working life, a society with less social inequality and a society that will give everyone equal opportunities, where rights are combined with duties. Prop. 74 L is now in operation. It was launched on 1 July 2018 at 100 p.m. off-takes. So now it's a continuation that will also apply to those that take out 80 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1071	The Christian People's Party was the only party that voted against the phase-in of a three-part parental leave. It's not because we're opposed to equality, I think everyone understands -- at least those who remember the active role of the Christian People's Party when we treated the government's gender equality message in the last period, which was good for description, but very poor for equality measures. The reason why the Christian People's Party is opposed to this third is that the health of mother and children must go ahead and weigh most heavily. In my opinion, it is not equality for mother to be forced back to work until she – not least healthfully – is ready for it. If you want to rule this politically, it's not a good solution to help create a bad feeling that mom doesn't get priority what mom thinks is the child's best. This is a misguided form of equality, which I suspect to a large extent is a disguised argument for the working line. Yes, work is important, but it is also care. Care for a little baby is also work. Caring is a work for which society needs to get its eyes up – and both recognize and understand that it is an investment both in the present and in the future. The Christian People's Party stands on the side of the family in this matter, we have not given up the fight for the freedom of choice of families and for the good of mother and children. We had this debate in ours. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments there, just mind telling me that the Christian People's Party will also this time vote against this law, both the title of the law and the law as a whole. But the Christian People's Party will support the proposal of the Centre Party for an evaluation of this mechanism by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1082	In the case of the Centre Party, the aim has been to increase the father’s association with the child during the parental leave. The birth rate is important in order to make fathers spend time with their children from birth onwards in early childhood years, and to share in the child’s upbringing and upbringing. After all, it was all the red-green government that introduced 14 weeks' spring quota, which was reversed to 10 weeks by the Solberg I government in 2014. The centre party is therefore well pleased that there is a broad political consensus to extend the feather quota now, and the legislative proposition we are adopting today is a follow-up to the amendment of the law adopted by the Stortinget in ours, on the phase-in of thirds of parental leave. However, the Central Party and I have noticed that the parental leave scheme has been discussed in various channels over the past few weeks. Some think it is necessary and important for equality; others are skeptical and concerned that breast-feeding and the need for postnatal recovery will be affected. In fact, there are quite a few who are very concerned and do not support this proposal that we are debating now. We in the Family and Culture Committee have, among other things: have been handed over more than 15 000 signatures on a placard called ‘allow the family to regain the right of destination for parental leave’. And we've got a lot of negative private written input into the handling of the case. It is also worth noting that bodies like the Federation of Midwives, the Directorate of Health and the Federation of Trade Unions also do not support what we are adopting today. Are all these negative voices completely wrong? I am in principle very pleased that we are expanding the feather quota, I must stress that, but I think it would have been wise for us to carry out an evaluation, as we in the Central Party propose in the vote, an evaluation that emphasises the parents' experience with the extension and third division of parental leave, the child perspective and the experience with breast feeding – a professional and objective evaluation. Through such an evaluation, we will be able to measure whether the efforts have worked as intended, we will have a knowledge base that can be useful, and not least we can get better at the issues that are now raised by more people through these hearings. I think more parties here should be able to support that, and I do not fully understand why it is not considered beneficial to carry out an evaluation when other policies are being implemented. The Institute for Social Research recently presented an evaluation of the parental pension scheme and its gender impact. I recommend everyone to read that evaluation. It's interesting and can provide useful lessons. The centre party – and the undersigned – will follow closely forward on how the third party can turn out negative, to see if it needs to be adapted to. I hope that the rest of the Storting will do as well. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1097	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1103	SV wants a society in which women and men have equal opportunities, where women get to participate in working life in the same way as men, and with it get the economic autonomy and freedom it involves, and where father gets the opportunity to be present in his children's lives from the start. But even though we like to boast about how similar we are in Norway, we know that mothers still take a greater share of care at home. We know that about 30 pst. of women working part-time, against only 13 pst. by men, and we know that women on average still earn only 87 kroner for every hundred bills a man earns. Equal opportunities at home and in the workplace are related. Fathers must be more at home with their children from the very beginning. This makes it easier for a father to take a greater part of the care responsibility even later in his or her life, and it makes it easier for women to be in full employment with a more equal care distribution at home. Therefore, SV has always fought to increase the feather ratio. That's why we're proud to have introduced 14 weeks of Dad's quota, and we're glad that the opposition got a majority to reverse the cuts in the quota one year ago. Now the government has also followed up and gone for a third model, which has already been adopted in Stortinget, and I want to especially boast to the Left for getting it in place. There's a line going from SV's fight for the Dad's quota to Left's move now. This is something as rare as a win-win situation. It's good for the moms, who get more opportunities in work, it's good for the dads, who get to be there for their kids, and it's good for the kids, who get to be even stronger on both dad and mom from day one of their lives. To the concerns of breast-feeding: the Health Directorate has recommended full-feeding for six months. With a three - part parental pension scheme, Mother will be home for over six months at both 80 pst. and 100 pst. off-takes. There has also been a discussion on the gender impact of parental leave in recent years, and the Central Party has made a proposal to evaluate the third division in 2020. SV will not vote in favour of this proposal. It's because it'll take longer than two years to see the effects. These are attitudes and structures in working life and family life that take time to see changes. Not least, everything is related to everything. We don't get equality just by introducing a third of the parental pension scheme. Therefore, this autumn SV has also promoted proposals for equal pay and full-time entitlement, because structural changes are needed throughout society to give women and men equal opportunities and genuine equality to the best of mothers, fathers and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1122	We've gradually gotten solid statistics that show that fathers today are taking out their quota – neither more nor less. Thus, developments have shown us that a reserved period is needed for fathers to spend more time with their children in their first year of life. Splitting the parental leave period into three equal parts gives a good balance between giving parents a long period of time over which they can decide for themselves and ensuring that both parents have a real opportunity to be at home with the child for the first time. It is therefore necessary to establish the parental leave period in such a way that parents are treated in a non-discriminatory manner. I am very pleased that the Stortinget today, with a broad majority, decides to change the law of popular protection for the benefit of the children, for the parents and for equality in Norway. In recent weeks, there has been a lot of involvement in newspapers and social media about the parental pension scheme. That's good. It shows that there is a system that is important to people who are important to their families and who are important in their working life. We have known that the father quota is popular, and I am proud that we are a country with many fathers who have a sincere desire to be at home with their children and spend time with them for the first time. It helps to link strong ties between father and child, it gives father the opportunity to become a boss at home, so that the job distribution at home becomes more equal, and it gives mother the opportunity to move back to work more quickly and not become dependent either on salary growth or career promotion. I still have respect for the debate on this scheme, especially the concerns about breast-feeding. In this proposal, there is nothing that threatens Mother's health or mother's opportunity to follow State breast-feeding. Depending on whether your mother chooses 100 pst parental beds. or 80 pst. rate, mother may be home after birth for a maximum of seven or eight and a half months. The Health Directorate's recommendation is full-bred to the child is six months. This is an important proposal, which is being adopted today. I do not believe that an evaluation of the proposal is necessary at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1135	A third parental leave is good for the child; it's good for the mother, and it's good for the father. For the child, it is a safe and equivalent relationship with both the nearest caregivers. For parents, it's about equality, both at home and at work. With his increased quota, Dad gets greater legitimacy at home. He is given the right to responsibility and care for his child in everyday life. That's good. And we know that dad needs the allowance in his back when he's going to negotiate with the employer and partner about his leave period. This is about creating lasting changes in attitudes. It has to be natural to think that father is as much parent as mother, even the first time. And it has to be natural that mothers take a break or two when they get to work, to nurse the child. That is exactly why I am going to vote against an evaluation of the third division already in 2020. I am to evaluate the effects of the policy we are for, but I am to make laws that are progressive, adapted to the time we live in, and the future. Then we also have to tolerate changing them when their time is over. But when it comes to liberal feather quotas, we know that change takes time. We've changed our father's quota a number of times in the 21st century, and when we last expanded to 14 weeks, it worked about a year before it was reduced again to 10 weeks. The numbers were clear in his speech: Dad takes out as much leave as he has the right to. When the allowance increases, the father takes out more leave. When the allowance decreases, it cancels out less. Now I have a hope that the change will work over time. Because it's not the rule in itself, but the changes it creates in society and in mother and father's thoughts about the parent role, which is the goal. It must be common for father to take a substantial part of parental leave, and for mother and father to be almost as long away from work when they have children. And even though I'm optimistic about equality, I don't think we'll be able to do it by the end of 2020, when the law is first set in motion the year before. In the longer term, I hope we can consider removing the quotas completely again, that they are no longer needed, that both mother and father have real freedom of choice on the leave issue and are equivalent caregivers and workers. Unfortunately, we are not there today. To do this, we have to learn from history, and we have to be patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1145	The Council of State indicated in its statement that this has been a rather heated debate, with strong feelings. It's really not very surprising, because this is something that concerns people's everyday lives. Then there are also often strong feelings. I have a great deal of understanding that many want freedom of choice in such an important phase of both their own and their children's lives. But I also think it is appropriate to stress that the Norwegian parental leave scheme and various other benefits are quite a red and flexible scheme, when you see it in an international context. There is hardly any country in the world where mothers can be longer at home with full pay as in Norway. In addition to the paid leave that everyone receives for 46 or 56 weeks, depending on the amount of pay, there is also the possibility of twelve months each with unpaid leave, which also contributes to great flexibility in family life. This makes it possible to solve everyday life in different ways. As I said, very few countries have flexibility and arrangements that are close to what you have in Norway. We'll be proud of that and we'll be happy for it. I think it's very important for parents, but it's not least very important for the children, and it's the main characters in this case. I believe that we need to both research and evaluate how such schemes work. However, such as The representative of Almeland stressed, we have to give them some time, because these are attitudes that it takes a very long time to change. There are several people who have referred to the report from the Institute for Social Research that came last week, which is a very interesting report. I think it's very important to read the whole report, and not just the part that looks at wage developments for both women and men in the workplace. The type of analysis carried out there is a purely economic analysis. With the methods that have been used, it would be very surprising if something other than what it actually shows is that there is very little going on with women's wages in such a short perspective. But only those who took parental leave have been looked at right after the legislation was amended. You haven't seen them like this. took leave five to 10 years afterwards. There may be reason to believe that this changes more when the scheme has been operated over a longer period of time. But it's very interesting to look at the qualitative part, where you interviewed a number of men who took parental leave. I think it confirms why this is so important. It says, among other things: on page 132, ‘Feders across levels of education and occupations raise the value and experience of ‘bonding’ with the child during that period. They say that it is very important that the father is at home with the child the first year of life, over a longer, continuous period, to become familiar with the child, find good routines in everyday life and learn to take responsibility for the child without the presence of the mother. Then we can have equality in the world, and in the long run it can give equality in several parts of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1156	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1168	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1177	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No 3, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4-7, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for stepping up public and non-profit ownership and operation to ensure that kindergartens are operated by public or non-profit actors.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1209	Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to introduce, or to make the necessary proposals to introduce, a requirement that, when a nursery is sold, a new owner must apply for a new grant.’ The Labour Party and the Red Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1226	Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to introduce the notification obligation and the right of pre-emption for the municipality in the event of the sale of kindergartens and to propose any necessary legislative changes to introduce such rights and obligations.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1243	Proposal No. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to change the size of the pension allowance for the private children’s households, so that they correspond to the actual pension costs borne by the nursery.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the legislation so that the entire pension allowance received by private kindergartens is used in line with the purpose and benefits the employees of the nursery.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have every support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1267	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities have access to the same requirements for private and public kindergartens.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1285	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for the imposition of the obligation to notify and pre-emption rights for the municipality in the event of the sale of kindergartens, including an assessment against the provisions of the EEA Agreement, and to propose any necessary legislative changes.’ The Socialist Left and Red have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1309	Red has warning support for the option. The President assumed that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1327	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the law, so that the right to secondary education for young people with final refusal of asylum application is valid until the date of dispatch.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1353	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of how to ensure that minors with final rejection of asylum applications are allowed to continue to take up secondary education until the expiry date, provided that the persons involved cooperate on return. Training should be adapted to prepare for return.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Central Party have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1377	The president assumed that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1400	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1414	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1419	It looks like there are several errors that have been detected. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1435	During the debate, Mr Sem-Jacobsen put forward a single proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget requires the Government to carry out an evaluation of the parental leave scheme at the end of 2020, which entered into force on 1 July 2018. The evaluation shall primarily address the experience of parents, the child perspective, the health consequences for mother and the experience of breast-feeding as a result of the change in the parental and maternal ratio.’» The Christian People’s Party and the Red Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1452	During the debate, a typographical error was made in the legislative decision under the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-14. The word «entry» was addressed to «birth». The Committee had recommended that the Storting should take the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1515	The Christian People's Party has warned that they will protest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1528	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President assumed that the Christian People's Party wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1542	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-22.ana.ud378e1567	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
