ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e25	The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. An application for welfare leave is submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative Heidi Greni from 31 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Geir Arild Espnes, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e50	Geir Arild Espnes is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Gleditsch Lossius, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e57	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Knut Arild Hareide, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Trude Brosvik and myself, put forward proposals to ensure that attempts to buy sexual services are punishable. I would also like, on behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Knut Arild Hareide, Hans Fredrik Grövan and myself, to propose that tablets, PCs and similar devices accessible to children in kindergarten and in primary school should use filters that prevent students from accessing seriously harmful content online.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e64	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e82	The President proposes that the allocated speaking time be limited to 3 hours and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Right 50 minutes, Advance Party 30 minutes, Center Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, up to six members of the government are given 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that — within the allocated speaking time — a sequence change be made of up to eight lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties. The President will also propose that up to 12 replies be given to the Prime Minister’s observations and up to eight replies from the other members of the Government. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e97	Let me first congratulate the representatives of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left – the country has finally received a new government. There are several objectives both in the Jeløya Declaration and in the political platform in which the Workers' Party agrees. This is one of the most important tasks we face in our society. But the aid only applies if the government comes back to the Storting with measures that really follow the high ambitions, and only if the inclusion does not become an insecurity. Because in other right-wing countries, we have seen how inclusion and flexibility have mostly been the focus of policies that lead to more temporaryity, more insecurity and weaker rights for workers. It won't get our support. Both the text of Yeløya and yesterday's presentation are at the heart of a recognizable political project for a government made up of two right parties, the Progress Party and the Right, now further developed with what we now know as the third right party, the Left. It is a platform with a clear direction, but it is unclear about the policy. Erna Solberg's ability to pick honorary words and speeches from many worlds in our society: like that we want trust and little differences between people, such as that a high level of organisation is a strength for society and a competitive advantage – we were told yesterday – as that every student should meet a well-qualified teacher, as that it should be safe to get older, as that we should develop a sustainable welfare society. But even political proponents become hollow when they are not followed up by policies that deliver, perhaps rather on the contrary. What we see is that the differences increase over time, the forces that pull in that direction, are strong and many, and they come from within and outside. We see that working life actually becomes more unsafe, and it becomes less attractive to be organized. We're heading towards a teacher crisis in Norwegian school. We've got an elder minister who spends the most time on an administrative reform hardly anyone believes in. We see that our common well-being is now to be challenged by more privatisation and commercialisation. We see that cuts in taxes are still the universal key. We see that important Norwegian advantages, such as national ownership, should be weakened or that regional policy instruments should continue to be built up. In several areas, the government is taking a new step to the right. The Jelaua declaration shows clearly, and in some areas more clearly, distinguishes the batches in this room. The new, however, during this period is that the government cannot count on a clear majority. The left has chosen to become a party in the Right and Advance Party family. The Christian People's Party has chosen to stay in the center. They rightly point out that we have received a government without reference to our national cultural heritage. They choose influence through the possibility of majority voting in the Storting. That's what results are. We already see it – as the clarification yesterday by an important majority to ensure better care for people with dementia and that the investment grant will also apply to care for the elderly, not just new buildings. Today, a number of proposals are being put forward which will bring together a majority, including: to ensure the development of good housing for our elderly — individual proposals that together mean a difference for people. The Labour Party sees four important areas in which the right-wing policy of this government will be challenged. First, working life: in Norway, we have a social model that has served us well, based on cooperation in the workplace, many in work and a well-organised working life. Now this model is under pressure. The proportion of us who work falls. The proportion of us that are organized now falls below 50 pst. Social dumping, crime at work and unsafe conditions in the labour market are increasing. The government's policy will make this worse. It's not long since the Left's leader, Trine Skei Grande, said she was "feeling sick of LO." The attitude of the organised labour market appears in this platform. Unorganised work shall be ‘recognised’. The trade union deduction is cut – in 2021 it will be at the same level as in 2013. The consideration of the workers who are most strongly in the labour market is given to those who are weakest, those who need laws, regulations and protection and a strong trade movement by far the most. There's the wrong policy at a dangerous time. We want to strengthen organised working life, for job security and for the security of migration in a meeting with more digitisation. Secondly, there are traditionally small differences between people in Norway. It's fair, it builds trust, and it facilitates conversion. Now the economic differences are increasing in Norway, strong forces are pulling in that direction, as I said. Policy must fight against it and not, like the government, contribute to that development. Also in the next period, the wealth tax, which is mainly paid by the richest in Norway, will be further reduced. It'll increase the differences. The property tax is to be cut. The results will be cut in the welfare of municipalities. It increases the differences. Again, the tone is a coal fiery belief that tax havens should have a miraculous effect on economic growth. There's right-wing policy at its most recognizable. It's right-wing policy that will increase the differences. We'll secure the well-being as a splinter layer. It is both fair, modern and effective. Thirdly, in Norway, we have joined forces to provide people with security and equal opportunities. It's working. It is not the privatisation of well-being that has provided ordinary people with a proper safety net and a welfare society that provides opportunities for the vast majority of people. The Government will facilitate a level playing field between private and commercial interests. It's the recipe for privatisation. Now we are facing huge welfare tasks – we get twice as many older people in one generation, we are going to fight school dropout, which is too high, provide competence throughout our lives, provide good and safe health services to everyone across the country, and much more. There are challenges that we face best by focusing on public welfare. It has proved to be fair, modern and effective. Our job is to ensure that it is safely funded and well manned by competent and safe people. We will give the employees time, competence and confidence to do their job. The privatisation of the government devastates the community of resources and competences, as we see with free treatment choices in hospitals. The privatisation of the government creates interrelationships and double roles, as revealed in child protection. The privatisation of the government undermines the rights of employees, cuts in their pensions and prevents the transparency of errors and shortcomings, as we were documented last year, among other things. at a nursing home in Moss. It's immature and old-fashioned. We're going to do everything in our power to prevent the right party privatisation line from getting a majority in this hall in these four years. Fourthly, the most important feature of our social model is that we have a lot of work to do. We have managed to create jobs across the country, not least by building on Norwegian advantages such as oil, gas, hydropower and fish in close interaction between public and private. The Labour Party will focus more on this recipe, which has served Norway well. It is also possible for Norway to cope with major technological changes. The government doesn't add up to it. The government is in favour of a ‘reduction in state ownership’. The government will also focus on ‘wide-ranging schemes’ in industrial policy. The arrangements targeted at creating jobs throughout the country — inland related to forests, along the coast and in North Norway related to the sea — are further cut. And then here we think differently. Norway can do better. What gives us opportunities in our country is that we are free people supported by strong communities, that it is more than honorary words and fine wording, that it is a red thread in practical policy. This is not the policy of the blue-blue-blue government. But neither does this government have a majority in this Chamber, in Norway's big business. The Labour Party will therefore work with the parties on the Stortinget to form a majority in matters and majority for a different direction for our society in the years to come. I'm addressing the suggestions we've been making.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e139	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e146	This government wants to create a sustainable welfare society both economically, environmentally and socially. The government is clearly aware of Norway’s main challenges and provides good and concrete answers to these challenges. But the representative Gahr Støre does not like that we use honorary words – because we do not mean it, according to him. But it doesn't help to be a sustainable welfare society if you're opposed to what makes it sustainable. For example, when the Workers' Party: is contrary to the obligation of activity for social assistance recipients, which has resulted in a sharp reduction in the number of young beneficiaries of social assistance, when one is opposed to phase out the machine tax, which even the trade movement considers to be an obstacle to the creation of more jobs, when one is opposed to a road reform aimed at saving taxpayers for 30 billion. kr – yes, then one is also in practice against a sustainable welfare society. The question of Gahr Støre is therefore: Will the Workers' Party support the government in a policy for a more sustainable welfare society, or will the Workers' Party steer away from reforms that our country needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e153	The Honorary Word we can agree with, but the recipe for a sustainable welfare society in Norway is that people work, that they are qualified for work, that they meet the good teacher, not a temporary worker who comes in without qualifications, and that the split layer we have, really bets on the competence of people and the security of those who are at work. I think it's a recipe that many countries look at when they look at the Nordic model, especially in the face of the transformation and use of new technology. It's good to have a duty of activity. It already gave the municipalities the opportunity to give. But we also need to have a right of activity – we need to make sure that it is made possible for those who are given this obligation to also have the opportunity to use their abilities and assumptions. It's the organization and follow-up to get this sustainability, get up the share of us who work, so we get a income base for the community, that separates. I think we're going to see in this room that the recipe for reaching a honeymoon – sustainable welfare society, for which the Workers' Party has always fought – is going to separate, and I think the government will feel that there will be a majority for a course different from what it points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e162	I'm pretty sure there'll be a majority in this room for the main goals the government is now moving up. I also hope that the Labour Party will be constructive. But when I read the representative Gahr Støre's comment on the government statement yesterday, I was a little in doubt. There he says according to NTB: ‘Reality is increasing differences, teacher crisis in school, a more brutal working life without a level of competence, increased tax cuts and zero deliveries on how to finance the promises.’ As far as I remember, and as far as I know, Norway is still the country in the world in which it is best to live. It is the country that cuts most of the indicators. It's the country as many on, for example. The liberal side in the United States refers to showing a society that works. Then my question is: Is the representative Gahr Støre of the opinion that this government is making a serious breach of the Nordic welfare model that he himself is so concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e174	It's a pretty big joint-ownership in Norway. We're going to recognise that, and it's a strength for us. But I think the direction of the course is wrong – the belief that we are now going to equate private suppliers to the solution of key welfare tasks, and the belief in tax cuts, as other countries have practiced, that give rise to increased differences. Increased differences are a complex phenomenon. It comes from within and outside, and it goes over time. Politics must work against it, not with it. Here we talk about direction and how we start from what is Norwegian preference, Norwegian resources, Norwegian people – a competence reform. I think NTB represents me very well when they summarize what I said yesterday. I think we all agree that we need to find qualified teachers for our kids, and even our grandchildren will get it. But then we want the teachers who come are not separated, that there are no temporary workers who have to fill the places, as rapporteurs around the country now say they have to do. That's because we haven't invested in doing that. It is the responsibility of the community and it is the possibility of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e181	I don't know if it's gripping or laughing well, but it's probably real quotes. It only shows one thing: that the Workers' Party, which has been a member of a mixed economy, where private kindergartens and private road entrepreneurs are responsible for an important part of welfare production, where many important sectors are privately owned, now believe that this is a four-word – that is, it is no longer a honorary term. The public take over of all tasks is seen as the new solution for the Workers' Party. I wonder then: has the Workers' Party strayed from the model that has been the important foundation for the development of the welfare society in Norway, namely that one has an interaction between private and public actors? Now it sounds like everything that's private is a shell word, and that's what I think the representative Gahr Støre is pretty bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e186	Some of the most proud moments we have in the Workers' Party are when the Right mentions what was the Workers' Party – all the great qualities we had before, all the recipes we had to create the good society they are now sitting and ruling and taking responsibility for. We got full child care coverage through a collaboration between the private and the public. We have developed this society through a mixed economy where private solutions are creatively delivered, involved in the economy and can make good money on it, but where the core of the solution of the tasks that ensure that we have equal rights and small differences, and that those who need to be seen are seen, is a public responsibility. When we get a policy that equates private commercial players with public responsibility in some areas, the model of the Workers' Party was proud of, as liberals in the United States look to, and as others come to pick up lessons from. You can't copy a community model, but you can get lessons. The lessons that can be learned from Norway now, we warn against. We have to be constructive in Stortinget, it's always the Labour Party, but what's constructive now is to bring together a majority for another policy and a different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e193	I note that the Workers' Party is turning into a hot defender of the social property tax and is very opposed to the reduction of property tax, as the government statement promises. Among other things, the rapporteur of the Labour Party in Porsgrön has gone out very strongly: if the property tax is reduced, you either have to get rid of teachers or close the nursing home. What's interesting is that in that period of Porcelain Workers' Lots have steadily increased property tax, at the same time they have found room to grant almost 50 million. kr to a municipal property company, and a riding facility has been built for almost 40 million. kr. That is to say, the entire annual income from property taxes has been allocated to that type of project. Does the representative Gahr Støre think that this is a proper priority of the population's money, or should perhaps be more spent on elderly care and school in that municipality, as in many other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e199	The highly skilled rapporteur in Porsgrund, Robin Martin Kåss, has made sure that new hospitals have been built in his municipality – a public hospital. I have participated in celebrating and marking the nursing homes – very good policy! Here, as with other taxes: as little as possible, as much as necessary to solve these problems. What we have seen in these four years is that the property tax has gone up in municipalities by municipality – also in the Right Party and the Advance Party – because those who are close to the needs of people see that it is necessary to provide childcare services, care for the elderly, to solve those core tasks. This is due, inter alia, to: the policy pursued by the majority in this Chamber during the previous period. If the use of oil money – which was not mentioned in the government statement yesterday – is to be kept at the level that the majority of the population and the government said at the end of the previous period, and not as a release as in the previous period, there will be a choice between tax cuts and welfare cuts during this period. If we go down the taxes, at both state and municipal level, we're going to do the problems worse than we've done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e208	It says nothing when Gahr Støre says that this is a blue-blue-blue government, or that it is a gray government. What matters is what policies are actually set out in the platform and will be pursued: we keep the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja free from impact assessment; the fur industry is to be shut down; we are to meet Norway's climate obligations. It's a greener government than what the Workers' Party has ever been part of. On the social side, we want, among other things, take steps to reduce child poverty and poverty, create an inclusive working life for all, including people with disabilities and for those with holes in the CV. Ethnic minorities, too, are to be lifted up and down, and it is a key point for the state to go ahead and show the way. So this is called Gahr's Large Blue-Blue and Grey. We live with that more liberally. For us, it is important that the government solves the challenges of the future and seizes the opportunities, and that the policy is actually turned towards the centre. Does the representative Gahr Støre intend to be constructive in helping to solve the challenges of the future, or will he continue to be most concerned with labeling others?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e213	Constructive! Otherwise, I did not use the word ‘grey’, but I heard the representative Raja use it. The government is blue-blue-blue. It is symptomatic that he must use an article to say what Left has got through here. Now I understand that the closure of fur animal nutrition is left's impact in this government and not necessarily the government's policy. It's going to be interesting to follow. I congratulate the Left on the seat of the government. We have to meet it constructively. We must contribute to good solutions where we agree, and that is what we are in some areas if the policy is to follow the good order of honour. However, in areas where the organisation of work is weakened – you have to recognise that it is not organised and cut off from the trade union deduction – you cannot operate it while making a post on the interlocutory here and saying that a high level of union is a competitive advantage for Norway. If you are to gain a competitive advantage, you cannot destroy the instruments that really contribute to it. We're going to have such meetings in this room to realize the honorary words that can unite us, but in a political direction that gets a majority here. I am much more optimistic about the Christian People's Party in the centre, now that the Left has chosen its partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e224	We have been able to follow the TV series «Sibling» on TV 2. He shows us that a diverse society makes us richer. Among other things, we can meet Elina and the brother Pablo, sitting in a wheelchair. The Veslesistera is asked what it is like to have a brother sitting in a wheelchair, when the brother quickly breaks in and says, ‘If you’re wondering what it’s like to have a little sister who can walk, it can be quite funny – and a little annoying’. I'm dealing with this because this TV series shows some of the ethical dilemmas we face as politicians when we're dealing with, among other things. the biotechnology message this spring. My challenge to the Workers' Party is: We know that we can let technology control ethics, or we can let ethics control technology. What does the Workers' Party want? Would they agree that ethics controls technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e231	We do that with politics, and in politics we believe that we should focus on both ethics, morals and the opportunities offered by technology. Biotechnology presents us with some rather difficult challenges, but it also presents us with some fantastic opportunities. Today we heard early on how Norwegian and Swedish doctors are solving the cancer problem in new areas – because we have a strong research environment, very much of what is publicly funded at our university hospitals, among others. I am approaching these biotechnological opportunities with the ethical and moral responsibility we have as politicians in this room. I don't think there are very clear traces in the government statement of this. The message we received in the past period also leaves a great deal of room for debate here in Stortinget. But we have managed to take that responsibility earlier, and I believe that we must also be able to take it now. Then, of course, there should be a society that places human dignity in the centre, that shows that we are diverse, and that respects that there are differences between people. But technology also gives us great opportunities to solve problems, cure diseases and give people opportunities they didn't have before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e236	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e241	For the second time after World War II, a Right-led government has been re-elected. It is a declaration of trust by the voters, a trust to be managed with care. Yesterday, the Prime Minister presented the government statement to an extended government consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. It is a broad civil platform that provides good, concrete responses to the main societal challenges facing Norway. The goal of the government is to create a sustainable welfare society. In good conservative tradition, it means delivering society in a better or as good condition as when we took over it. When the world changes, that means that we have to change to preserve. We need to modernise welfare, enable us to face technological and demographic changes and ensure that Norway is sustainable, both economically, environmentally and socially. The government has identified six challenges that need to be addressed if we are to succeed in achieving this objective: We have to convert the Norwegian economy because we need growth, new jobs and more legs to stand on. We have to meet Norway's climate obligations because we have to take our share of the responsibility to meet the climate challenges. We must create an inclusive working life. Technological development creates great opportunities for job repatriation, empowerment and efficiency, but also challenges existing jobs and individual competences. We must ensure good welfare arrangements. It is a pleasure that more people live longer. At the same time, the sustainability of welfare schemes depends on more people being active longer. We need to reduce poverty. Too many are affected by poverty and exclusion, without the opportunity to create their own good life. We must implement an integration promise. International migration is unpredictable, and we need a high level of preparedness for rapid shifts. It is absolutely crucial both for the individual and for the sustainability of our welfare systems that we succeed better in integrating into the labour market. With a highly educated and adaptable population, few countries are better equipped to cope with migration than Norway. We have good welfare services. We have little differences and many in work. In fact, today we are considered the world's best country to live in. It may be worth remembering when we hear opposition posts today about everything that is wrong in Norway. Right wants Norway to be the world’s best country to live and live in in. The most important thing we can do to contribute to it is create more jobs and qualify people for these jobs, jobs that have to be profitable, productive and green. It ensures economic sustainability, that more are included and that we achieve our climate goals. The Jeløya platform is based on the many agreements Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party have joined forces in the Nydalen and the Stortinget. Only in the last year have we worked together on a number of important issues for Norway. Before Christmas, the country was given a new budget, with important efforts like new hospitals, phasing out machine taxes and strengthening police and defence, to mention something. The long-term plan of defence and the agreement on the country power in November provided an important basis for a safer Norway, with a renewed protection obligation, more training and better equipment. And before the summer, the same batches gathered on a new national transport plan, which will link the country, reduce the number of accidents and deaths, and not least boost the growth of Norwegian business. These are just a few examples of the good cooperation that the Right provides for the work of the Storting in the next four years. We are pleased that the Left has chosen to enter the government, and has an open door for the Christian People's Party also in the future. The main task of the State is to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. Therefore, the Right and the Government will work for a safer Norway. We believe that Norwegian security is best ensured through international cooperation, committed alliances, increased trade and dialogue with the widest possible countries. Comparisons between the long-term plan and the land-use perspective form the basis for policy in this area. At the same time, the threat picture is changing. Last night, the PST leader pointed out that the threat of terrorism against Norway is extremely real. At the same time, she pointed out that the work against terrorism is effective, and that a number of those who have been concerned about PST are in prison and sons of judges. In many countries we see a more polarized political landscape and that parties refuse to take responsibility. What we're doing now is finding common solutions that are good for Norway and good for people. I hope that this growth can work constructively to create a more sustainable welfare society, that one can find solutions to create more jobs and qualify people for these jobs, that one looks for new, cost-effective measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and that one says yes to cooperating across party lines. I look forward to a good debate on the government statement and good cooperation with the Stortinge in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e288	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e293	It was interesting to listen to the representative of Greece. He framed good target formulations. They're very nice – yes, I want to say they're pure cuddly, part of them, but just a little wretched. What is clear, on the other hand, when it comes to the policy of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, is that there is a clear right-wing policy with more privatisation, more postponing competition and, not least, deepening our common well-being. We see, for example: that a person is talking about the option of the elderly, while the first minister of the elderly is doing it as a political initiative, is saying in the VG that she wants luxury housing for the elderly, after Stein Erik Hagen says that this is something he wants to invest in. In that case, there is too few freedom of choice for those who have the most. There's a policy for increasing differences between people. And my question is, how do my Helleland think that more luxury housing from private investors can contribute to a better elderly care for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e300	I do not feel that is the main question in this declaration debate. The provision of facilities for varied and different elderly homes must also be supported by the representative of Hadia Tajik. The important thing is to actually state that the Workers' Party now seems to adopt an attitude that shows that focusing on an interaction between the public and private sectors, that is something that is now scary, that is something we should really be opposed to. For everything now said from the Workers' Party is a suspicion of the private business and those who want to create values. Is there anything we need in this country in the future, there are entrepreneurs, people who want to bet, people who want to contribute to the development of our business – who lay the foundation for the sustainable welfare society this government so strongly wants, and who I think there is really a broad consensus here on the Bighold. I am keen to see what proposals and initiatives the Labour Party will make to weaken the opportunities of private business in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e309	Now we are seeing it again: it is the fine formulations of freedom of choice and possibilities, while the content of the policy, which is what this debate is about, simply suggests that it is the wallet that governs what kind of welfare provision a given. There are also some fine things about working life in this platform that the government has presented. They want an inclusion virtue, and it sounds really fun. But there are some disturbing features of developments in the world of work today. For example, the degree of organisation has fallen below 50 pst., and it is quite serious for several reasons, not least because it weakens some of the characteristics of the Norwegian working life model, with strong unions where there is community and responsibility. NHO Director Kristin Forest Lund is also concerned about this, for she says that lower organisational levels mean greater elements of crime. My question to the representative of Greece is first of all whether this is something he agrees with – does he agree with the NHO Director that it is worrying to see this development with a lower level of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e317	I have a very strong sense that we have tripartite cooperation and that we have strong trade unions. But it's probably a little slow to give the Right and the Government responsibility for the downgrading of the organization. I've seen debates about Lo's lack of appeal outside of new professional groups, I've seen other trade unions grow now, and then to assign the government a responsibility for getting up the organizational level – and probably Hadia Tajik is most concerned about getting up the membership of the LO – I think it's a little wrong. However, the government statement is full of policies; it is full of single points that will help to strengthen employment, which will help to strengthen inclusion and integration. Then the representative would like to call it honorary words, but it's great with honorary words when it really produces results. And now, when we see a development where growth in Norway is rising, and where unemployment has gone down and flattened out, we're on the right track. We're going to keep going on that track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e324	I did not blame him for the decline in the level of organisation, I described a development, and then I asked him what he intended to do with it. Now he's going to have a third chance to try to be concrete in answer to my question. It is interesting to see how, on the one hand, he recognizes to some extent that there has been a decrease in the level of organisation and that it has worrying features, while in the government statements they write: «The Government recognises that many workers choose to be unorganised.» In this way, they give some sort of clapping on the shoulders of the unorganized working life. My question is, how will Right fight a development that they recognise at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e334	Here I think it is important that the representative Tajik separates a little. The fact that some workers choose to be unorganised must, of course, be the choice of the individual. The fact that LO and other trade unions do not get the level of organisation they want must be their challenge. LO, YS, the academics and all the big jobs every day to get new members. Then the question is, why don't they succeed? Is it because employment is changing, or because they do not provide good enough services? I hope we have strong and good trade unions, we need strong tripartite cooperation. But we're not going to underestimate people's right to choose to be unorganized. It has to be up to the individual. What we want to say is that those who are unorganized must, of course, also be subject to the same rules of the world of work. They must also have the opportunity to have safe and good jobs in a serious working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e339	We live in a troubled time. Norway needs strong national defence. We need a well-functioning land power, and we are totally dependent on NATO, which is our basic plank of security policy. Prime Minister Erna Solberg stated in 2015 that she felt there was some customs duty with percentages – when the debate was about the 2-percent target for the defence budget. The hearing concluded that the NATO obligation should be met at 2 p.m. Last week, Frank Bakke-Jensen sent a letter to the Stortinget saying that the proportion that goes to defend will fall in the years that are coming, not up. Is there a development that the Right of the Storing supports, or does the Right of the Storing still believe that it is wise to reach the 2-percentile?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e346	I spent a little time in my main post stressing the importance of defence policy, and how happy I am that a broad majority of the Stortinget are behind both the state administration and the long-term plan of defence. Unfortunately, the Center Party did not select to join these matches, but decided to run its own line of work with its own schedule. What Norway boasts is the effort we have to build up strategic capacities that can take care of our special role in the northern regions. We have a new F-35 programme that is historically large. We're going to add 180 billion to the defense. kr more than what was the design framework of the long-term defence plan of the red-green government. So there's a huge effort now to rebuild a defense that had been more or less broken, or that was under construction, under the red-green. We want to achieve the objectives set by NATO, but we want first and foremost to implement the long-term plan set by the vast majority of the Grand Duchy, and I have not seen anyone who has made proposals that will help to increase it violently with new capacities. The centre part is running its order, but the rest of the Stortinget is largely assembled.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e351	The Central Party is committed by Norway to NATO, for Norway, as a small country, is totally dependent on having a strong NATO alliance. Prime Minister Erna Solberg himself was involved in negotiating the 2 % target, and our country has a commitment. The Minister of Defence informed the Stortinget last week that the proportion to be defended if the long-term plan is financed, as stated in his letter, will decrease in the coming years. That's the opposite direction of reaching the 2 percent that we've committed ourselves to. Does the Right of the Storting believe that it is right that the proportion that goes to the defense should go down when we see the enormous challenges we have, not least in our country power, in the Army and in the Home Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e358	First, Norway has met NATO’s investment share target — it is also one of the main objectives of the Wales Decision, namely the proportion of the user’s investment in the Defence. There, Norway meets its objectives. So it's still a little bit until we reach the 2 percent. It's also because we have a good development in the Norwegian economy, because GNI is increasing, etc. Our goal is to implement the long-term plan that a large majority on the Stortinget have put themselves behind. If there's a strong desire in the Storting, if there's a situation that requires us to increase it further, of course, right won't stand in the way to discuss it, but the main point must be that we can once and for all meet the plans the Storting decides. Previous governments have made plans that have been too scarce – and have not managed to meet them. There, the representative, Mr. Slagsvold Vedum and his party have a great responsibility, for the party has spent eight years in a red-green government that did not at all contribute to strengthening the defence of Norway. Now it's a huge increase, the strongest increase we've seen in many, many decades. We are proud of that, and we must fight for our NATO commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e363	The platform we are going to discuss today has rhetoric for absolutely everything, but measures are too little. One of the rhetorical jewels that the government wants to wear is that they represent green conversion. But what has the government done in recent years? Yes, the large investment in research, the single investment in research, has gone to petroleum-related research. Looking at innovation support and instruments, there is still a device for a petrodependent economy. The result of this policy is: there is a fall in the mainland industry, there is a deterioration in the trade balance – and one still steers towards a petrodependent economy. So what time does Right intend to change the strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e368	Had it been like the representative of Knag Fylkesnes said, we had to change the strategy quickly, but what he says is wrong. There has been a strong commitment to green migration, to renewables. Growth funds are established. It's been researched more than ever on renewable energy, on green conversion, on bets on different things. Just look at the car policy, which was reformed by this government, which has made us grow enormously in fossil-free cars. There is a bet that no government has ever been near. It shall be strengthened and followed up. It is possible that Knag Fylkesnes believes what he himself says – I do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e375	This is the fact. It's a case in the Norwegian industry. From 2015 to 2016, there was a regular fall. The trade balance is deteriorating. It's an absolute fact. It's also a fact that of the single bet the government has been doing research, the petrorelated research has been given the most. It is also a fact that when it comes to the offshore tooling system, the innovation system, it is still the big device of petrodependence. What's of greater bet on other things, which are going to point towards a green transition, are small bets. The clear direction this government takes is: Continue as before, no change, sit quietly in the boat! Then the question is, when does the Right intend to take these facts into account and change the strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e382	The political platform states in paragraph 2: ‘Comply with Norway’s climate obligations, so that we take our share of the responsibility to address the climate challenge.’ It is a key point for this government to pursue a policy that helps to take the climate challenge seriously, to reverse a trend that causes us to get less emissions, to get control of the climate challenge that everyone sees is serious. But you don't do that overnight. And the fact that Norway makes money on oil, we should be happy; it is the main source of income to Norway for many years to come. We're not going to throw wrecks at that bet. On the contrary, we intend to continue the development of our fossil resources. But we can have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We can bet on renewables, we can bet on wind and sea, we can bet on a fossil-free car park. There's a lot of things going in the right direction. This Declaration of Government contributes to further strengthening it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e395	The teacher’s norm will provide about two thirds of primary school students with increased access to the school’s main resources, which are the teachers. This means that teachers are given more time for individual students, for professional and social follow-up and for better prevention of bullying. In recent years, there has been a parent rebellion in Oslo against a redistribution of teaching resources from Oslo west to east. Through the introduction of the Christian People's Party model of teaching standards at school level, all students in Oslo will now have equal access to teaching resources in ordinary education, wherever they live. The representative of Greece is pleased that the Oslo School and the rest of the country are now allocated the teaching resources of their parents, among others. in Oslo School for a Long Time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e402	I recognise the great victor of the Christian People's Party when they got a pass on the teaching norm in the budget negotiations last autumn, but we pointed out some challenges at the time. I am very pleased that the students in Oslo, especially when the students in Oslo West, will have increased teacher density with the Christian People's Party's proposals, but unfortunately it is not that it will happen all over the country, because in many parts of the country the teacher coverage is so good that they will not be given extra resources. The quality of the results shows that there are some of the schools and some of the counties that have the lowest teacher's density that do the best. There are some challenges to the teaching norm, but we're going to follow it up, and we're going through the decisions we've made. We're going to follow this up and hope that we can have a good dialogue with the Christian People's Party to get the best possible teacher's density in school, so that all students have the opportunity to get up, and that we get a higher quality in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e409	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e414	I would like to begin by welcoming the Left into government cooperation. It was a wise and natural decision. We stand stronger together, and our three parties have much in common – first and foremost the belief in the individual, the personal freedom and the good community that arises in a free and liberal society. We believe that the state is best when it ensures a good framework for individuals and businesses to develop their creativity and willingness to realize the ideas that will pay for tomorrow's welfare society. Both the Right Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party have their differences, but what we have in common is much stronger than what separates us. That is why I believe that we will have good and constructive cooperation in the future. For the Progress Party, one of the most important achievements of the government expansion is that we now have our own senior minister, who is also responsible for public health. That's what the Progress Party has been working for too long. We believe that the country's older people, who have contributed to the level of well-being we enjoy today, deserve their own minister who focuses on their needs and ensures our elderly the security they deserve. Since the government change in 2013, taxes and charges have been reduced by 24 billion. kr, and we're still going to decrease the tax rate. One of our priorities is to cut property tax. This is a fundamental unsocial and unfair taxation of people's homes. The new government platform agrees to reduce the maximum property tax on dwellings and recreational dwellings and introduces a ceiling on the valuation of properties. The aim is for all to receive lower property taxes in the coming years. The so-called machine tax, a property tax that affected production equipment in the companies, was removed from the budget for 2018, and already we can see a positive impact on the investment will in the districts. As of 2019, municipalities that introduce property taxes can only collect one per million in the first year – a halve from the previous – and there are also restrictions on how much municipalities can increase the tax rate by each year. On the tax side, I will also give a small reward to the opposition parties. In its alternative budget for 2018, both the Labour Party and the Centre Party retain most of the tax reliefs granted since 2013. The working party will now only increase the taxes by 8 billion. kr, while the central part is nurturing 6 billion. kr. Although they do not say it directly, this is a clear recognition that the Right Party government has done so on the tax side, has been necessary and correct. At the same time, it shows that we've already set lasting tracks, we've moved the other parties in our direction. By lowering taxes to a more appropriate level, we stimulate individuals to increase labour input and enterprises to increase investment in new jobs. An economy of growth generates increased tax revenue to the community. Our welfare society is completely dependent on stable and predictable incomes. At the same time, it depends on the use of welfare services not becoming excessive. There has to be a balance between what comes in and what goes out. A strict and responsible immigration policy shall be pursued and reinforced, but also with an increased focus on integration. All residents of Norway must be given the opportunity to use their competences, resources, for the benefit of themselves and society. We must be even more successful with integration and more people must be included in the labour market. Economic growth and an efficient and high-resource economy are essential to maintain the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare society. I am therefore pleased that Norway is on the right track. Most indicators now show that the Norwegian economy is in marked improvement. Unemployment is falling, employment is increasing, and the cyclical survey shows that optimism is back in Norwegian industry. The rise is most marked in the south and west, areas that were hit most by the oil price drop. Policies work. This gives a good starting point for government cooperation: a Norway in progress, a Norway with optimism, and with this starting point we together – the Left, Right and Advance Party – will bring out the best in us, play each other good and make Norway an even better country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e440	If you live in Norway, you must become part of Norway. In some immigrant environments, we see an unculture with attitudes and actions that we cannot accept in a modern society. This is why the Labour Party has promoted a number of proposals to combat social control and honorary violence. For the Workers' Party, this is about the struggle for freedom, democracy and equality – values that should apply to us all in Norway, regardless of the kind of culture we come from, and which religion we belong to. We have tabled 22 proposals in Stortinget. I'll mention two of them. One is something police and the shameless girls have called for, namely a clearer law: arranged marriages where mental pressure is inside the picture must be punished. The second is a ban on sibling childhood in order to combat social control. I have experienced that the Right and Left are unclear in these questions. I would therefore like to ask the Progress Party whether they support the proposal for a new law on arranged marriages, as the shameless girls and the police want, and a ban on marriages between siblings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e449	The representative referred to by proposals promoted by the Workers' Party contains very good Progress Party policy. It is quite clear that we are concerned with the same conditions as pointed out by the Workers' Party. We believe that we need to live in Norway and work in Norwegian society, we need to follow the rules established in Norway. If you don't accept it, it has to have some consequences. So yes, at the starting point, it's right to tighten up marriages between siblings and other relationships that we can't accept in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e454	The Labour Party wants a strict and fair immigration policy. Of course, when we want to ban siblings, it's about the health consequences of this, but also about Norwegian youth being forced to marry cousins and cousins to get family members living abroad to come to Norway. It's unacceptable. In fact, a consequence of what we are proposing will be a stricter family immigration policy, that it will be prohibited by the marriage law, and thus the conditions for family reunification will lapse. It's a proper and necessary tightening. And just to make it clear that this is a big deal, because it is unclear what the government at large, that is, the Left and Right, thinks: will the Progress Party guarantee that they will not give up the police and the shameless girls at the negotiating table with the Left and Right – in order to ensure a ban on sibling childhood?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e461	If the representative reads the government statement carefully, he will see that there have been some restrictions, among other things. in the case of family reunification, because it is a growing challenge. What has come from immigrants in recent years has been largely through family reunions. So I want to return that call to the Workers' Party – to support the proposals that come from the government, which will help to tighten up, to control the family reunification, and to check out that the reunifications that take place are legal and regulatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e468	The migration crisis in 2015 showed the vulnerability of Europe. Without the Turkey agreement, the crisis would continue into 2016 and 2017, but the migration pressure is there. Border control is essential. In Sweden, social democrats have been tightening up immigration policy after many years of right-wing rule. We know that what is happening around us now could also affect the asylum flow to Norway. So we don't have to stand out. Now we have made a concrete proposal to tighten up family immigration policy. The government platform is unclear. The rhetoric is tough, but the measures are unclear. As a journalist in Minerva writes, refugee policy is being liberalised with a new government. Can the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party guarantee that there will be no liberalisation in the immigration field with the Left in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e477	I am dealing with what is stated in the government statement, which is quite clear. The reason for this is that the restrictive immigration policy we have been pursuing for some years now – thanks to the success of the Progress Party and the Right in its proposals for tightening up – is to be continued. It shall also be further reinforced in several areas, but in particular in the case of family reunification. So I don't think the representative has any reason to fear that there will be a more liberal immigration policy. Rather on the contrary. But it is also important that we have to focus on integration at the same time, and then we have to ensure that those who receive a residence permit in Norway are included, among others. working life and in Norwegian society. Then there must also be clear rules of play for what we can accept in our society, and that is what we are going to establish.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e485	The representative Limi spent a good part of his contribution at the tax and tax level. He also said, ‘We will continue to reduce the level of taxation.’ [[...]] He said nothing about taxes, and that may not be so strange, because while there have been extensive tax reliefs for those who have most of the time, there have been significant tax increases for people most: almost 7 billion. kr in total during that period the Progress Party has been in government and had the Minister of Finance. In the Jeløya platform, an additional increase in charges is signalled, related to travel, public transport, culture and fuel. That is why I would like to ask the representative of the party for fees increases for people most about how much the fees are going to increase further in this period, and who needs to prepare for a fee increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e496	Fortunately, that is not right, as the representative Gielsvik highlights from the government platform – rather on the contrary. It is quite clear that, to the extent that there are tax increases in individual areas, it must be exchanged against equivalent tax relief or tax relief for those affected. That is the policy we have been pursuing for four years. There are overall tax reductions of 24 billion. kr. Yes, some taxes have increased, some taxes have been paid, especially on the green side, but at the same time we have managed to exchange them for tax relief and other tax relief for those who have been affected. So I think we've managed to balance this in a good way, and we've used the charges in a positive way, also to influence people's behavior. In particular, we see this in the transport sector and in the car lists, where the carrot principle, by reducing car charges and applying the one-off charge, has led to more and more now choosing environmentally friendly low-emission cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e503	One has balanced it in such a way that one has increased the total fees during the period in which the Progress Party has been in government and has had the Minister of Finance, by nearly 7 billion. Net kr. The representative Limi himself, as a fiscal spokesperson, has had the honour of having been with and negotiated this earlier. In the first budget with him as the parliamentary leader, the fees – only in that budget – increased by 2.7 billion. kr. One thing is that the fees are increasing, another thing is the unpredictableness that lies in this. There will be new charges on the table without them being investigated, and without any warning. One got a huge increase in the fees on sugar and chocolate, and one got an airline passenger fee, such as. contributed to the closure of Rygge Airport. Therefore, my question is: When can a higher predictability of the Progress Party be expected in terms of what fees will be increased in the future, so that industry and consumers can also know it and not get it as a surprise a late November evening before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e510	The Progress Party is quite clear that we do not want tax increases, rather on the contrary. The objective of the Government Platform is to maintain the level of taxation. There is no need to increase the charges, with the exception of the explicit mention of the CO 2 tax, but it should be compensated for those affected. So it's balanced. It is true that taxes and tax increases have been introduced into the budgetary agreements we have entered into in the Stortinget. At the same time, we have tried to switch it against corresponding reductions in income taxes. So I still believe that it's a good balance, and all the information I have, suggests that the voters are very satisfied with the way the Progress Party has handled this in government so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e520	It's very popular to call a spade a day, and that's what I'm going to do. The greatest threat to well-being and to what we're going to have together is rich companies and people who care about the honest income and work of ordinary workers. They give the bluff in the community, and the Advance Party gives them sadly support. While ordinary people have received NOK 10 a day in tax bills, the richest have received NOK 3 000 – 4000 – the party for the 1,600 richest in the country, you might call it. Greed is boundless. There is a lot of creativity in cheating — in employment, financial crime, tax evasion. The Progress Party will not withdraw the Oil Fund from tax havens. But then the question is, Does the Progress Party recognise that economic crime, tax planning, labour crime and tax evasion are the greatest threat to the community and well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e529	I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that international tax planning and tax evasion are a huge challenge. That is why the government has also made a great deal of effort to get international rules, because this is not a challenge we can solve in Norway. We have to have international rules, because very often we talk about global companies. And we're on it. Otherwise, I would say that the greed to which it is referred is probably fairly evenly distributed in society, unfortunately. We must not get there that we suspect anyone who makes money, who runs companies and invests and also creates jobs, to be greedy. There's a lot of serious actors out there, actors we're totally dependent on. Therefore, it is so important that we take into account their needs, too, by reducing the level of taxation, by simplifying tax arrangements, which also make tax planning less lucrative. So this has a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e536	I really don't think I got any specific answer. When the government and the Advance Party say that there are some threats to well-being, you always start by dividing the sick and the unemployed or between the poor and the destitute. Then that's where the distribution struggle has to stand. But the distribution struggle must therefore stand between poor and rich if it is to be fair, and there is now a need for a power cap, a ruthless fight against tax havens, tax planning, tax crime – both globally and in Norway. You have to do this, for example. start by withdrawing the oil fund from the tax havens, which are the basis for this international economy to continue. I have not heard a single measure from the government now that is concrete in this area. And I didn't get any answers as to whether the Progress Party recognizes that it is not the unemployed and disabled who are the greatest threat to our well-being in the future, and that those costs do not increase, but that it is this type of international and national crime that threatens us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e543	The reason why I do not respond specifically to the questions is that I do not fully agree with the premises, although there are some challenges – which we will take very seriously, and which we take seriously – to establish rules of play both in Norway and internationally. I don't think unemployment or disability is the greatest threat to well-being. What challenges our welfare society the most is that we still have too many on the outside of the world of work. That's the biggest challenge we have. We need to include more, so that we get more people to help maintain the welfare society that we have established in Norway. That challenge lies there, and we have to do something about it. That's why it's so important that we not only be able to include those who are disabled or who have a health challenge, but also be able to include those who we give residence, i.e. refugees who are staying in Norway, so that everyone can contribute and use their competences at different levels in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e550	The most important thing we can do to reduce inequality in society is to invest in families. Policies that allow parents to have time with their children are a great asset. We know that alienation is a growing problem in the Norwegian community, and I think many people would have escaped if we had invested more strongly in the families. The Christian People's Party is the guarantor of strong, good and flexible family arrangements, a flexibility that also gives children's families freedom of choice. Cash support is, of course, such a system that gives families with children freedom of choice. This is something which has also been supported by the Progress Party, and this has also been the policy of the Progress Party. But in the January 24 issue, the representative of the Progress Party Roy Steffensen says that the cash support is in its final period, because we can no longer afford it. Is it true that the Progress Party is for freedom of choice, just not for the families of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e557	No, I'm afraid it's not. I do not know how good the representative Steffensen is to predict the future, but we still have the cash support. It is quite right that the Progress Party has been very much in favour of cash support because it has been part of what we want to ensure for the families of children freedom of choice. But then, unfortunately, as society has changed, we also see some unfortunate aspects of cash support, not least in terms of integration. Here I believe that we need to look up the cash support against all the other measures we are taking to secure families with children, especially on the kindergarten side: full child care coverage, free core time, lower self-esteem for parents who have medium or low incomes. All of this plays together. What we need to ensure is that we do not have schemes that produce adverse effects. Cash support may be negative in integrating those who are allowed to stay and come to Norway from outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e564	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e570	Let me also begin by congratulating the Left, the Advance Party and the Right on having formed a government. The centre party should be a tough and clear opposition and contribute to many good debates in this Chamber. In Norwegian parliamentary history, there is a term called hen-elected parliamentarianism. It denotes a thought that marginalized the Storting in the post-war period, when the Workers' Party had a pure majority. Today, we seem to have received the Solberg parliamentaryism. The concept is far from mine – it was Harald Stanghelle who launched it in May last year – and solar parliamentarianism is particularly expressed in three ways. The first is that in the last period it was expressed by a tacit acceptance that a government party stands for one position in government, while the same party stands for a completely different view in Stortinget. In the previous period, this Progress Party was involved in a wide range of issues, including: social security settlement. During this period, the Left started its work in government by voting against its own government in immigration policy. The Prime Minister has confirmed that we can see it in several cases – that the Left in the Stortinge votes against and thus opposes its own government. Another important part of the solar parliamentarianism seems to be that one overnight makes decisions with great consequences for many people, because it was so important to one of the parties. This is how a government claiming to be in favour of nutritionism chooses to ban an entire industry – as the Prime Minister said on the Dayrevy, because it was so important for the Left. This is how the government chooses to introduce a teaching norm without knowing what consequences it can have for teaching shortages and centralisation of teaching powers – because it was so important for the Christian People's Party. Even today, the representative of Greece was unable to stand up and defend the teaching norm that is now the government’s norm. One consequence of this part of the solstberg parliamentarianism is that the policy ‘outsources’ of the party that considers the matter to be a case for itself, while no one takes responsibility for the whole. It may seem that taking responsibility for a whole, which was at least a government's most important task until 2013, has now become a kind of pickleek in which the parties are fleeing from the overall responsibility that one necessarily must have when entering into a political compromise. One of the last elements of the solstice parliamentarianism is the way a person puts himself in a position to avoid taking responsibility for the rhetoric that some members of the government have committed themselves to. Then one says, "I wouldn't have used that word." Or one says, it's now more important to discuss the matter than all the words. In this way, for example: State Councillor Listhaug will continue a rhetoric that is both divisive and unwise, without anyone else in the government taking responsibility for it. This solar parliamentarianism is moving boundaries in Norwegian politics. As Harald Stanghelle said in his article last year: «The loyalty and obligations of a government party have been devalued.» He further asks in his article: «What importance does this have to do with the authority of the Prime Minister? And what does the establishment of such a practice mean for the credibility that a government should have?" For my own part, I only note that solar parliamentarianism promotes a lack of overall governance. And most importantly, it provides poor solutions to important things that mean a lot to people. The Government declaration is in many ways a confirmation that the blue-blue policy continues. Many of the reforms that this government launched in the previous period were structural changes that were about to centralise. But the same reforms were also about power and power and about a kind of public governance where the system trumps the individual, where the systems become more important than humans. I said in the throne debate last fall, and will repeat today, that one of the most important debates Stortinget is facing the next four years, is which public sector we are going to have. Norway has a large number of employees in the public sector who want to do their job properly but who are currently being detailed and exposed to a lot of reporting work. The solution to this situation is not competitive outsourcing and tendering regimes. The solution is a renewal of the public sector where employees are given authority and confidence to do a good job, and where those using public services feel that they are both seen and heard. The Right Party and the Advance Party did in the previous period, almost to go to a targeted ideological attack on the public sector, both by a continuous centralisation in many areas and by encouraging even more counting edges, reporting, even more directorates, even more advice and selection. With that curtain, the Government Declaration on ‘implementing measures to ensure a level playing field between the public and private sectors’ is an ominous signal. It sounds so amissable, but it's an ominous signal. This is to be confused, like what ESA and the government's own Hjelmeng committee want. Thus, with the EEA as a breaking rod, the government should try to ensure that the public service offer is weakened. This may mean that non-statutory municipal activities will compete with private – cultural schools, sports facilities, cinema, municipal swimming pool, to name a few. In that case, they must be distinguished as their own legal entities, be subject to tax, be subject to market returns and a whole range of red tape and costs. For many of the smaller municipalities, this would, of course, be an impossibility, so, in addition to being competitive and privatising, it would also mean that a lot of public culture and leisure activities could be heavily centralised. The centre party shall fight to ensure that we continue to have a welfare society in which municipalities and counties are given room and opportunity to offer activity and action to their inhabitants without pre-requiring that type of tender and outsourcing. In the presentation of the Government Declaration, the Prime Minister tried to neutralise the debate on centralisation. I think maybe that's what's right-wing strategy for the time being. She managed to refer to the whole of North Norway as a district when she pointed to the possibilities that lay in that part of the country. District policy is probably a bit more fine-tuning than it was, also in North Norway, but it is true that there are many and large opportunities for value creation in each region of Norway. Privates are engaged in activity and value creation every day, but it must be realised, private and public sectors must also be well connected, and the public sector must function equally well throughout Norway, in both small and large municipalities. A few days ago, I received an enquiry from a desperate company that carries out analyses of water, food and environmental samples. That type of sample is fresh and the analyses must start quickly. However, the changes in the Post Norway now mean that they can no longer receive the tests quickly enough — a clear example that the way in which the government is now destroying the social mission of the Post has a direct and negative impact on private value creation in District Norway. It has to be balanced at all. Private value creation depends entirely on a well-functioning public sector. Someone's trying to talk about district policy as a special interest, but it's not. It's about a balanced society that gives room for different choices, a larger whole that accommodates diversity. We are facing a weakened government. Three parties which, during the previous period, had a majority shall now cooperate in a minority. The majority is lost in the choice we have left behind. It offers great possibilities for permeability for the different parties in cases in Stortinget. The centre lot shall continue to work to ensure that all parts of this country are viewed and valued. We're going to work to reduce the differences between people, both geographically and socially. We're going to work to ensure that the systems never get so big that people get small and forget. We should have confidence in those who work in the public sector, not in detail. We're going to get respect for our natural resources and for those who produce values based on them. I feel confident that many of the state councils will gradually complain about big business, and they must be allowed to do so. The Prime Minister would also like a cross-cutting majority to be avoided. But that is not how ordinary parliamentaryism works. There are the issues that determine. It is the government that has to comply with the decision of the Grand Duchy and of the majority. It's every minority government's lot, and they can't make their minority the responsibility of the Storting. The new composition of the Storting will give us an exciting time with many opportunities on behalf of important matters. One thing is certain: the centre party should be ready to seize the possibilities. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e620	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e627	The extended government has presented a government platform, a declaration that follows on from the civil cooperation of the last four years and points towards continued development in line with recent years in the area of local economy, transport and other important areas. Arnstad's colleague and party leader call this to the worst in each other. It'll be on his account. As for reality, I'll ask you a few questions: For the municipal sector, the result for the last year we have final data from, 2016, is 4 pst. as a whole. Revenue in the sector increased by 55 billion. kr from 2013 to 2016, in substance from increased income taxes and state transfers. How much higher is this result than when the Senter Party had the municipal minister? If the number is not available on the standing foot: has it gone in the right direction, i.e. with better results, or in the wrong direction with worse results?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e634	It is clear that when a user uses as much oil money as this government has done, it also drips a little in the municipal sector. The centre party has not really complained about the framework of the municipal sector in recent years. What we have pointed out first of all is that the distribution of income to the local government sector has gradually become very unfair. Very many district municipalities have had a very negative impact on the distribution of income, while the large cities are taking more and more of the money. In my own country, among other things, almost all the municipalities – in the old Nord-Trøndelag – have had reduced incomes and thus reduced opportunities to offer welfare services to their inhabitants. That money has gone either to Oslo, Bærum, Asker or Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e639	I record that in terms of inequality, the direction that is the problem, that where there was a big inequality in the past, there is now less inequality between municipalities – that it is a problem because you want to keep the old inequality. But let me move on to another sector where the representative Arnstad has great experience. The current budget for the transport sector is about 50 pst. higher than when the Central Party had the Minister for Transport. Here, too, I would like to ask: has it gone in the right direction or in the wrong direction with that budget? Doesn't that point – as I see it at least – in the right direction for the time being also?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e646	I must first be allowed to comment a little further on the municipal income. The government has in a way broken up and halved the basic subsidy. It actually warned the Prime Minister of today against ten years ago — or a little more than ten years ago — because it would be a grip that went beyond the ability to provide equivalent services to all citizens of a municipality, regardless of whether it was small or large. It is precisely the grip that is perhaps the most serious one has taken in terms of the distribution of income to the municipalities. As far as transport policy is concerned, we are largely pleased that the government is following up the national transport plan that we adopted in 2013 and that they are continuing their efforts in 2017. We think that's good. It is a shame that in some districts they choose to deprioritize road projects or train projects, for example: The largest public transport project in the trombone, which was suddenly buried before the budget in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e653	I then record that, in terms of both the transport sector and the municipal sector, the economic results are really moving in the right direction. The sitting government has also reduced the billing and red tape costs for people and businesses by 15 billion. kr until now, and the ambition of the new government statement is another 10 billion. kr. Maybe it went in the right direction too?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e658	Any government that has had the opportunity to spend almost 100 billion dollars. kr in fresh oil money, can be spread to both the one and the other. The government has. Some of that makes sense, a lot of that has also been unreasonable. The way in which you have chosen to centralize, and also gradually decomposed and fragmented district policy, is one of the major problems of this government. There is no doubt that they have spent a lot of money on those who already have a lot of money. They have also chosen little to bet on getting activity all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e663	My question was whether it was not good to have reduced red tape and red tape costs for people and businesses by 15 billion. kr so far, and with an ambition of another 10 billion. kr. That's what you chose not to answer. But I'd like to ask the question again: isn't that good?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e668	This government has not reduced red tape, it has not reduced directorate, it has not reduced the number of state-owned bureaucrats in this country, it has not reduced the number of councils and samples — on the contrary, there is an actual increase in bureaucracy. What one claims is a reduction of bureaucracy at local level — city halls and councillors — is actually stripping many of the small municipalities for important welfare services and important measures for the population of these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e673	In my first four months at Stortinget, I have noticed all the proposals from the Central Party where there is to be a fight for many reforms and decisions for which the government has been given a majority in Stortinget in the last four years. The left believes that we need to reform to make and improve more efficient. In this way, the rail reform, the road reform with New Roads, the reform of free treatment choices, the municipal reform, the regional reform, the reform of the neighbourhood policy, the reform of university and higher education structures are important reforms, and not least an integration reform, which the Jeløya platform also thrusts out. Does the representative Marit Arnstad think that we do not need any reforms in the public sector? And is it any pleasure to trace that such reforms can provide over time the necessary improvements that can provide good welfare across the country, or will the answer to all the reforms of the Central Party also in the future be that this is centralisation – and thus rematch?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e681	One must, in the opinion of the Centre Party, carry out reforms, but the reforms must, of course, move in the right direction, and centralisation is not the right direction. Unfortunately, very many of the reforms proposed by the government and supported by the Left are purely centralising reforms. 120 offices have been closed in the last four years. Half of the country's tax offices are closed. Forced mergers of municipalities have been carried out without any new tasks being assigned to the municipalities. And the railway reform solves nothing – it's not one train that goes more precisely, it's not going to be one meter further railing because we're implementing a railway reform like, among other things. deprives railway workers of the pension entitlements they have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e686	Marit Arnstad claims in his speech today that the Left has already broken with the government's policy in a vote in the Stortinget. Does Arnstad see that the Left's position in the particular case to which it was then referred was determined long before the formation of the government – and not least discussed in the committee? Then my question is, had the Center Party come to turn in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e691	I see that the matter was raised before the government platform itself was presented, but I also see that the practice of a break-out in the case of something being dealt with in Stortinget, when you have come to government, is something completely new. The Prime Minister opened that there may be several settings where the Left will vote against its own government. It's going to be very interesting to see if it happens, because at least it's going to happen on a good and safe basis after the Left has entered the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e696	An overall increase has said that they have a target of reducing lifestyle diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. The same thing has been said by the World Health Organization. The center party has a wise lady named Kjersti Toppe. She told Nettavisen in 2010 that she wanted to increase the sugar charge considerably. The same lady said the following to the Evening Post in 2013: «Sp has worked to apply the dietary policy, either with tax exemptions on healthy goods [[...]] Kjersti Toppe said the same thing to VG in March 2016. So my question to the Center Party is, when will Kjersti Toppe be allowed to express public health policy to the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e708	I think Kjersti Toppe is doing an excellent job of expressing the Central Party's policy both in the field of health and in the field of public health. I have to say I appreciate very much the way she marks the center part, in that field. Then I agree to the principle that unhealthy things should possibly be taxed higher than healthy things, but then we have to be sure that it is actually the unhealthy things that are taxed. If the representative of Bollestad refers to the sugar charge, it is pointless. Nugetti, who I have fought to keep away from my son in all his growth, is not subject to a charge after the sugar charge, while sugar-free Dent is. So, if the Christian People's Party wants to have a proper debate on public health, the measures must be precise, not influenced by the fact that there are actually measures to keep the budgetary balance up late at night in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e715	Then I hope that the representative Toppe also thought through exactly what Arnstad said, more precisely. This can be agreed by the Christian People's Party, but one suggested this in 2010, in 2013 and 2016. Then the Senterpartie must show how they intend to get that sugar charge so specific, if it is not possible when one increases the sugar charge now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e720	I think that we, both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, can have the opportunity to sit together and look at some of those kinds of problems in the future, both in terms of unhealthy foods and in terms of alcohol and tobacco, and in terms of the marketing of some of those products. I think we're going to have a lot of opportunities to sit down and look at measures that actually work, that are precise, that are targeted, and that are not just purely financial, budgetary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e725	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e730	Norway and the world face two major and fundamental challenges: great inequality and climate crisis. In meeting these challenges, the government chooses to shoulder its debt with the richest and oil industry. Globally, the richest percent now owns as much as half of the earth's population. It's deeply unfair. We should all be concerned about how this turns out in distrust of democracy, disintegration of society and the emergence of authoritarian forces. Norway is one of the countries with the least differences. Wise political choices have built a safe working life, common well-being and education and a redistributive tax system. But also here we see that the distance between those that have the most, and those that have the least, is increasing. The 10 per cent wealthiest households in Norway own over half of all wealth, while those who earn least have barely experienced wage increases in recent years. The number of young people growing up in poverty in Norway has increased to 101,300. 8 000 people in their 20s have fallen out of work only in the last few months. In meeting this, the government parties warn that they will continue to pursue exactly the policy that has led to an increase in disparities in Europe and the United States – tax cuts to the richest, cut welfare, opening up unsafe, temporary jobs and privatisation of public services. Under the heading «Sustainable welfare society», the government is pushing older and immigrants forward in its so-called welfare state concern, rather than presenting a policy such as redistribution, closing the gaps in the tax system and getting more people working. When I read through the government statement, I see a document full of paradoxes. The government says that they will reduce poverty, but the platform does not include measures to combat poverty, only poverty reduction and more needs testing. Instead of equalizing the differences and making sure that those who have the least get more living, the government will ease the situation for those who have the worst. That's good, but it doesn't solve the situation. And with more testing of needs, the government is at risk of locking people into poverty. The Prime Minister spoke yesterday about the so-called potential country, where children growing up in low-income families have the same opportunities as others. The problem is that this is just wishful thinking. Economic differences have everything to say about what opportunities you get later in life. The relationship between the parent’s income and the adult’s own income. If you come from a poor family, you have a far greater chance of being poor as an adult. In Norway, too, social mobility is falling. In order for everyone to have equal opportunities, we have to reduce the economic differences. This government is going the other way. Working life is changing – with automation and robotics. While government parties are concerned that the increase in productivity can cause labour to be freed for other purposes, only a few weeks have passed since the Prime Minister stood at the NHO's Annual Conference and had the courage to express scepticism to shorter working days. It's not related. That jobs become redundant because of technology is nothing new. The big question is how best to prepare for this development and make sure that it is enjoyed as much as possible. It is not by doing what the government wants, namely cutting the tax to those who have the most from before, selling out public activities, weakening the employment environment law and cutting welfare. It is by ensuring that also those who own the technology have to pay taxes, that companies owned by the community also manage the values of the future, that people in work have the security and ability to change and renew their skills, and by keeping the differences low by providing everyone with access to good universal welfare services. The government also writes: ‘Good public health is created by preventing where one can and can repair where one has to.’ But finding traces of actual prevention policies is not easy. We know that children and young people learn better, get better health and thrive better with physical activity and healthy food. But the government platform does not mention school food or physical activity, and the absence of the newly adopted teaching norm highlights us both in the declaration and in the submissions of the Prime Minister. While more and more people now call for warning about teaching shortages and that students are falling away, the government will introduce more testing and more paperwork in school everyday life. The government's actions will increase the challenges. One place where the overall message and action are more consistent is in environmental policy. Government lots open the environmental chapter by identifying: ‘Climate changes, the spread of pollutants and the loss of natural diversity are the main environmental challenges of our time’. So the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left have agreed that the environmental challenges of our time are the greatest environmental challenges. This should be unnecessary, but environmental challenges are not just a challenge for the environment. If ecosystems fail, we not only lose sweet polar bears that cling to melting iceflakes – no, then we also lose our very basis of life. And the hubro, which our prime minister once made fun of because she thought it stopped important expansion projects, or the eyestick, which nobody cares about, has crucial roles. Nature is a card house where all the cards depend on each other. I'm optimistic on behalf of the world and the environment. Elfs now go along our coast – perhaps gradually with swells – new types of batteries, with increased capacity and lifetime, develop, and solar power competes for fossil energy in price and installation. When I read this platform, I see a government that has no ambition to make Norway ready to meet the new reality. In meeting falling global demand for oil and gas, the government's response is that we should continue as before. Despite this, the platform embellishes itself with formulations on climate risk. Among other things, it says that they will demand that companies make their climate risk visible in their development plans on Norwegian pedestal. But what it means in practice is not good to say when they reject the issue completely in connection with the development of the Castberg field in the Barents Sea. If it is not relevant for that field, where is it relevant then? Growth is now taking place, not in fossil energy, but in renewable energy, technology and zero-emission solutions. If we are to succeed in financing school, kindergarten and care for the elderly in the future, we must succeed in the transition from an oil economy to an climate economy. We in Norway themselves must drive this development forward and not finally be forced to make the tough choices. Norway needs leadership that gets everyone through the transition we're facing, that benefits, that creates green growth, that works for the many and not for the few. The government is drawing pretty goals, but the measures are going in the opposite direction. This government is going to pursue a policy of increasing disparities and continuing oil dependence, but there are fortunately points of light – this government does not have a majority in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e782	Unlike the opposition, the government parties and the Christian People's Party are committed to lowering the threshold, so that ordinary people get into the housing market. We have made important changes on the supply side of the housing market, which has made building homes faster, easier and cheaper. The result is that it is the highest start of residential construction in several decades. On 12 December last year, the representative, Mr Kaski, said about housing prices: ‘it is not a price reduction measure for SV’. SV was opposed to simplifying the construction regulations, which reduce the construction costs by up to several hundred thousand dollars. As usual, SV’s answer to most problems is that you have to take more of ordinary people’s money, and that’s also the solution in the housing market. My question to SV is: How can SV expect more young people to get into the housing market, when there are higher construction costs, higher housing prices and higher taxes for most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e794	It is on this government's guard that the price gap that has been in the housing market over the last few years has really been seen. There has been a rather dramatic development, where prices have risen rapidly and where one has arranged for a yojo situation in the housing market. It is not beneficial for people most to experience the huge fluctuations that have occurred in the housing market. We see a lot of speculation in the housing market, and not least the enormously high level of indebtedness, which should worry the government parties enormously. There's a very large proportion of people who own housing today, who say they won't tolerate an interest rate increase, which we, after all, have to prepare for. If the government had been concerned with lowering the threshold, so that more young people could get in without putting themselves in dramatic debt, and without the housing market reinforcing the differences in Norway, it could have been to facilitate that the House Bank could also provide start-up loans to more of those who have the ability to pay but who are unable to obtain loans to enter the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e803	I agree that we need to take action on both the supply and demand side just to take care of the self-loathing democracy that we have in Norway. All 80 pst. of us owns a dwelling that is owned by those who live there themselves. The difference between Right and SV is that an active housing policy for SV is more government governance and increased taxes for people. An active housing policy for me would rather be to provide for digitisation and anti-speeching measures – as is also stated in the government statement – and to continue to simplify the legislation. I could not hear that the representative Kaski actually answered the question about this with increased housing tax for most people. The problem with that proposal is that it does not work. SV took over the management of Oslo a few years ago and increased the housing tax. The result was that housing prices increased by 20 pst. Every year for two years. My question to Kaski is: how high should the tax be for people who own housing in the district, to bring down the prices in the press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e812	The fact that prices have increased in Oslo is largely due to the speculation in the housing market today, and the government has no answer to that. So it's not like we don't have a government that says completely 'hands off'. When an indictor of government governance, this government has made special demands on loans in Oslo. So you're in government control here. Nor is it the construction costs that primarily drive the price increase, which is speculation. We have a housing market where we have arranged to a large extent that it is those who own the most expensive and most expensive dwellings that have received the most tax relief. We need to be able to ensure more stability in the housing market. Housing tax is part of that. It is also worth adding that the Oslo City Council has arranged for the construction of several dwellings in Oslo. I have a great hope that the dwellings that we are building now will also be dwellings that will last in the future. Then I would strongly warn against lowering the requirements, as this government has done, which means that those who have the worst of advice [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e821	Time's up. Mari Holm Lønseth – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e826	For the government, it's important that it's easy for people to buy housing no. 1, and it should be more difficult for speculators to buy housing no. 2 and No 3rd@item: inlistbox This is one of the reasons why changes were made to the mortgage regulation, which we see has had an effect. It has had a cooling effect, especially in Oslo, and we see that there are fewer investors buying housing. It makes it easier for ordinary people to get into the housing market. Another thing that is important in housing policy in the years to come, I think, is housing social work. That's exactly why the government statement uses as much space for housing social work as you do. I believe that one of the most important things we can do is to make sure that also several disadvantaged people have the opportunity to own their own home. Therefore, the government has announced that it will invest more in rental-to-own projects in the years to come. But then we are promised that we have local politicians who are committed to taking this action seriously. If you look at the Right-steered Drama, you do it very well in terms of rent-to-own projects, but if you look at Oslo, you don't do it as well there. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]] My question to SV is: what do you want to do to improve rental-to-own projects? [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e833	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e838	This is where we hear that we agree. It is said that there should be measures that primarily affect those who are involved in speculation. All right, let's go! So will we. When we propose changes in the housing tax, it is about hitting them with the most expensive dwellings and those with the most dwellings, not ordinary people. There are not ordinary people who have the greatest burden on housing taxes today. On the contrary, it is those who are left with the largest dwellings, and those who have the most, who have to pay house taxes with the SV's proposal, and it helps to dampen the fluctuations in the housing market. It's great that the government will bet on rent-to-own. Let's go, let's go, Let's go, let's go, let's go, Don't blame others! In Oslo, residential social measures are very good. The representative would like to join a round and a little study trip to look at it. I'm sure we can get a good cooperation on getting rental-to-owners in place. That's the big and broad political consensus about, so here we can find together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e845	The representative Kaski mentioned the light point. I remember very well that audun Lysbakken a few years ago called Swedish immigration policy a light in Europe. In Sweden, over 131 people have been shot and killed in the Swedish Civil War in recent years, and there is talk of putting in the military against their own people. Police have lost control in several areas, and people feel simply insecure. Only in 2017 more than 40 people died, and 135 people were injured in more than 300 shooting episodes. Is SV still exemplary in Sweden's immigration policy and should Norway be inspired by it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e852	I think that Norway's immigration policy today, that we accept so few people on the run, is a shame. We should accept more who are on the run. Sweden has, and yes, we should, too. What Sweden has not achieved to such an extent is integration policy. To that I would say that today we have a government that seems to be completely uninterested in what is successful integration policy, which is not listening to those who are working on it, who are not willing to ensure that those who come here, and those who have been here for a while, are integrated. But we should remember that there has been a success story in Norway, so let's build on it. It's about language training, about getting people out of work, about the housing policy that we discussed instead, has been successful. I live on the Weißvet in the Groruddalen, and there have been success in many areas. But what I want to warn against is what we see happening now, with the police reform, that the police are being removed from the streets, where they need to be present, and that they do not know the local environments as well as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e859	The representative Kaski and SV formulated two major challenges: inequality and climate and environmental challenges. I share the challenges that SV draws up. The Declaration of Government has good answers to this. In terms of inequality, SV is talking about Difference Norway and the big differences that are developing. If you look at Nordic research -- it's being presented next week -- the differences are growing because we're getting more older and many more immigrants, and so it's fewer who have income-generating work. It creates differences, but it also creates a tax burden, to which SV adds up, if you want to tax the fewer and fewer who are at work. It's a challenge for the community. When it comes to climate and energy, SV can be a co-player. Gahr Støre mentioned in his article «climate», «energy» and «environment» zero times in 10 minutes. I guess there's no alternative for SV then to create a majority there. Can we count on SV in environmental policy at Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e869	Yes, one can count on SV in climate and environmental policy at Stortinget. We're going to work hard every day to bring forward proposals that cut emissions, drive them through and get a majority for them in the Stortinget. A government platform has been provided where one cannot even say how much we are going to cut emissions in Norway. It is difficult to find the concrete measures that will reduce emissions. But – for the most part – we've been used to that for the last four years. We have become well used to making proposals and getting an impact on them, for a more ambitious environmental policy. It is the opposition in the Storting that has been driving through the ambitious environmental policy that has been pursued in the last four years – not the government. We're going to keep doing that. To repeat myself: the government platform determines that we will continue as before when it comes to the oil and gas industry. We will continue to lock Norwegian economy and labour in an industry that does not have a future ahead. Then there are still tasks for SV in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e876	I hope that SV joins in on the big problems. Carbon capture is one of them, and there we have to get innovation and development that leads us to use the entire Norwegian base, which is a great opportunity for a carbon deposit. Denmark, our neighbouring country, is an example: they have established a climate law and set ambitious climate targets, but they have fewer than 10,000 electric cars. Electric car policy is stable until 2020. Norway reaches the objective of phasing out fossil fuels and using new renewable fuels, particularly in passenger transport. What does SV now see as short-term goals to trump this – to use another image on it – when SV has such ambitions? What objectives will SV contribute to, with a view to reducing emissions from passenger transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e885	We put forward before the election campaign a plan for how it is possible to cut 5 million. tonnes of CO 2 in Norway by 2021. It is an ambitious plan, with a wide range of concrete measures. Few of them – if any – can be found in this government platform, so we must promote them in the Stortinget and hope, of course, for the support of the Left for it, in order to cut emissions. It is interesting that the representative Kjenseth is bringing Denmark forward and their electric car policy. What is the difference between Norway and Denmark? It is true that Norway has initially had a charging system for cars that facilitates the provision of goods to electric cars and that electric cars can be exempted, while those on petrol and diesel still have charges. Denmark has not been able to do so, and therefore they have not been able to have an electric car bet. In addition, when Denmark charges the electric cars, as proposed by the Fremskritsparti-Registration in the State budget last autumn, the consequence is that Denmark’s electric car betting is completely thronged.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e895	Instead, there was a strange change of words between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The Labour Party would have a guarantee from the Progress Party that there would be no liberalisation of immigration policy now that the Left has joined the government. You almost started a race to be as strict as possible and as hard as possible. Even a proposal has been made in which it is believed that the prohibition of sibling childhood will prohibit forcibleness, as if coerciveness cannot be done with tremendousness or firmness or outside the family sphere. You also notice that you want to tighten up your lashes and get even more stringent. The question to SV is whether they support the new line from the Workers' Party, which is to be the hardest and most stringent in terms of immigration and integration, or whether SV intends to be more faithful to the line they have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e902	The SV will continue to believe that we need a more sophisticated, more liberal and more humane immigration policy than is the case with today's government. But it's interesting to tense the question back to the left, which has just entered the government with the Right and the Advance Party. I see that a new word – legal certainty – has been added to the government platform. It's going to be interesting to see what it will mean by real political change. The left has been critical of the policy pursued in this area of the Right and the Advance Party. It's going to be interesting to see if they get to an actual change. If I were the representative of Raja, I would be more concerned with the policy to be pursued in this field of government that they have just entered into, than with the internal relationship between SV and the Workers' Party in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e909	The government statement does not say much about the Biotechnology Act, but this is a question addressed by the Storting these days. It is pointed out in the Biotechnology Communication that foetal diagnostics can lead to a society where there is no room for everyone. The Christian People's Party believes that foetal diagnostics is good as long as it is looking for conditions that can be treated. For us, the challenge is to find properties and conditions that cannot be dealt with. Searching for trisomies and disabilities sends a very clear signal, and it also breaks with the ideal of a society where there is room for everyone. Christian People's Party and SV often stand together in the fight for equality and inclusion. How does SV relate to the fact that technology allows sorting and exclusion in a way that we have never imagined before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e916	Here we are concerned with very important and quite demanding political dilemmas, which we must discuss and deal with seriously in the Storting and in the SV in the future. There is no doubt that technology is now opening up some opportunities which, on the one hand, will be positive, good and better life for many, and which could contribute to increased equality, which the representative also had in mind, but which, on the other hand, can provide dilemmas relating to sorting societies and some ethical and moral questions. I think we're going to have and continue the restrictive line we've had, where the SV and the Christian People's Party have stood together in some of these questions. We're going into this process and the discussion with a lot of seriousness, because this is demanding and important questions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e923	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e928	Louder, greener, more social-liberal policies; the Left led to the move from the role of a constructive opposition and cooperation party to a government party to be clear and clear, and the result speaks for itself: Lofoten, Vesterålen, Senja, Jan Mayen, ice edge and Skagerrak will be free of oil business throughout the period an additional strengthening of an already very systematic and comprehensive commitment to technology development and research is in place, ensuring jobs through increased competitiveness of our industry in markets driven by green values for the most part drug reform in which drug users are primarily provided with help, not punishment inclusion skills to make it easier for more people to get work and get more integrated into the Norwegian community a basic attitude which, in the opening chapter of the declaration, states that ‘immigration is a source of new impulses and cultural exchanges. Variation contributes to innovation and creativity.’ For social liberals, freedom is a fundamental value, but it must be free, it must also be free from distress, poverty and inequality. Some of the most heartbreaking in the Norwegian welfare community in 2018 are certain that 80,000-90,000 children grow up in poverty. Therefore, it is unlikely that it is good to be able to determine that the targeted effort to fight child poverty, among other things. by introducing free core time into the nursery for all three-, four- and five-year-olds from low-income families, now extended to include the school leisure arrangements. For a social liberal and a world citizen, it is also good to be able to emphasise that Norway should take an even greater responsibility for people in other countries who are in need and need help, both through aid policy and refugee policy. In the government statement, the Left, Right and the Progress Party have gathered on a joint, superior project, sustainable well-being, which, for Left, is not least about the freedom of those who come after us. We have also gathered on six main challenges that show some of the strengths of cooperation that not only three, but four parties on the bourgeois, non-socialist side, have developed in the last four years: transform the Norwegian economy to create growth, new jobs and secure more bones to stand on meet Norway’s climate obligations create an inclusive working life ensure good and sustainable welfare arrangements; reducing poverty and outreach implement an integration lift If I complement the list of cultural and media policies and everything in the declaration that is good district policy, business policy, agricultural policy and the willingness to strengthen the municipalities and the new regions, it is easy for the Left to start the blue-green government cooperation with enthusiasm and pride. That makes us very clear that it's still a minority government. The great power lies – as it should and should – in the Stortinget. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party have developed close and trust-based cooperation in recent years – a cooperation The Left will do what we can to preserve and process, even though we have now chosen different roles in this process. I hope, and also believe, that the other opposition parties have a great interest in helping Norway to close down the challenges we have described, and to ensure that Norway becomes a winner both in terms of work, value creation and well-being in the future. Then it's not every day left goes into government with the Progress Party. In addition to the policy we have together chiseled out in the Government Declaration, the explanation of what many in the Left said and sincerely thought was improbable, but now is made possible, a combination of real will of the Advance Party to meet the Left, and three uncommonly good party leaders with great mutual trust developed over time. And without any reduction for Trine and Siv, there is little doubt that the Prime Minister must take a significant part in the era because the Left and the Advance Party – against all odds – have found themselves together. The way in which she has led the way, the experiments and the negotiations are not only political leadership of the most diverse class, but also leadership at the high level. The Declaration of Government is an excellent starting point. The job of implementing it is now starting – a job I and Left are getting us to grips with, and we're going to do what we can to make us close together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e987	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e992	I know the representative of Breivik quite well. We both come from the same state, we have cooperated and argued, and he has even beaten me in a wheelchair race at the Festplatz. I have great respect for Mr Breivik's analysis. After the election, the Left was halved in Ulvik, and in the West they have lost three representatives on the Stortinget. Then the representative Breivik pointed out in the nations that cooperation with the Progress Party was a possible explanation for this. But now it became as it turned out, and the old Breivik is not quite like the new one, and I need to get acquainted with the new left. I wonder which Left I want to meet in Stortinget in the future – I wonder if the whole Left is in government all the time. It didn't look like that when the first Stortings-Left did after the left came into government, it was to vote against the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1000	The representative will meet the same left as she has always met. And of course, there's a difference between being in position and being in opposition. We are in position to manage the role of the position and have a responsibility to implement the policy of the government, but of course without abandoning the policies of the Left, the programme of the Left and the fundamentals of the Left. The best proof that it is really well done is the government statement that we are now discussing – for which I have now done reasonably thorough care, with left-glasses on. There is no doubt that this is a government platform that will contribute to the country getting, as I said, a brighter, greener and more social-liberal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1005	I still have that doubt, but I hope that the Left in the future will be able to see through to questions about assistance and climate, and that is what I am going to say. But what happens if they don't? Has the representative Breivik been given the same white flag as the Progress Party? Will the Left, however, stand with the Government when they disagree, or will they seek the majority of the Grand Duchy against it? Has the Left decided whether the same rules apply to those of the Progress Party – the rules that allowed Siv Jensen as party leader to go out and encourage boycotts of the policy of receiving more refugees, on the basis of which the government had laid down? My question is, how free is Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1010	The future will show how the Left takes care of cooperation, but I would remind the representative that she is now challenging the oldest party in Norway, the party that founded parliamentaryism, and perhaps has the longest chance of perpetuating the principles of parliamentaryism. So I think we'll be able to manage the role that we're now putting in, in a courteous way, that the representative Christensen too can probably be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1015	Let me first congratulate Mr Breivik on his position as parliamentary leader in the Left. Before the election, the Left said that it was not appropriate to join the government with the Advance Party. The game was almost angry when someone suggested that there could be an opportunity. It has been called a ‘demobilisation campaign’. Now the Left is in government with the Advance Party. In Political Quarter yesterday, the Left Leader went a long way in suggesting that it was the Christian People's Party's responsibility that the Left now had to go to government with the Advance Party. How does the parliamentary leader of the Left view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1022	Also, let there be no doubt in this room that – as I said in my main post – it is not every day Left goes in government with the Progress Party. We have had quite thorough, sometimes tough processes in the fall if we were to take the step and enter into negotiations. We had a very thorough treatment of this in the party bodies before Christmas, both in the state government and in the group, where a plural gave the party leadership both confidence and told to go to negotiations. And when the negotiating result was first clear now in the new year, after two intense, really check-in weeks at a fantastic hotel out on Jeløya, there was no doubt in the party organs that this is going in our whole heart for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1027	I respect that it was a demanding decision, and that it was dealt with in the Left. Then it's important, once you've made such a tough decision, that one also stands for it, and that one stands for it as the party's own decision. That's exactly why I'm asking, because I think the Left's leader went so far in Political Quarter yesterday to say that it was really the Christian People's Party's responsibility that the Left had to go to government with the Advance Party. And that is what I am asking: what does the parliamentary leader of the Left think about such an analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1032	Now I think I and my fellow parliamentary leader, Arnstad, may listen with slightly different ears, even when we are in the Political Quarter. The most important thing for the Left, and which is the best answer The Left can give to both the Left's voters, the trust elected representatives and the representatives around the local government in the country, is the policy that the Left must contribute to this government's leadership. And with the starting point that we have now gone through the negotiations and the government statement, I feel very confident that we have very good intentions to show both voters and people out there that participating in this government is very good, not just for those who have voiced the Left, but for social development, for the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1037	I understand that kind of reasoning. Can I then conclude that the Left's parliamentary leader will definitely reject the fact that it is in some way the Christian People's Party's responsibility that the Left had to go to government with the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1042	The parliamentary leaders of the Left cannot approve of the conclusion of the Central Party's parliamentary leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1047	I would like to start by congratulating the representative Breivik that he and the Left ensure that the SV and the Left's common struggle for the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse is now crowned with victory. It's historic, and we're very happy about it. So to the other and less merry sides of the Jeloya platform. On 30 July 2015, the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, said the following to NTB about the dumping of mining waste in Førdefjorden: ‘This is one of the most important environmental issues we have next to the climate battle. You should never, never, never give in to such important matters». On 18 January, the new State Secretary of the Ministry of Climate and Environment said the following about the planned use of Fördefjorden as a garbage dump: ‘The environmental impact of the mining activity was very carefully assessed under the Pollution Act and considered as environmentally acceptable when the permit was granted.’ Why does the Left now think it is environmentally feasible to use the Fördefjord as a waste site for the mining industry, as the State Secretary says?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1064	First thanks for the congratulations, and congratulations back. There is no doubt that it is an important saying for those who are preoccupied with biological deficiency. Fjorddeponi is, of course, as much against today as we have always been. Then you have to realize that in government negotiations there are some things that are worse to win than others. We are still in favour of a ban on fjord landfills, and as the representative Haltbrecken is certainly aware after reading the government statement, we have been given an assurance that the government will now deal with a permanent ban on future fjord landfills. We have a certain understanding that, when we have been sitting in negotiations, it is worse to withdraw authorisations that have already been granted, even though we have, of course, also tried it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1074	It is still the case in Fördefjorden, and also in Repparfjorden, that all permits for operation have not been granted. These include: no operating concession has been granted and it is an authorisation that is most likely to have to be dealt with by the government. Then I would like to ask the representative Breivik if it is such that we can expect an equally intense fight from the Left for the preservation of Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden, and that they will thus agree to say no to the operating concession request that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1079	As I said in my first answer, the left is as much towards fjord deposition today as we always have. So we accept that unfortunately we haven't had anything done with the two deponias that the big crowd, against the left's voices, gave permission to. Of course, we want to be a janitor. Firstly, a temporary peace has now been established. There will be no new permits for fjord deposition in the current ageing period – in parallel to the fact that the government is also spending that time getting fixed and hopefully concluding that it makes sense to impose a permanent ban on fjord deposits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1088	It was said by the representative Breivik about both child poverty and sustainable well-being – that is good. In the government statement, the government says that small differences between people are important to ensure a resilient society. It is the Christian People's Party in agreement, for it has our recipe for success for Norway. Why is it so important for the government to take away or reduce taxes, for example. the property tax on houses and even cabins, as well as an increase in charges that do not have the smoothing function? And is it only for those who have normal wage income? I find the painting good, but I think the solution to the government is bombing to achieve these goals. Does Left really believe that less taxes from those who have the greatest ability to contribute create a society of little difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1097	No, on the contrary. And as I'm going to assume, the representative Brosvik is well aware, who himself has been involved in getting multiple figures for the last budgets, the Left is going to continue with the fiscal policy we've been putting together over the last four years, and which also this government is now pushing its fiscal policy, simply giving the most tax relief to those who need it the most. I remind the representative that we share the concern that people with temporary high incomes and lower average incomes have been taxed for the last four years of around NOK 8 000 – combined with everything we have done to facilitate access financially to kindergartens, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1102	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1107	I would like to start by congratulating the Left, the Advance Party and the Right on the government extension and on the government statement, which I think is good in many areas. We look forward to constructive cooperation. Norway is a very good country to live in for most people. Measured from life expectancy, standard of living and level of education, Norway is the world's best country to live in. Most people have a safe economic presence, oil wealth has given us the opportunity to build a welfare supply that is unique in the global context, and increased living standards have given people improved quality of life. But human beings have needs that extend beyond the material. Most people have a longing for something more than an increased standard of living. That is also something that the policy must respond to. He must recognise the value of community, time with family and friends, culture, voluntary work and trust-based community. We need a whole human vision. The Christian People's Party does not believe the quality of human life necessarily grows proportional to the growth of living standards. More money and material wealth are not answers to all human needs. Norwegian children are e.g. Europe's richest, but far down on the list of the most negligent European children. For example, SSB's life-cycle survey of people with a migrant background from 2017 showed: that Somali immigrants are more satisfied than other immigrants, despite the low levels of employment, the poor economy and the need for them. In fact, they were smaller than the average in Norway. In the world’s richest countries, we feel that child protection has increased in strenghtening and that the cows in psychiatry are growing. 180 000 people in crisis call the Church's SOS every year. Alcohol abuse is high, and consumption has increased by 50 pst. the last 20 years. Oslo has become the world’s overdose capital of the New York Times, and last week there was talk showing that the assault rate for children rose. For me, this shows that the common values of Norwegian society are under pressure. Norway is in the process of missing something on the road to the affluent society. Therefore, a debate on a government statement must be about how we address the major challenges and questions of our time. I would like to point out one area in which political action led to very good results. When the smoke laws were introduced by Dagfinn Højbrätten in his time, a third of them smoked daily. Today it's the number 11 pst. When smoking laws were introduced, the number of young people between the ages of 16 and 24 who smoked daily was 22 p.m. – today the number is 4 pst. Therefore, I believe we need more ‘smokers’ or political solutions that really solve the challenges we face in our affluent society – solutions that ensure that child abuse is detected and the number reduced, solutions for young people who are struggling with mental challenges, solutions to how we can target poverty both at home and abroad, solutions for how we help those students who have not had their potential taken up with the Norwegian school. I could name a lot of people and use this debate to point to the Christian People's Party's solutions to our society. Last week Angela Merkel spoke during the World Economic Forum in Davos. Merkel warns against ‘national egoism’. Its two major challenges are the international poverty gap and the man-made climate change. These two main challenges are, of course, two international challenges that need to be raised as a focus for Norway. It becomes easier now when the government has a government council for just these two areas. Norwegian development policy is an expression that Norway is not itself enough. We take international responsibility. As one of the richest countries in the world, we have better opportunities to contribute than nearly all other countries in the world. Therefore, Norway must take a lead in the fight against poverty. We in Norway must never become ourselves enough. We have a global responsibility. The Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Center party that will facilitate a policy that includes all human beings, and gives those who have some additional needs the opportunity to be an active part of society. Some years ago, the Christian People's Party invited Marte Goksøhr to the Stortinget. Norway got to know with an unusually strong, reflective and speechable lady with Down's syndrome – a young woman with clear meanings and courage to challenge the power of their own careers. The Christian People's Party was given its passport carefully prescribed after Martha's visit to the Stortinget. We had exploited a vulnerable person by inviting Marte to the Stortinget. But Marte has proved to be anything but one that can be exploited. She has seen an agenda. Marte has shown us that the sorting society can't be debated without the human beings that it approves also being heard. We want a society with space for everyone, who recognizes the value of the lack, who respects the absolute equivalency of all people, even though we are different both on the outside and inside. That was the embassy from the meeting with Marte. It is the censure of the Christian People's Party into the debate on the sorting society. For the Christian People's Party, this is not just a question of what is right to do, it's also about what communities we want. For a society, it is crucial to have some common values that bind one together. For what is it that has given nourishment and growth to the emergence of key values such as equivalency, human dignity, volunteering and neighbourly love? Here Christianity has had an entirely decisive meaning. That inheritance should not be hidden away, but rather be lifted up with pride. Those who think that knowledge of our cultural heritage is unnecessary, and by all means trying to erase Christianity's role in school and in society, are historyless. A prosperity society that doesn't know its roots and its values is like cut flowers. I believe most people in this country want to benefit from the good fruits our Christian and humanistic heritage has given us. But too many think, unfortunately, it is possible to house the good fruits without taking care of the roots. The declarations of government are incorporated into the ranks of those who do not see the need to lift our roots, the Christian and humanistic heritage. When the Prime Minister of our country explains this by the fact that trust in the individual can replace the Christian cultural heritage, it becomes a flawed explanation. Freedom of the individual is an important value, but is only part of the Christian cultural heritage. Christian People's Party is an opposition party. We are back to what has been our rule more than the exception in Norwegian policy, where minority governments have to seek varying support in Stortinget. In the future, the Christian People's Party will extend one hand to all parties who want constructive cooperation. We've shown it this fall: for us, the color of the party logo is not the decisive one, but the policy that we get through to. We have this cottage, among other things. ensure throughput for a teacher’s norm that ensures multiple learning resources for the individual student. This will make Norwegian schooling even better and not least mean much for the most vulnerable students. The Christian People's Party promises this in the election campaign. We promised teachers, students and parents that, and they've just pointed out that this is what they want most for Norwegian school. We have improved the care allowance arrangement. Some sick children need continuous care, and the Christian People's Party believes it's good that parents can have the opportunity to care for their children if they want to. We have extra leave for twin parents, so that both mother and father can stay home with their children for the first four months. The Christian People's Party says no to twins, and we follow our principle of politics that makes it easier for parents with great care tasks to be able to care for their children. We have received a flexible cash support. Now you can combine kindergarten and cash support at the same time. We've got more physical activity in the school. The Christian People's Party participated in ensuring one hour of physical activity in the school every day. It will enhance your learning ability. The Christian People's Party shall use its position in Stortinget with responsibility and wisdom. We shall vote in favour of the policy we are in favour of, and against, the policy we are against, within the framework of responsible health. With that I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1164	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1171	In my county, East-Agder, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have cooperated well both in the two largest cities, Arendal and Grimstad, and in the county municipality. I myself have enjoyed working with the Christian People's Party in the County Municipality for ten years, which has given us the opportunity to bet together, among other things. multiple learning places and mental health for young people in secondary education. I think that has been good both for us as political parties and for the inhabitants. Last fall, the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition, helped to secure a majority for more physical activity in school, increased father's quota, a wage cut back in the pensioner's mailbox, and that aids should continue to be a state responsibility. It was in my view wise decision, which was good also for the inhabitants, and it promises well for the rest of the ageing period when the representative Hareide now says he will reach out a hand to all parties. Can we expect that the Christian People's Party will cooperate with the Labour Party and the rest of the opposition in matters where we have similar political views, without this being restricted for the Christian People's Party by political leadership from the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1180	We want to cooperate with all parties that contribute to the policy of the Christian People's Party. I have said that clearly to both the government party and the other opposition party on the Stortinget. So it's like when we're going to find solutions in the Storting, I also said that we have to do it within responsible health, because I believe the Prime Minister is right when she says that we can be too many simple suggestions, but it's going to be contrary to the health that it can contribute to creating. There is also a responsibility at the Christian People's Party and at the Workers' Party – at all parties in the Stortinget – so that we can see the wholeness we share in adopting in this Chamber. So yes, we want constructive cooperation, but we have to see the wholeness that the different decisions create in Stortinget. It is the responsibility of the Christian People's Party – and it is the responsibility of all parties here at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1185	Next... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1190	One of the issues in which it should be possible for the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party to cooperate, precisely because it does not cost money, and that it is therefore possible to take care of the whole responsibility, concerns the question of retroactive power for the competence of the teachers. In February 2016, the current parliamentary vice president of the Christian People's Party came with a prayer on the Christian People's Party's website not to separate experienced teachers. For as he said: ‘We cannot afford to separate qualified and experienced teachers by giving retroactive effect to new requirements of competence in the school.’ Although it took some time, the prayer is now heard, at least by the Workers' Party. At a time when we're going to introduce a teacher's norm, we're at risk of even greater learning shortages if we're going to separate teachers with a lot of experience. But as we know, the blue ones are giving, and the blue ones are taking. And the Christian People's Party in the 2018 state budget seems to have given its support to the government's policy that competence requirements should have retroactive effect. My question is therefore: does the representative Hareide still see any possibility of contributing to the fact that we can at some point get a large majority who say no to separate experienced teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1203	The President will recall that representatives should ask for a line before taking the floor – but the zeal is commendable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1208	We stand by the agreements we have concluded, and in the budget agreement, the Christian People's Party has secured both a historical saying and something important for Norwegian schools, by getting a teacher's norm in place. In this agreement we are also involved in the competence requirements. We are disunity in them. We also think that there may be some challenges in implementing a teacher's norm, and we can see that those skills cannot prevent us from implementing a teacher's norm. But when the government thinks they're going to be able to implement a teacher's norm with these qualifications, we've said that yes, that's the possibility we want to give. But we need more teachers, we need teachers with the right skills, and that's why we've been involved in what we think is a very good health, when we have a teacher's standard to be introduced, and then we can accept those requirements, even if we initially have differences in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1213	School is one of the most important tools we have for social cohesion and equal opportunities for all. Another tool in this way is how we set up fiscal policies. In the last period, we experienced that the richest in Norway received 160 times more tax cuts than most people. It contributes to greater differences, not to a society where everyone is going. How will the Christian People's Party and the representative Hareide come up with new proposals from the government to help these differences continue to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1218	The Christian People's Party has been in the tax havens, and the tax notes we've been in, not least when we put in government itself, were primarily in the business world – what I would call value-creating tax laws, which have helped create more jobs. We experienced that at the beginning of this millennium, that's right. We have also been in the tax havens now, which have mainly gone to business. So I think, when we see what the Norwegian economy is dealing with, that this is not the time for the big tax havens. When we know what tasks we have within our welfare community, I think that that time is really over, at least the next time, and that there are other tasks that should be given priority. It also showed the last state budget, where it was marginally taxed. I also think that's right for the time being, because it's getting scarcer. And we, who heard the Prime Minister at the NHO's annual meeting, heard that she was just pointing at the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1225	The Progress Party has put in place an senior and public health minister, which is an important area, while, together with the Right and Left, we have agreed to put in place an elderly representative, who is also important to many older people. I registered, if I did not hear very wrong, that the representative Hareide did not take up the elderly in his post. But then I would like to challenge him in the change of line as to whether he can say anything about what he thinks about it that the elderly now have a minister of elderly and public health, and that this government prioritises the care of the elderly so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1232	That's what I thought was a good challenge. When the government was appointed, one of the things I raised was that we had got both our own senior minister and our own development minister. I thought it was very good, it gives a good signal to the elderly. But it is also about the fact that older people today do not only have care needs; they are also a very resource. The Christian People's Party has wanted its own senior minister, and we see very constructively and positively that we have received an older minister – and a minister of public health. Then is the question of the Minister of Public Health taking the challenge of the Christian People's Party has given in the area I mentioned in my post that pertained to smoking law, and that has given significant political success. Then they ask if the new councillor, Åse Michaelsen, is now taking the challenge and making smoking laws even better on what we have to point to, in playgrounds and in outdoor restaurants. I think that time is ripe, when we've seen the political results of smoking laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1245	The left's participation in government in layers with the Right and the Advance Party has been described as one of the most spectacular lifting pieces in recent Norwegian history. Regardless of the grading of this pledge, it was written political history when the Left left the close cooperation with the Christian People's Party in favour of participation in government together with the Progress Party. There is respect for the boundaries imposed by the Christian People's Party through the election struggle in relation to the Progress Party, and there is also respect for the party's promise not to go into government with the Progress Party. So I want to congratulate the leader of the Christian People's Party on a wise choice. The question is: Does the leader of the Christian People's Party think that the Left, with its participation in the government, has led to less or greater political distance from the Christian People's Party? And how does the Christian People's Party evaluate the long-term effects of this choice on the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1252	I don't think I'm going to conclude on what the Left's participation in the government will have to say for the cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's what politics decide. We've been working very well with the Left over the four years that have gone by, in the previous growing-up period. And I said from the pulpit a few minutes ago that we want a constructive and good cooperation with all the parties, and we hope to continue the constructive and good cooperation we have had with the Left in the last four years. But it is the policy that determines it. I think it's good that we don't turn this into a game and strategy, but that it's the real policy that decides this. And then the solution is the Christian People's Party policy for families, for human dignity and for a society that raises those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1259	In the days after the government statement was ready, the country's debate area was filled with busta. The Christian People's Party has moved on to the fact that the declaration does not mention the words "Christian Cultural Heritage". That's the Christian People's Party occupied, and that's fine. Many of us were still a bit in the living room. For are references to Christian cultural heritage most important, or is it the fact that more than 100,000 young people in poor families are now growing up, that the Government Declaration speaks throughout about testing universal schemes, that Bufdir's report on the government's so-called poverty effort meets with the word'merciful' by UNICEF? I know that the representative Hareide, like me and SV, is concerned with the next love. Is the representative Hareide satisfied with the government's policy, with child-responsiveness and test of needs, or will he form a majority with the opposition to strengthen the universal arrangements and defend the next love of practical policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1264	There is absolutely no contradiction between the demand for the Christian cultural heritage and our humanistic values and having a clear focus on the fact that precisely the next love, human dignity and the kind of values that the Christian threatens and the tradition, have a distinctive character in our society. I thought the government was taking some important steps in the right direction, including: prior to the fight against poverty internationally and in key issues related to climate, which I believe are clearer in this government platform than in the previous one. So that's what we'll disagree about. We're concerned about having universal well-being, because I think it's important that there are some good things that we're all contributing to, and where we're all getting a little bit back. It's a part of creating a legitimacy. Need-tested schemes do not have the same legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1275	A few days before the agreement on the Jeløya platform, 52 organisations handed over to us in the Left that they wanted their own Minister of Development. The left listened to civil society, and Norway had its own Minister of Development. Congratulations to him! He's here in the hall now. I guess the Christian People's Party is very satisfied with this, but it's just one important step on the way. The second is, of course, the good text and the points that have been raised, to achieve the UN's sustainability objectives, to help people with the greatest needs and to deal with forgotten conflicts and disasters. Contributing to the economic development of sub-Saharan sub-Saharan Africa has been highlighted, and efforts for global health, such as vaccination, child health and reproductive health, have been mentioned to be stepped up. I know that the hearts of the Christian People's Party are beating for this, and we in the Left share the ambition that Norway will be the leader of international human rights and promote it, including freedom of religion for the persecuted. How does the Christian People's Party think of contributing to the fulfilment of this part of the Jeløya platform, and can we expect a supportive friend here on the Stortinget to raise the whole field of development during this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1282	Yes, the Christian People's Party will be a supportive friend to just raise the poverty perspective and do something about what's one of the world's two major challenges now. It's the poverty gap we have, and it's climate. I have been pleased to see that we have got our own development minister, and I believe Nikolai Astrup is the right man in the right place. But what the representative Abid Raja doesn't mention, which is also a very good part of the Jeløya platform, is that one will look at the model for the management of aid funds. I think that's over-mature. Over the past 15 to 20 years, we have had a model that has largely given the ministry a great deal of responsibility. Now I think we should give Norad a greater share of the responsibility to make sure that the funds to go to the poor of the world really go to the poor of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1289	The scripture says, in Matthew 6:24: “You cannot serve both God and mammon.” If this is unclear with God, it is at least obvious that the new government will serve mammon, not least the welfare profitors. We know that these commercial actors are pushing out the ideal actors from child protection, kindergartens, drug care. They plunge in with big economic muscles in their backs, and they push out the Salvation Army, the Bymition, the Blue Cross and other important ideal actors. 59 pst. by the electorate of the Christian People's Party, that private offers in the welfare sector should be operated only by ideals and not by commercials. Will the Christian People's Party on the Biggest be involved in driving out the money changers – if not out of the temple, at least out of our welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1294	I chose not to quote the script today, and I wasn't entirely foreordained that the party leader was in Red. But I think it's good words to take with me, and the position of the ideals is important to keep going. So I think that the debate we have had has been marked by the fact that the right-hand side has seen the private commercial, and I think the left-hand side of Norwegian politics has seen too much just the public. The ideals are in an intermediate position, which is very important for the Christian People's Party. But I want to give Red right in one thing, and that's that the private commercials have seen them ideal in a peculiarly deferred position, and so we're willing to look at solutions and raise the ideals. They're a very important part of both our history and our cultural heritage, and they should be taken care of. Not least, it ensures the better quality of our citizens' services, and that is the crucial question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1303	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1308	On behalf of the Green Party, I would like to congratulate the Right, the Progress Party and the Left on the formation of the government. I would also like to congratulate you on some of the highlights of the government statement, in particular the continuation of electric car subsidies, the Russian reform, the closure of fur farming and the oil-free Lofoten, the Vesterølen and Senja and some other nature conservation measures. But we in the Greens believe that Norway needed a declaration of government that was more innovative, more solidarity and more conservative. I would like to introduce a perspective from the Groruddalen, from which I come. There's a lot to do in the Grorud Valley: the proximity of the fields, the people who live there, the diversity and the cohesion. One would almost think that the Grorud valley would be self enough and forget the world around it. But even in the Grorud Valley, we see birds disappear from the birdboard. Even in Groruddalen, we notice that the pipes in the ground are no longer able to keep the rainwater away. Even in Groruddalen, we notice the poison drifting out into the pelvis from old fillings and into the air, drifting down into the lungs, and the noise that is constantly drifting everywhere. Even in the Grorud Valley, young people feel more and more alienated in a society that requires them to perform, produce and consume more and more. We see that that's the way society is built on, that's not sustainable -- it's not sustainable. And we already notice the consequences. What I'm proud of at the Grorud Valley is that we see each of us as part of the world. What I'm proud of is that many of us are trying to do something -- football runners, parents, climate activists and culturalists who give of themselves to create a better society. People care about the future of their children and about the future of their society. And then I wonder when I read the government statement: why are we not able in Norway to turn our endless care for our children and grandchildren into a policy that takes care of the future life base of the same children? The government statement had been a better statement in a world where the political sky was sloppy, and where we did not have life-threatening haste in environmental policy and thousands of people fall outside society. The government statement has a wide range of good suggestions and an even longer range of good intentions, but it is characterized by a notion that after four years of blue government, Norway and the world are almost perfect. But we live in a crucial time. Life on earth dies around us. Every year counts. Under the Red Government, environmental policy stood in place and rested for eight years, and the blue-blue have continued the same policy. There have been green points of light in both, absolutely, but not enough to reverse the trend. Many of the world's countries are now setting themselves up to be renewable and sustainable, and our noodles can make Norwegian businesses miss out on great opportunities. While the green train goes too far in countries like Sweden and Germany, in Norway we cling to the old kerosene lamp pole on the platform. In Norwegian business, we are ready to bet, and with strong trade unions, we have what we need for a humane transition. Green nutrition is smart, but then it has to be part of a real green shift. Green shifts are cost-effective insurance to take care of the future. Calculations show that 1 to 2 pst. of each country’s GDP is the insurance premium needed to avoid the greatest climate change. It's in the middle of what we're using today for aid, and what NATO wants us to spend on the military, a good investment when the risk is overwhelming because if we don't do anything, the damage can cost up to 20 pst. of the total GDP of the world. Such insurance would be the conservative choice. We have to change the way we do things to preserve our basis of life for the future. It is fully possible, but it will require a government statement where we stop opening even more fossil fields on Norwegian soil, move the large subsidies from oil and gas to renewable industries, implement a green tax shift that actually works, protect the rest of the pristine nature in Norway and start the restoration of lost natural resources, explore solutions that prepare us for robots and algorithms taking over many of today's jobs, such as the civil pay system, share more in the work, that we dare to take hold of the sky-high consumption of the kind of food, clothing and consumer products that destroy the climate, the environment and not least life around the world. It requires that we find back to the basic human values, where we prioritise more time for each other rather than more stress and spending. The government statement is a retreat – it does not dare to bet. It does not seize the opportunities, and it does not enable Norway to meet the challenges of our time. This is serious, and therefore – although we can cooperate on a lot and will cooperate on a lot in the future – the government can expect a clear opposition policy from the Greens in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1336	Thank you to the Greens for a good and interesting article. From the Labour Party we look forward to working together with all the opposition parties, including the Greens, in areas where we can find one another. Not least in climate and environmental policy, where I hope we can continue cooperation from the previous period to pursue more offensive environmental policies than the right parties have been willing to implement. One of the areas we're concerned about is the capture and storage of CO2. When Siv Jensen presented the state budget in October, it was proposed a 90 p.m. cut. for the precise capture and storage of CO2. In the government statement, they have been reduced in terms of what they had four years ago. You wouldn't think that was possible, but with the Left's government's inception, the ambitions have gone down compared to what they were four years ago. My question to the Greens is whether they share this concern and whether they will be involved and take initiatives to ensure that Norway continues to invest in this crucial environmental technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1347	I thank you for the question. We're now in the interesting situation that it's later that the government has given up its leadership position in terms of CCS, and left it, among other things. on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament. We are saying in our agreed large-scale programme that we are going to carry out all three full-scale projects on the table, and we also want more research to make this technology cheaper to use. So we definitely share that concern, not least for Oslo, whose climate objectives depend entirely on the implementation of a full scale plant on Klemetsrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1354	Thanks for the answer. We look forward to working with the Greens on this issue. We have now received a climate minister from the Left, and we only wish him good luck with the job, but we are concerned about the implementation. The truth is that all the main climate ministries are headed by the Progress Party: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In addition, we have actually received a weakened Ministry of the Environment. Four years ago, the Planning Department was transferred from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to major protests from all opposition parties. This is further weakened by the fact that the management of harvested game species is also moved out of the Ministry of Climate and Environment and into the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The environmental and outdoor organisations react and strongly warn against this and say that it will weaken nature management. Does the Greens share this concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1361	We clearly share many of these concerns. Now, of course, it remains to be seen what they deliver in practice, but in particular this grip on the fact that the Elvesu State Council loses power over what is called ‘harvest game’, which is to be managed by the Minister of Agriculture, we find it worrying. Hunting and fishing are obviously an important part of our interaction with nature, but now one goes from looking at the elk as a living creature in Norwegian nature to looking at it as a wandering steak.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1367	It is quite wonderful to hear the Greens quote Edmund Burke, because for many years Oslo went ahead in terms of climate and environment, in a good conservative spirit. For example, it was heavily invested in collective, greener urban life, solar cells and green finance. It was a low level of conflict related to green solutions – until the Green Party came to power. Right-hand controlled Vestfold is becoming Norway’s greenest state. We've built biogas plants, our school buses run on food and livestock waste, solar cells are spreading like fire in dry grass – there's a lot of sun down at our house – we're building Norway's first plus-house school, and we're working with the Farm team to cut emissions in agriculture. We meet green and offensive businesses, innovative municipalities and dedicated residents. In Westfold, climate and environment focus on modern solutions, value creation, better everyday life for most people, as the government puts it. In Oslo, the Green Party has turned the climate and environment into one of the most pervasive and negative things we've seen for a long time, and with a very high level of conflict. So my question is, which of these two approaches does the Green Party believe is best for environmental and climate policy over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1376	I thank you for the question from the representative Westgaard-Halle, and I commend Westfold for many beautiful green measures. There are basically three types of instruments to choose from when implementing environmental policies. These are the blue instruments, such as influencing the competitive situation, such as: do so in Oslo by raising toll prices and making it less competitive to drive a car. It's the red tools, regulating what's law and not law. For example, diesel ban days have been introduced. And then it's the green tools, to introduce alternatives, which we're trying to do with expanding the collective offer. I would like to say that some of the things we have tried to do in Oslo with, among other things. reduction in the price of public transport has been made more difficult because the government has set up VAT on the collective service – not just once, but they do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1385	I did not get exactly an answer to the question. But I can follow up on the approach adopted by the Greens in Oslo. It is largely based on increasing taxes and making everyday life a little harder for people. The idea is to force people into behavioral patterns that are compatible with what the Greens think is the right way of living, and that is, to a large extent, okay. However, the challenge is – in addition to the increased level of conflict that we see very much in Oslo – that there are also increasing differences. When it's supposed to be environmentally friendly becomes so expensive that a green everyday becomes an invincible cost for some families and lonely, we lose the fight for the climate. My question is: will the Green Party change its approach and ensure that increased focus on climate is not synonymous with increasing differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1390	We fully agree that increased focus on climate and increased focus on differences must go hand in hand. There are two types of solidarity. Then, of course, we have to say that it is a challenge when the Green Party has only implemented locally and not very much of the national anti-poverty policy, where we have a number of measures that would make everyday life considerably easier for the poorest, especially those who cannot afford their own car.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1397	I record that the representative Haug is very concerned about the Groruddalen, and that is where we have both public transport and good roads. On their websites the Environmental Party of Greens writes that they want to deprioritize the construction of new motorways and airports. At the same time, they say in their programme: ‘Greens will further develop an efficient transport system as a prerequisite for a modern society, an efficient business.’ Then my question is: how does the representative Haug think that the business community in this country should be further developed without a major investment in road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1402	I thank the representative Gustavsen for the opportunity to launch a green business policy. Often it's hard just to talk about the environmental issue. We want, in the case of roads, to spend less money on expanding road capacity and building new roads and more money on maintaining existing road infrastructure. As far as business is concerned, we believe that we are totally dependent on developing a responsible policy in Norway, where we do not rely entirely on industries that are in the process of becoming self-reliant. We believe that one of the most important steps we can take is to shift investment and subsidies from fossil industries to renewable industries, where there could potentially be many jobs in the future, also in different local places around the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1407	I am pleased to hear that the Greens are engaged in the business sector, but the Greens will set aside an industry that will send over 185 000 people into unemployment, and that will cause the state to lose billions of income. How does the representative Haug feel that one should be able to continue and finance the well-being of this country without the oil and gas industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1412	Now there's been a lot of investment under both the red and blue governments to keep the fossil industry alive. This has resulted in three years of 40 000 lost jobs. This is not an industry we in the Greens want to put down; this is an industry we are afraid of being laid down by itself, and that throwing money into the industry is to throw bad money after good – to turn a little on the usual expression. We believe that we need to bet on renewable jobs, which have a future ahead of us, rather than the jobs that we think will disappear on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1417	Much has been shown that the Environment Party of the Greens sits in the City Council in Oslo, and not long ago the City Council proposed more stringent parking facilities. Yesterday the Board of Senior Citizens went out and said that there is a backside of this, and it is that more and more elderly people are also becoming more and more lonely. Then it becomes a challenge because you don't get out, and if it gets even more stringent, it's also a challenge. The City Council in Oslo replied that they had not thought of that consequence. Has the Green Party considered that this could be a challenge for a group that represents a very large proportion of the population and which has lost relations with people and is more lonely than the average population?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1422	I thank you for the question from Bollestad and ask me something strange to the answer she received from the City Council. Of course, we share the concern that there are many elderly people who are lonely, and it is important that these people have good ways to get around to meet other people. But the City Council has set up a pilot scheme with a maxitaxi service that runs around and picks up older people, both those who live at home, and those who live in nursing homes around the city. This is a pilot scheme that has been tested in some urban areas. There are pink taxis that are going to be quite visible in the urban environment as this scheme is being rolled out. It's a very popular system and an alternative that makes many older people, who might not afford to own their own car, actually get more mobility and get around visiting friends and loved ones, but also other things around the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1427	It is great that there are public services for those who are not able to drive themselves, but there are an incredible number of older people who are neither in a nursing home nor in an institution, but who have a need for freedom to get around. It's part of their everyday life, and one also needs to have meeting points that are independent of when the taxi goes. So I ask again: Christian People's Party is very much in order to get as much as possible into collectives, but there are some groups we have to worry about when we take parking spaces, and those are the ones that need them the most. Has not the Green Party considered that there are some vulnerable groups that we should be looking after when making such proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1433	We fully agree that there are vulnerable groups that have an additional need to get around in different ways, including by using a car, and some of the idea behind these traffic regulation measures implemented in Oslo is precisely to facilitate those who have a special need for the use of the car to get around. When there are fewer drivers on the roads who could have chosen alternative modes of transport, there will be fewer traffic and fewer traffic for the other road users. When there is less competition, it is easier for the weakest to escape.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1438	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1443	The government has agreed on a predictable policy course. The problem is that this is not the time for a shock course to the right. We live in a time that requires fundamental change, a time when it's about creating a turning point before it's too late. Just look at the emergence of Difference Norway. Erna Solberg said the government wants to deliver society to our children in the same good condition as we received it from our ancestors. That's well said, but that's not where we're going. The generation that is growing up today is at risk of becoming the first one in over 100 years of age to be more insecure than their parents, much because of increasing differences. But the government chooses to close its eyes and ears and pretend everything's okay. In the platform, they say that they want to work to take care of a society with small differences. Is Norway really a country with small differences? Yesterday was the so-called payday, the day of the year in which the top managers earned what is a normal annual salary. At the same time, people experienced most real wage cuts last year – real wage cuts. I say it twice, because it's been so long since it happened last time that we almost forgot that the word and the phenomenon exist. So the richest are getting richer, while ordinary families get less to walk with. Is this the government going to work to take care of what they're writing in their platform? I'm worried that the government can't recognize increasing inequality even when it's happening right in front of their eyes. It testifies to a government that doesn't understand the time we live in, a government that likes to adorn itself with promises of spreading power and authority, but which in practice pursues a policy for the opposite, with tax incentives for those who have a lot, labour-environment laws that give more power to the bosses, and a privatisation policy that gives more and more power to welfare professionals who push out ideals and weaken diversity. The government platform shows that Norway is now governed by three privatisation parties. Almost no matter what challenges society faces, the answer is to let the commercial take over. We get to congratulate the welfare professionals with full penetration in the government platform, but the majority of people have to take responsibility and lower the foothold of market fundamentalism, because this policy undermines well-being, not only because the beneficiaries spend money that should have gone to nurturing elderly and vulnerable children, in their own pockets, but also because the tax will among peoples is falling most when they see that the tax money goes to private enrichment instead of to common well-being. This government will not make the welfare state more sustainable, rather on the contrary. It allows Nav to use recruitment agencies to get people to work, but the recruitment agencies are no rescue for the welfare state, they're a threat. They undermine the right to a permanent job, which is the support bar in the Norwegian model. To strengthen the unemployment agencies is to say by the branch we are sitting on. I also miss a government that takes social dumping and labour crime seriously. Instead, the government recognizes the person who chooses not to organize. Here too, the majority of the population have to take responsibility. I therefore invite the rest of the opposition to support the proposal we have submitted, which reads: ‘The government is asking the Storting to bring the matter forward with proposals which help to increase the degree of organisation, as recognition of the importance of the choice of professional organisation of many workers.’ The NHO also wants a more organised working life, so here it should be possible to actually have unanimity in the Grand Chamber on the Red's proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1465	Would the representative like to comment on his proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1470	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1475	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1483	The manning industry is a hot potato these days – a threat, I guess, it was said. It's an industry that employs 1.5-2 pst. of the labour market. On the website of Red, a read claim can be made about Difference Norway, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It’s to work in a staffing agency and you’re always looking for the next watch, while you see young heirs already in search of housing.’ In 2016, 80,000 permanent jobs were created through the manning industry. For many, the industry is a door opener into the workplace. The manpower industry is provided with both highly educated, low-skilled and uneducated personnel. They don't distinguish anyone. I am surprised that Red does not see that the manning industry can also give people a chance to get a permanent job. Some people need help in the workplace. My question is: what kind of alternatives does Red see between the two extremes total ban and full release?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1497	I was at a construction site on Storo two weeks ago and met those employed by the staff agencies. They told me that they were offered five-day contracts. Then the weekend comes, and then they get text messages about whether they have a job or not the next week. If the boss likes you, you get a job, you don't like it, you don't get a job. This is a layman's regime that we got rid of, we thought, 50–60 years ago. The alternative to the unemployment regime is, of course, that the entrepreneurs employ people for their projects – as they did up to the year 2000 – when there is a need for labour, that people have a job protection that they do not have if they work in a recruitment agency – they lose their jobs by the day and do not get a new job unless the boss is most gracious to give them a new job. So they are the willingness of the employer to do so. We're not going to have it like that. We're going to give workers a certain dignity – even at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1502	We all agree that we should have an organized and serious working life, but the crew industry is a regulated industry as a server of Norwegian business. Why does Red want to hit a company operating in line with Norwegian laws and regulations? I also wonder if the representative of Moxnes can tell me how he sees the distinction between subcontractors and staffing agencies, and how he thinks these will be affected by a possible ban on the manning industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1507	Where the agencies are going in, the trade union movement is being wiped out. Now it's down to 15 pst. organised at the construction sites in Oslo. 40 pst. is on average let-in. Last week, numbers showed that 80 pst. by all announced new jobs on construction sites in Oslo are announced by the employment agencies. They take over, they replace fixed employment, they replace the contractors. This means that Higher Education's great new dates for organised work become words only because they are in favour of a policy that in practice prepares the basis for recruitment agencies, which thus erases the trade movement. And that's not strange, because if you're organized in a recruitment agency, you can't risk getting more work from the boss, unless he appreciates that the employees are organized in a trade union.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1513	We all want flexibility, we want an organized working life, and we want to increase the level of organization. But the agencies can be involved in ensuring this flexibility. Red believes that other companies can take over the job. In a market they fall in the same market. When an enterprise gets more activity, it often follows the others, and it can create a lack of skilled labour, including in Oslo. How will the Red companies solve that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1518	Workers do not disappear even if the agencies are banned. If we need construction workers to build Oslo, to build the country, they need to be built, whether we have staff agencies or not. From 1950 to 2000, renting of labour was not permitted under commercial law. How did they solve this? Well, you know, you hired professionals between the big production companies if there were tops to be taken. It was then ensured that people from companies with collective bargaining agreements, who have apprentices, were hired to invest in productivity and skills for employees. I wonder if the Right has got how many apprentices there really are in the recruitment agencies. The number of that is, as I know, 1 minus 1. That's not strange, because there's no development of competence in a staffing agency. It's five-day contracts. It undermines the possibility for apprentices, for the future of the professions and for serious employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1523	I want to start by commending the representative of Moxnes for being busy talking about Difference Norway. He gave a good description of how the government has increased and will continue to increase differences in Norway. Increasing differences are not just unfair. It is a threat to stability and security in Norwegian society. However, the power to counteract such developments lies in this room. The majority of the population may even lower their feet and force them through measures that ensure fairer solutions. As the largest opposition party, it is natural for the Workers' Party to take on our proposals and our policies. My question to the representative of Moxnes is: What measures to reduce the differences in Norway does the representative see that there can be a majority in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1530	Thank you for that question. I guess it's quite possible in the workplace to get important grips. The most important thing is to ensure that more people organise themselves. It's there, in the world of work, that the distribution of values happens, so if we have strong trade unions, we ensure fairer redistribution. That means that we have to bring with us the Christian People's Party to fight the manning universe. Here, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Red Party and the Green Party quite agree, but we must bring with us the Christian People's Party. I think that is quite possible, because they also see that this destroys the future of Norwegian youth who want a future in the professional field, that the unemployment regime takes over. Then we must also have a majority for a fairer tax policy. It's a little longer to go – I think – to get the Workers' Party involved in a progressive policy in that area, but I think it's quite possible when you see that the government's policy increases the differences. And in a situation where real wages go down for most people and the rich get richer, there is a need for powerful grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1535	Thank you, Mr Moxnes, for your answer. When we hear the speeches in this debate, both from the government parties and from the opposition, it is touching to hear how many parties are now occupied by the differences – from the representative of Moxnes on the one hand to the government parties on the other. It naturally delights us in the Workers' Party, because our whole movement is based on reducing the differences between people and giving more people more freedom. But it doesn't keep just talking about differences. We need action. Government parties have understood that it is wise to say ‘differences’ as often as possible, but there is a long way between saying so and actually doing something. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Moxnes, whether he himself, although the Labour Party and the Red have a little different instruments, will help the opposition to join forces to draw policies in a direction that will bring less differences and more justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1542	Red is already doing well, even with our one-person group. I think it's quite possible to get a majority on the Storting to live up to what's the will of the population. A majority of people most want a Norway that has less differences. There has been an expressed wish for many decades. Although changing governments have led a policy that has increased the differences, I think more and more people now see that a change in course is needed to get something done before it is too late. I hope that in both labour policy – combating social dumping, manning agencies – in fiscal policy and also in the fight against our tax money disappearing into private profit, we can get a majority to ensure that we both equalise the differences, get more justice and ensure that our tax money goes to well-being and not to enrich a few billionaires.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1547	In order to achieve a sustainable welfare state with sustainable welfare schemes, as this government wishes, it is necessary to have control over how many enter Norway. Integration is also crucial. Learning those who will be here, about Norwegian society and the Norwegian language, is a prerequisite for their participation in the community. Red, on the other hand, wants to go a completely different way. Their work programme says that they want to receive 20,000 quota refugees per year. It also states that they will eliminate a number of requirements that promote integration, such as: requirements for Norwegian and social knowledge and self-sufficiency in order to obtain citizenship. My question will then be: does the representative of Moxnes believe that 20 000 quota refugees this year who meet fewer requirements than today will strengthen or weaken the sustainability of the welfare society in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1556	I think we have a responsibility to help people who are fleeing from war and terror. A country that is among the richest in the world can and should take that responsibility and not leave people left to a life-threatening situation in their home country or neighbourhoods, where it is also very unsafe. There is a strange duality in the immigration policy of the Progress Party, where they, on the one hand, want to put a stop to them as refugees from war and terror, while at the same time opposing any type of regulation of labour immigration from the EEA area, although it is a driving factor, according to research and experience from the trade unions, behind pressure on wages and conditions in Norway. There is clearly a desire from the Progress Party for free movement over Svinesund, but it is thus putting down the bomb for refugees from war and terror. On the other hand, we are in favour of a more robust refugee policy, but we are also in favour of regulation of immigration from the EEA area to ensure that we do not experience social dumping and more crime in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1565	The Jeløya platform adds an inclusion virtue. It goes right into the heart of one of the biggest challenges we have – especially in Oslo – and I feel that the representative Moxnes is also concerned about. Only in my own town, Old Oslo, are the areas where up to 60 pst. children must grow up in poverty. This leads to a reduction in children’s participation in kindergarten, SFO and recreational activities from poorer health and less social participation. The strength of the Jeløya platform is that it is not believed that there is a single measure that will solve the major challenges. The measures in the platform range from providing people with tools to create their own workplaces to increase access to kindergarten and SFO, regardless of the address at which they live. My question to the Moxnes representative is: Will Red contribute to a common effort to ensure that fewer children have to live in poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1572	The answer to that is a loud and clear yes. That is also why Red proposes and is committed to extending universal welfare schemes. We want it to be free in the long term to send their children in kindergarten or in the SFO, and that no payment should prevent them from participating. We saw, among other things: at the Tøen school in Old Oslo, that when we introduced the SFO without self-payment, participation went up from less than 40 pst. for more than 90 pst. Now we collect property taxes from those who have the largest dwellings in this city, and they spend the money to finance cheaper SFOs and cheaper kindergartens for those who live in the eastern districts and in the south of Oslo. We also want this to apply gradually to the whole city and the whole country, and therefore we are sceptical of the difficult tax cuts that undermine the possibility of, among other things, expanding universal arrangements for the whole population, regardless of where you live.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1577	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1583	Four years ago, the Progress Party joined the government with a goal of creating a simpler everyday life for people and businesses. In the fall of last year, the voters continued to trust the non-socialist parties, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. We got a majority. It resulted in the Jeløya platform and an extended government, with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. It is historic – for the Progress Party, because we are continuing in government and are going to continue and strengthen the policy we have pursued in recent years, for Norway, because we are getting a strengthened non-socialist government to address the major challenges facing Norway. In this platform, we have pointed to some of the main challenges that we have to do with. The first and most important thing is that we have to create more jobs. We've come up with a new year of optimism. Freedom goes down, and economic growth goes up. But we need to keep transforming the Norwegian economy to create new, profitable jobs and to make sure that we have more legs to stand on in the future. That is why I am pleased that we have a platform that has ambitions on behalf of Norwegian students, Norwegian jobs, research and innovation. The government is concerned about the whole of what we're doing. By investing in knowledge, we lay the foundation for the business life of the future. When we invest in safe kindergartens, good teachers and motivated skilled workers, we get back for it in the future. We're going to continue building up better roads, the public service and the railways. It provides a simpler travel everyday for all of us and a better environment, whether you deliver goods to the customer, commute to work or go to kindergarten It is worth creating jobs and working in Norway. No one disagrees that everyone has to pay taxes to finance our well-being. But safe and good jobs that generate profits over time are a pillar of the Norwegian welfare society. Therefore, welfare can never be set up against value creation — one presupposes the other. This is precisely why our businesses need to be able to create more, not more taxes. We've been lucky in Norway, but nothing's come for free. It is a result of the efforts of hardworking people all over the country. Many people want to contribute, but meet closed doors. That is why we want to take the initiative on inclusion. Together, we need to provide faster and better health care, and we need to ensure training for adults who lack basic skills. We need to cooperate more closely with business so that those who have had a difficult period are given opportunities, trust and responsibility and become good taxpayers. If we are to maintain the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare community, we depend on more immigrants coming to work. If we are to succeed, we must control immigration. In the Jeleia platform, the government is adding several important constraints. At the same time, we are going to implement an integration promise, so that more immigrants can get into work and become part of the Norwegian community. This is about the fewer who go to social security, and the more that are included in work, the more sustainability we get in the economy. It is important for Norway, and it provides security for individuals. Over four years, the government has invested more of our common savings in sustainable values for the country: infrastructure, hospitals, hospitals, schools. We're going to continue that, but if we're going to afford to build up welfare, even for generations to come, it's not insignificant how this money is spent. Individuals must feel safe inside and outside their own home. Therefore, crime must be combated, and the threat of terrorism must be taken seriously. People shall be safe to get help in emergency situations. People who get sick for a long time are at risk of falling out of work. Waiting for treatment creates insecurity. That's why we're going to continue to reduce health cows. People who have lived a long life must have a safe and meaningful everyday life, despite the fact that old age causes life to change. We are getting older, and it will require capacity and quality in the care of the elderly. A good social safety network shall ensure equal opportunities for all. The fight against child poverty is not over. Ensuring good growth conditions for all children is essential in order to become independent and safe adults. The challenges facing Norway are great, and our starting point for solving them is the best. But it's going to require something from us. In order to ensure well-being, we need to implement reforms, even when these are demanding in the short term. We have to get more out of taxpayers' money. They should not be wasted but invested in welfare and growth. We have to dry to think again. We need to convert, renew and make demands – to the public sector, to business and to individuals. I look forward to constructive cooperation with Stortinget to ensure that Norway remains one of the world’s best countries to live in – not just for our generation, but also for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1622	It is worth creating jobs in Norway, says the Council of State. I agree, because if we're going to have enough money to maintain well-being, it's important that we tax revenue where the value creation takes place. But in a lot of companies, you move the profits around, it ends up in tax havens and is not taxed. The government statement states that ‘prevent profit movements’. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain what concrete new measures she intends to take to prevent profits from being moved to countries other than Norway for taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1627	I am pleased that the representative of Aasrud is concerned about this. There is a broad majority in the United Kingdom that has worked together for a long time to put in place new and improved cross-border instruments to reduce the potential for profit relocation, for more transparency, more transparency, and not least how to tax multinational companies. These are challenges faced by many different international forums. Norway has had a driving role in these issues for many years. We have put in place many legislative changes. International tax agreements are signed. More and more countries are joining in, and that is the whole foundation for both combating profit movements and improving conditions so that the company does not neglect taxation. This legislation must then be implemented in several countries, and it is therefore important that not only Norway has good legislation in place but that several countries join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1632	The Council of State analysis is good, but there were no new measures, so the issue is still relevant: how to prevent more? I had thought that the council had come to sign it out as a unanimous decision was taken before Christmas, that there would be put down a public sample that ‘shall identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services, including trade between related persons, use of tax havens, thin capitalisation and dividends. The Committee shall propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being and how to prevent undesirable tax adaptation in companies that are mainly financed by public funds.’» I had expected the Council of State to remember this proposal when she was going to sign out what measures could be taken to prevent this money from being moved. So I'm going to challenge the government council again: how are you going to follow up the unanimous decision that was in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1642	First of all, by letting the sample do its job, and on the basis of that, the government will come back to Stortinget. I just want to remind the representative Aasrud that what we are discussing today is the government's statement, the ambitions that this government has in different policy areas for the next four years. I can assure the representative of Aasrud that we will follow up on all the ambitions contained in the declaration, including in this area. There's been a lot of work done, and we're going to do more, including internationally, to make it easier for companies to get properly taxed and in the countries they're going to be taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1649	Good preparedness and a well-functioning defence are essential for our country. In 2016, there was a defence uprising in the Progress Party. The country meeting was very clear, it decided to reach the 2 percentage points as soon as possible and by 2024 at the latest. Clearly, it cannot be said. I noticed that Siv Jensen has had some memory problems lately, and I noticed that when I read the government statement. What's that saying? It says that one should go in the direction of reaching the 2th percentile in the long term. And then Minister of Defense Bakke-Jensen was here last week and said that the proportion that goes to the future defense is going to go down, not go up. Can Minister of Finance Siv Jensen confirm what Minister of Defence Bakke-Jensen said – or wrote in a letter – last week, that the proportion to be defended will fall next year, won't it go up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1656	What is most important to Norwegian defence and our defence capabilities in the future is that we strengthen the defence economy. This government has done so, and it will continue to do so by following the long-term plan of defence and other ambitions and decisions of a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. I think maybe I'd go a little quietly in the doors if I was the representative of Battle Violence Vedum. He himself sat in a government that never prioritized the defense, and that contributed to a severe reduction of the defense for many years. That development has now turned upside down. It's because some of us recognize the need to strengthen the Defense. Then it's not just about assessing this as a percentage, it's about actually assessing the real growth in the budgets from one year to the next – giving the defense the ability to invest, which gives the defense the ability to rust its crew, and that gives the defense enhanced fighting power compared to what one had when the Tryve Battle Force Vedum was the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1663	I think the Siv Jensen Council should get a little out of Oslo and meet those who work in the Army, those who work in Homeland Protection, and see what the situation actually is -- see what the situation is in terms of tank capacities, and that there is a huge disturbance in the country's power. I notice that the Council of State Siv Jensen does not answer the question. It was a defense insurrection in the Progress Party where it was required to reach the 2 percent target as soon as possible and no later than 2024. Now the government in which Siv Jensen is a finance minister has notified the Stortinget that the proportion to be defended will fall in the coming years. I think it is not the Minister of Defence who is enthusiastic about it, it is the Minister of Finance who has obviously tightened the screw. Could Minister of Finance Siv Jensen reassure us defence friends here in the Stortinget that Frank Bakke-Jensen will receive greater appropriations, so that not the proportion that goes to the defense will go down next year, but go up in accordance with what was the Country Council decision of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1668	I can assure the representative Schlagsvold Vedum that the ambitions of the Advance Party in achieving the 2-percent target are firm. The government has also made it clear, even in international forums, that the ambition to achieve the 2 percentage points is there. I agree that in many places in the whole country there are significant challenges on the defence side. This is due to many years of lack of investment, many years of lack of priorities for Norwegian defence. It was the Center Party army leader for, to say it a little cautiously, over eight years in government. Now that development has turned around. Now we strengthen the defence budgets every year. It takes time to reverse a decline that lasted eight years, but we're in good shape. It's about securing our defense. We're just doing that by having a predictable escalating of the investments to the Defense. That's what this government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1675	I noticed in the statements of the Council of State that she insisted that the fight against child poverty is not over. That's good news, all the time on this government's watch has been an increase in kids growing up in child poverty – from 92 000 to 98 000 to 101 300 kids growing up in poor families on this government and Finance Minister Siv Jensen's watch. The question then arises whether the government intends to present more measures than we can find in the government statement, in fact to ensure that we change the situation of these families. Red Cross has, among other things, Criticised the government’s commitment to child poverty in order primarily to alleviate the situation of families, not to change it – do not make these families more routed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1683	I am glad that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we need to reduce child poverty, or the number of children growing up in poor families. It's a complex challenge. For example, this is a case in point. on many families where parents do not have income-intensive work. For example, this is a case in point. on many families that are very poorly integrated, which also helps to keep parents out of work. This is why it is so important when the government has the ambition to launch an inclusion vigour that will enable more people to come to work, and not least to facilitate an integration promise that helps more people learn the Norwegian language and can participate in Norwegian society. These are absolutely crucial assumptions. Then, throughout the last period, the four cooperation parties agreed to take action that allowed children in low-income families to participate in kindergarten at a low cost or free of charge. These are actions that we have now said should strengthen the platform and extend to several areas – key targeted actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1690	In recent months the media image has been influenced by the case ‘cross-border sexual behaviour in social contexts’. The extent of this problem has proved to be very large, and it is unfortunately a fact that alcohol consumption is a trigger when such situations occur. In a survey carried out by the Institute of Public Health in 2016 on alcohol use in the labour market, 29 p.m. they asked that during the last year they had experienced colleagues as annoying because of intoxication, and 7 pst. replied that they had experienced unwanted sexual attention from drunken colleagues. The policy platform of the new, enlarged, government states that it will extend the time frame for the sale of alcohol both in grocery stores and in wine monopoly sales to 9.00 p.m. 21 six days a week. In view of the attention given to alcohol-related cross-border behaviour in recent months, and research showing the extent of this problem, does not the Council of State feel that timing is exceptionally poor when the government now wants to implement the liberalisation of the rules for the sale of alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1697	What the government has provided on the platform is to leave it up to each municipality to make changes to the opening times, for example: for the wine monopoly and beer sales. I want to remind the representative that it is a personal responsibility both to consume alcohol and not to consume alcohol and to behave in the workplace and in the face of other people. It's not possible to regulate. Then it's still the way – also in this government's platform – that we're building on the alcohol policy that's been in common with the Christian People's Party in the last four years. It has not been modified as a result of changes to the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1706	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough review of the government's economic platform. The Jeløia Declaration states that the oil industry must have ‘foreseeable framework conditions’. At the same time, the left-wing leader, Trine Skei Grande, has promised in the NRK that the government will consider changing the tax rules for oil companies during this government period, in the wake of the report of the Climate Risk Committee. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that the oil tax regime is being assessed during this period of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1713	The State Council of Skei Grande has said – and as the Minister for Climate and Environment has also said – that we should await the assessments of the Climate Risk Committee and then look at how we should follow it up in an appropriate way. That's what it's been expressed for. There's nothing in the government's platform about the Norwegian base tax regime. What is important, on the other hand, is that we are able to facilitate predictability for all industries to operate in Norway. Being long-term and predictable means something if you are willing to invest or if you send that investment elsewhere. We're going to continue to be a significant producer of oil and gas for decades to come. It's going to be an industry that employs many, including in the coming decades, but it's going to be an industry that gives less to the Norwegian community than we expect. That is why we are so concerned about facilitating conversion, getting more legs to stand on, ensuring that it is interesting and profitable to invest in other types of business in Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1722	On the platform, the government writes that they want to work to take care of a society of small differences. But Norway is a country where the richest 10 pst. owner over half of Norwegian wealth, where the richest 1 pst. owns one-fifth of the property, and where the richest one-fifth per million owns almost 10 pst. of the property. At the same time, 100,000 children are growing into poverty. So on the other hand, we get billionaires every year. The 10 pst. The lowest wage has barely had real wage growth in the last ten years, while management wages and share dividends are falling. Does the government really think Norway is a country with small differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1729	Yeah, that's what the government means. I think the Bears Moxnes have to raise their eyes a little bit when he's going to compare small differences in Norway with the developments we see in many other parts of the world. One of the reasons we are a country with small differences is that we have tax-funded welfare schemes, that we have a society in which we believe that everyone should contribute through the tax code to get rights and benefits and be dealt with in different situations in life. It's a force for Norway, and it's, I think, a system that most of us agree with. So there's no reason, I mean, to create the impression that Norway is a country with big and growing differences. No, we're a country with little differences, but we're always going to be concerned about taking care of it by ensuring that we have good welfare arrangements, by ensuring that we have a good safety net that takes care of all people who get into different difficulties through life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1734	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1739	We have received an extended government, and then it is in place to congratulate. I want new and former councils to be happy. They have an important job for the country ahead of them. Then I have to admit that I was a little happy when I could read on the Jeleya platform that the first major challenge that the government is talking about is getting more people working. They are advised to have an inclusion tool to get more people to work, and I look forward to these formulations being filled with concrete measures and suggestions on how to achieve these objectives. There is a lot to say if the measures are just about demanding people to go to work, or if they are able to combine their demands, have expectations, by setting them up, as the Labour Party wants. Similarly, it has something to say to Norway about the freedom of choice of the elderly, meaning better financing and construction of hospitals and rehabilitation of those we have, as the Labour Party wants, or whether it means more privatisation, so that the wallet controls the supply. We have private investors who build luxury buildings with the government's well-being, as the three right-wing parties want their senior minister. For the Labour Party, freedom and opportunities for all will be most important, not just optional for them. So when it's just about the specific policy, I would have expected more. The platform is full of words that evaluate and interpret and general target formulations, while the measures are fewer. However, where one is specific, it is very clear that there is a classic right-wing policy as a liability. Not least in the field of working life. For example, in the last few months there has been a debate on falling levels of organisation. There is something that should concern you no matter what kind of political stand you have, because we have organised workers and employers, is something that is fundamentally positive. It gives us a serious work life. It gives us coordinated paychecks. It makes it possible to fight unemployment in a better way. It gives us reduced differences. It gives us added value. So I think the government should have had strong suggestions for more people to organize, like us. through proposals to strengthen the Working Environment Act in areas relevant to the muscles of the organised working life. Instead, the government is doing two things. Firstly, they will have a real cut in the union deduction when they decide that they will keep the same level as in 2013. It's a really big deal that gets bigger every year. I think this is the only place in the platform where the government is completely concrete about something to be cut. The second thing they do is that they "recognize that many workers choose to be unorganized." It's a very special statement, noting that when the government was challenged by the Christian People's Party to recognize our Christian and humanist cultural heritage, then the government thought its representative no, they couldn't, because it would be 'problematic', according to them. In other words, it's problematic. But that employees don't get organized, so it's not just unproblematic, it's something that needs to be recognised. So we see that the Left in government does not draw the policy closer to the center, on the other hand, a closer to the right. Now there are three right parties in government, not just two. There shall still be a general opening for temporary addition. There is a government platform that does not refer to social dumping. There are no concrete proposals against the ever-increasing use of penthouses, as we see in several industries. It is quite serious, I would say, that the government does not see how large parts of the world of work are developing. Last year, a large-scale operation was carried out in the West and in the Trondelags against the crime of working life in construction sites for private housing. Even if only in Rogaland was almost 10 pst. showed away from construction sites by those who were checked. There were deviations on HMS cards at 45 pst. There is evidence that there is a great job to do, and there is little evidence in the government platform that the government is willing to take this job. Here the government will meet a clear opposition, which will fight for safe, regular jobs, a good working environment and an organized working life. We have several suggestions for treatment now, and we hope to get more numbers for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1756	The Lachmus Test on a Good and Sustainable Welfare Society is our ability to take care of the most vulnerable among us. A society is never better than how we treat those who need us the most. A good society is built from below. Therefore, the government wants to spread power and give individuals, families and communities the opportunity to govern as much of their own lives as possible and to participate in shaping their own future. Opportunities for all and the freedom to live their own lives are only ensured through a fair and sustainable welfare society, where abilities and efforts count more than background and origin. We will therefore strengthen equality in society. Norway should be a country where everyone has the opportunity to succeed — regardless of gender, regardless of background. Our children are the dearest thing we have. Security and belonging are the basis for a good growth. Security and belonging are created by being part of our community. For many, however, poverty, violence, alienation – without the ability to create their own, good life. It affects health, educational opportunities and social life. Children growing up in low-income families must have the same opportunities and the same freedom to create their own future as all other children. Those children shall also live safely. They should be able to establish good friendships in growth. They should be able to have hope, and they should be able to feel valuable in society – in line with all other children. The government is therefore committed to combating child poverty. The fact that parents have a job to do is perhaps the most important factor in avoiding children growing up in poverty. A well-functioning labour market is also essential for each one to realize its dreams and ambitions. It must always pay to work. More people have to stay longer at work and more people have to be included in the working life. It is important for the individual, it is important for the individual family, but it is also important for society to contribute as much as possible to the community. The social security network needs to be strengthened so that fewer falls outside and more are lifted. Welfare systems need to be modernised in order to be sustainable. Why is it so important for this government that we modernise our welfare systems? Well, that's because they're going to hit better, that's because they're going to get to those who need them the most. It is for which the safety network shall be located. Therefore, the provision needs to be improved through new and better ways of working, we need to strengthen skills, and we also need to ensure greater freedom of choice for users. Children are vulnerable and need special protection, care and not least love. The right to safety and safety of children shall always be given priority. The children have the right to be heard, and therefore the government is concerned that child protection and others who work with children must more closely involve the child in important decisions concerning their lives and that their voice should be heard. We therefore want to strengthen early intervention and prevention – all those working towards families with children, must coordinate efforts and facilitate a diversity of offers to ensure high quality and to meet the needs of each child and family. Of course, the most important thing for us who are concerned with good child protection is that the quality is good, that the legal security of the children and families is well maintained. We're going to work to take care of a society with little differences and with trust between people. We want to ensure that Norway remains a society where everyone can succeed and where we can live a self-chosen and safe life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1773	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1779	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on new tasks. It will be nice to meet her in another context. I have a question related to some of the things that the Council of State was involved in, namely equality. In the last period, the government presented a gender equality message full of rich descriptions of the challenges, but very empty for decisions. As a result, the Stortinge promoted many proposals. 14 were adopted, and they were to instruct the government to pursue a better gender equality policy. Now, when the Council of State in its contribution is concerned with modernising the welfare state, modernising the policy, I wonder if we can wait for a clearer and more modern equality policy from the government, and not for an equality policy that draws us back to the last century, as we saw in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1788	I can assure Mr Henriksen that equality is an absolute priority for this government. That's why I'm very happy that we in the Jeløya platform are also clear that we want to triple parental leave because we think it's important to improve equality in the workplace, that we link mother's opportunities more strongly to work, but also that we get equality in the home, and that dad gets to be the boss there. What the debate in the last few months has shown us in terms of metoo is about abuse of power. It's also about how we humans relate to each other, about equality and about equality. That is why one of the measures that I want to work with is precisely to improve the gender balance of management in the workplace, because it will be important for equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1795	I thank you for your answer. This was one of the points. from the 14 decisions that the Stortinget ordered the government to follow up, so it is good that they are at least followed up on one point. I'm going to go to another thing, which is child protection. The Council of State was aware that it was important for the most vulnerable of us to have legal certainty, good treatment and good action. We see that the government has not even compensated municipal child protection for the wage and price growth, and we see the Evening Post saying that there will be an increase in red tape under this government. Does the Council of State believe that commercial child protection providers – which are therefore for the most vulnerable children among us, and to which the community has a great responsibility to manage measures – are those who should be given priority and that they should provide the best professional quality and legal certainty? Does it mean at the same time that the ideals, which this government is phased out, do not deliver good quality or legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1802	For this government there is one thing that is important, and that is to give the best possible offer to the individual child. That's why we're concerned that we have a variety of services because each child has different needs. We want a variety of offers near where the child lives. We want a variety of offers related to the different challenges and diagnostics that each child has. That's why we want to put in place systems where you can tailor a solution that's right for the individual child. Then we are not so concerned about who is offering it. But what I'm going to do a lot of work is that we have systems that ensure transparency, which ensure that there's no possibility that someone can order a job for themselves – that's totally unacceptable – but systems that underpin the main principle of child protection, that the best thing for the child is to be the leading thing for everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1807	Manifest sounds like a honorary word that the government uses in time and without time. As far as vulnerable children are concerned, I wonder whether the government and the state have problems, within the public framework, in providing sufficient legal certainty and tailor-made measures for children, since they have to spend the community's money and let private and commercial actors get money out of the community to run that kind of business. Why cannot the government itself ensure that the public actually delivers the services that the child should have? I believe that what the Council of State has said here is reminiscent of a small declaration of failure on how this government governs public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1812	I thought that the Workers' Party too wanted a variety of services, especially when we look back at what happened under the red-green. When they were responsible for child protection, it was – as far as I remember and with all my reservations – a rare increase in private actors in child protection. What we've seen under this government is that you've taken hold of it. My predecessor Solvency Horne sent out a very clear signal last fall, where she wanted to clearly define the role of the private – what they should be able to do, what they are allowed to do – and clarify the role of the public and private. But I hope that the Workers' Party is also more concerned about how we give the offer to the individual child – that it is good – rather than being most concerned about who is offering the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1817	Congratulations on sending new mail to the Council of State! Among others, SV and the women's movement have been fighting for decades to get sexual harassment on the political agenda. Today, no one can fail to take sexual harassment seriously, at last the sound wall is broken. Sexual harassment is a social problem, and most people finally realize it. Now we are in an historic moment, where we can deal with it and fight it as a social problem through politics. But in the 84-page government platform, sexual harassment is mentioned three times, and in the Council's articles today none. A general description, a reference to an investigation that is already taking place, and a point of preventing it in school is the only new thing here. That's why I want to ask the council if she's satisfied with the three sentences on sexual harassment, and how the government is really going to prevent sexual harassment in school. Will the government, for example, support the SV’s proposal for training in border management and respect, which is now being addressed in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1826	I am very pleased with the question from the representative of the Supreme Court. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister, when she presented the government statement yesterday, said in particular that work on sexual harassment should be strengthened, and that the government is committed to strengthening gender equality. I just came from a meeting in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, where I had invited over 60 different actors who went up to the pulpit and told what measures the government should take in the wake of the Metoo. The government is busy with permanent changes. We're not just concerned with a bluff now, when the media's and society's spotlights are extra strong on sexual harassment. We recognize that this is a social problem. This is abuse of power, and it's about equality and respect between people. Then we have to put in place good measures to ensure lasting changes: there is no quick-fix that solves it overnight, for here it is primarily about attitude changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1833	Thanks for the answer. I am glad that the government acknowledges that it is a social problem, at least in words, but ever since the Metoo campaign started, has, among other things, had. SV repeatedly tried to challenge the government on concrete policy measures. I fully agree with the Council of State that this cannot be done overnight. It's about attitude changes, it's about structures. That is why SV has also made 12 proposals with concrete measures to combat sexual harassment, including: to prevent it in school, which is also mentioned by the government in its government platform. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State once again whether it is appropriate to cooperate constructively in respect of the seriousness of this campaign and to be able to see whether it is possible to reach agreement on the concrete measures that SV is now delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1840	I will answer yes to that question. Now I know that the party leaders had a meeting in Stortinget on this matter yesterday, and as a follow-up to it and as a wish to find solutions across all the parties I sent yesterday an invitation to all the parties on Stortinget. I hope the representative of the Supreme Court will come to a meeting where we can find agreement on the way forward. I am pleased with all the suggestions I received from the more than 60 actors who were attending the Children's and Gender Equality Ministry meeting today early, and I hope that together we can look at what measures we can now continue to work with regarding prevention, management and follow-up. This is about, for example: to put in place in the Student Survey questions about the prevalence of sexual harassment. It is about increasing the knowledge of students, but also about the competence of those who work at school and health care. It is about providing good alert procedures, guidance and enforcement, and it is about raising the gender perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1847	I am very pleased to hear that the Council of State will give priority to the safety of children. Kripos reported earlier this year about an alarming increase in the number of assaults against children and young people, and yesterday the Vice-Policist in the West said what we all fear, namely that we have only seen the top of an iceberg in relation to this cruel crime that affects the most vulnerable in our society. I am very pleased that we have had an impact here on the Storting in order for the government to present a binding and comprehensive escalation plan in order to reduce the incidence of violence and abuse, especially against children and young people. I'm very glad that the Christian People's Party got a majority on the Stortinget for that. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is responsible for coordinating efforts to combat violence and abuse against children and young people in particular, and the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Justice are responsible for their fields. But the coordination responsibility lies in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. My question to the fresh Minister for Children and Gender Equality is how she wants to work with these departments to provide a safer society for more children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1855	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of Bekkevold and the Christian People's Party for having, together with the Left and the former government in the four years that we have left behind, been and strengthened the appropriations for prevention and to follow up on what is also in the action plan against violence and child abuse. Then you can imagine when we saw the statistics that the police provided, that we should at least be happy that more reporters – that is a good sign. But it's very alarming now to imagine the extent we're talking about. This is something that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health are also very concerned about, together with me, and we have already been in contact about how we can work across the board to follow up what is in the plan and strategy already, and how we can together increase the knowledge about preventing it happening, because that is what is our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1862	Thanks for the answer. I am very pleased that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is offensive in his answer. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality continues to have the coordinating responsibility. Or is there any change in the fact that we now have a new government? Then I hope the government will come to Stortinget with matters. Because when we see these cruel statistics and hear that we've only seen the top of an iceberg, at least there's no lack of will on the part of the Stortinge side to put in even more measures to help the children who are exposed to this, and not least to prevent it from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1871	The Ministry is in full contact with, inter alia: to follow up the request decision to which the Christian People's Party was party, relating to obtaining an overview and a report on the economic needs necessary to combat violence and abuse. This work is well under way by the government, and the report will be important in assessing the commitment to the various measures of the escalating plan in future budgets. So I'm glad that at least a lot has happened in this field since I worked on it. We just see the strengthening of the children's houses, we see how to organize child questioning and victims of violence and abuse. I believe that we still have a long way to go in the prevention work, but also to help those who expose their children to this. We need to look at the treatment and measures that prevent children from being exposed to it. And then we also need to spread knowledge in the big community, so that people report when there is a suspicion that such things are happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1878	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1883	The government’s platform continues to ensure a high level of infrastructure investment. It is important both to support active business policies and to support the creation of value-added across the country, to create good housing and labour regions and to increase safety and reduce the environmental impact of transport. Both physical and digital infrastructure work well in developing the country, and it is a foundation for a competitive business. The ability to harvest natural resources, of people's knowledge, in order to transport products to the market is important — not least for a country like Norway. We have turned red-green decay in the four years that went on, to growth in both investment and maintenance. The government platform is proposing to continue the positive trend. One shall maintain it in order to demonstrate that it is taken care of and has a long-term approach that keeps the level of costs down. One shall rebuild to ensure reduced travel time, increased capacity and improved environment. It is also important in this that we arm ourselves and fight against the crime of working life, and that one contributes to the creation of Norwegian jobs and strengths of Norwegian entrepreneurs. It's very nice to be able to look back in recent years, when 95-97 pst. of all contracts in the road sector, for example, have gone to Norwegian entrepreneurs. In 2012, only half went to Norwegian entrepreneurs. And then it's important to have a good balance, so that a developer of transport years that works from the place of production to the market. We've had a much better regional breakdown of appropriations in recent years. In the past it was often Oslo and Akershus who ran away with much of the bet, in a smaller budget. In recent years — with the underlying NTP — there has been a better regional distribution. Oslo and Akershus are getting more now than before, but the biggest growth is getting one in the South, the West, Middle Norway, i.e. where one has important industrial and industrial jobs. In 2018, it is actually the West and North Norway that receive, in dollars, the largest investment appropriations in infrastructure. When someone gives the impression that there is a regionally hostile platform, one has not intervened in either the platform or the policy being pursued. It's important that we develop the cities. For this reason, strong support has been provided for building collective solutions and walking and cycling solutions in urban areas, support for railways between the major urban areas, and the fact that the State is taking a significantly greater share than has been the case in the past. Mobility is important, and finding solutions to the transport and environmental challenges you have, without praising the journey, but rather finding better and more environmentally friendly alternatives, is our approach. We use electric cars and multiple solutions, we have a competition for smarter transport. All of this is about having a positive approach to people's daily travel and not using punishment as the main instrument. We're concerned that it's going to be cheaper to be able to use the roads. By reducing tolls, a made business has a little more competitive, and we emphasise that we should continue to work towards more money for tolls and less for operations and administration. It is also important that we continue the reforms agreed by the majority in the previous enlargement period, in order to ensure more for the money and a larger whole in that effort. The reforms, which the red-green parties opposed, can now begin to harvest the fruits of. New roads provide considerable savings in expenditure and better infrastructure. The railway reform has been better organised and provides – and capabilities – for greater growth for the railways in the years to come. It is important that we now, over the next few years, make sure that the Road Service has more room for action, the opportunity to involve the entrepreneurs in the past, and that we are increasingly using standard and prefabricated units in order to build better and cheaper. But in this, it is also important that we work against the county councils in order to strengthen the county roads, ensuring that one has a better municipal economy, which is already among the best in 20 years, but that one also has better means of coordinating between regional and national. Seeing the export routes as a whole is an important part of this. We have to make sure that the digital infrastructure works. Some have been concerned about a digital class distinction. I fully agree with that. When I went to the elections in 2013, it was just in fear of that. And when we saw that in Finnmark had only 7 pst. of households access to good broadband versus 95 pst. in Oslo, there was something we were gripping. In Finnmark now has 82 pst. access to good broadband, better structured support schemes, and this government – with the platform – will continue to do so, just to ensure that the whole country is connected to the network. Aviation and the coast are also an important part of our collective way of travel, and this will be strengthened in various ways, which we will enter in the years ahead, with good instruments and measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1912	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1917	47 pst. our road network consists of county roads. Most Norwegian enterprises and jobs are linked to a county road. Of course, if we don't cut these roads, it will have great consequences. The industry and transport industries are skeptical of the current downturn. The MEF of the machinery contractors has assessed the socio-economic benefits of stepping up maintenance on road surfaces and road foundations on the very county roads. That report shows that the backlog is rising by 2.4 billion. kr every one year. There is no correlation between the county economic space and the responsibility for half of our roads. When the MEF points this out, the Minister of Transport rejects it as a concern strategy. According to the analysis, increasing maintenance efforts will provide a socio-economic net benefit. Can the council share its thoughts with the Stortinget on how the county council can become a better weigher?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1922	Just growing decline in infrastructure was an important part of the campaign I was running in 2013, in order to reverse developments. We'd seen eight years of decay on both highways and highways. We couldn't have it that way. The government that ruled from 2013 to 2017, combined with the Left and Christian People's Party, to reverse the trend in maturity. The government platform we now have continues this. We have seen a sharp reduction in the maturity of the national road network. We have also increased significantly the appropriations for county roads, far beyond what was in the Stoltenberg government's plan of escalation. But that's not enough. We know that. We have contributed to the good state economy, and it gives greater scope for action, but we also see that there are great differences between the states in how they do this. Some states have given priority to reducing collective rates rather than paving their roads. It's a priority they do, and then they can't owe the government afterwards. But we're going to help you make an even bigger lift on the highways ahead, just like we've done on the highways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1929	I'll come back to the county roads on another occasion. Foreign companies have obtained major contracts for the construction of Follobanen, a construction project with a cost framework of 25 billion. kr and is the largest individual project in Norwegian transport ever. The project is not part of the calculation when the Minister of Transport calculates the percentage of our construction projects that go to foreign entrepreneurs. The Norwegian construction industry is worried. An Italian company has secured two major contracts for the construction of Follobanen. The very company is now under threat of bankruptcy. How does the Council of State think that the close to 100 Norwegian subcontractors who have money outstanding in the competing company can be followed up as closely as possible? What are the consequences of a possible bankruptcy? And how can this experience be assessed against other major projects that are now being published?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1936	A lot has happened here since that question was written. Yesterday, Bane NOR terminated the contract with Condotte. It makes you deal with this. That means that Bane NOR will take over the building manager's responsibility towards these sub-contractors, just to make sure they get paid, and just to make sure that there's progress in the project. Of course, it is unfortunate when someone who has got a contract is struggling financially and has to deposit the years or is unable to deliver it. This happens occasionally, both with Norwegian and foreign companies, but this is – as the questioner mentions – so big that it is very well noticed. Once we've managed, we've been concerned that we're just going to facilitate a serious and long-term approach with good control of the actors that are. Therefore, Nye Weier has been prequalifying all the major contracts they have, and all the contracts have just gone to Norwegian companies. 97 pst. in 2016 and 96 pst. in 2017 of Vegvesen’s contracts went to Norwegian operators. I think we've seen a completely different development in recent years than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1944	The government says they're going to reduce the effort in terms of speed checks on our roads, and they're saying that they're going to go in now to limit the use of distance ATC. This is a rematch from the Council of State of Solvik-Olsen. He tried on this in the previous period as well, but was stopped by a majority of the Storing. It is alarming that we have a government that will not use an instrument that causes less severe damage and kills in traffic. TØI concluded that the distance ATK gave a reduction of approx. 50 pst. of severely damaged and killed. A stretch that the council stopped was the Kompvejen in Akershus, which was referred to as the death mile. There were 13 people who died between 2000 and 2015. After the distance-ATK was installed there, there have been no fatal accidents on this route. What is the reason why the Council of State re-examines technical advice, statistics and a majority in the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1951	If we're going to have a good debate on the government platform, I think it's important to deal with what's on the government platform. It's not that we're not going to have the distance ATK, but it says to limit usage to where it's very useful. It has also been the approach to the state road system for many years. It's not something you use everywhere, but where you don't have other control options, you have to use it. This is why it has been especially in tunnels and narrow roads that you do it — where the police cannot control it. So I remind you that when it comes to the number of accidents, it goes down sharply. When the representative Juvik gives the impression that we don't care, that nothing happens, the fact is the opposite. The effort to improve road safety is in the driver’s seat in what we are doing. There is much of the main reason why we both build more good roads and maintain more of what exists. That's why there's more traffic controls against heavy cars now than it ever was when the representative Juviks party put in government. And they set up some new distance ATMs, but they don't have to be just to fill the state box.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1958	It's quite eye-catching: I'm fully aware of what's on the government platform – and that's also why I got a pick-up – because there it's written in to limit the ‘use of distance-ATK’ – limit from what? It must be limited according to current practice, and the practice currently in force has been established by the Stortinge to be applied to highly unpalatable sections and in long tunnels. That's what it says, and when a writer wants to limit it, it has to mean that one changes that practice. It's quite remarkable that that's really what you're saying. This is nothing new from the Council of State, because that's what he wanted in the last period, but was instructed by this room to have a different policy. Then he has re-committed this in connection with the government platform and unfortunately received a majority with support from the Right and the Left. One cannot escape the fact that this is an effective tool, supported by both police and road traffic. We have statistics for that. Does that mean that we're going to continue the practice we have today, or is a tightening in even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1967	I replied in my previous reply that we are continuing the policy that has been pursued. There is no change in policy, so making a difficult discussion about something that is not a problem, I think is quite strange. But I recognize the debate of the previous four years, where we discussed theoretical issues instead of grasping the concrete things where we would like to disagree. It is true that in the previous platform we had to evaluate the route ATK scheme. It created debate, because someone wanted to have it anyway. We wanted to see that it was effective, and the conclusion was: we're going to use it where it's effective – and I just mentioned it – on very accident-stricken sections and in tunnels. So here I think we agree. Trying to create a counter-representation when the counter-representation is not there makes no sense. We've been more concerned about that if you have an accident route, it's better to fix the road than just to set up a photo box. We often criticized that in opposition, and we've done something about it, and that's why it's also mentioned in the platform. We don't have to pick the simple solutions, we have to choose better paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1976	Governments with toll records say it's going to be cheaper to use the roads. The Right-Fremskritsparte-Government has formed a majority of its budgets together with the Left for several years, and increased fuel tax has been the victory of the Left in several budgets. Now we see in the government statement that the Left has once again got a majority to increase this fee. Can the Council of State say how high fuel charges we can expect in the years to come, with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1981	This is a very typical central party claim – one takes one fee without looking at the whole. If we go in and look at what the Stortinget decided on last year's car charges, it was lower than what the Centerpartie proposed in its alternative budget as total car charges. It is the total cost of driving lists here that is important, because what the Senterpartiet does is that they do not increase the diesel tax, but they increase the annual tax instead – more than they may not increase the diesel tax. That's the point. What I can promise is that this government will have lower car charges than the Senterpartiet has used to propose. In addition, we have had higher road investments than the red-green side has ever had. It is true that the policy of the Progress Party alone has not been given a majority, then we would have been away from the tolls again, but we have managed to significantly reduce the level of tolls. In the last years the Senterpartiet crashed, toll financing amounted to over 40 pst. of all road investments. Now we're at the 30's.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1988	I asked about the fuel charges, and the reason I asked about it is that I think about those who have to use a car, those who do not have the tram outside the door. They are the ones who really get the big fee increase and have to take the call for a government that has become quite Oslo-dominated. But tolls, toll cords, fuel charges – no one will take full responsibility for the policy being pursued. Governments say no, that's not our policy. At least the left has no confidence in the north, they have no representatives, it is not this policy that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e1995	This is – with all due respect to report – very wrong. Firstly, if you think about the districts, it is the West and North Norway that get the biggest investment in the transport budget in 2018. There is a sharp contrast to the policy pursued by the Centre Party, which really centralised investment in infrastructure — look at the figures. With regard to the level of car charges, the Centre Party’s alternative budgets have had a higher level of car charges overall than the government has adopted. So trying to give the opposite idea is just nonsense. The last, the diesel tax: the government does not announce an increase in the diesel tax on the platform. It's a warning, it's a struggle to reduce emissions. If a fee application is required, it says that then each krona in the fee increase will be able to reduce the annual fee. This is the first government platform to say that the total car charges should not go up. One must not be able to use the car as a dairy cow to finance other good purposes. It's actually good for the drivers, even though the Center Party hasn't discovered it yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2002	The construction of four-field motorways is in many ways the cornerstone of the government's transport policy. The councils said last year that he was happy to have several four-field motorways and 110 km/h. In that speech he further referred to the fact that four-field motorways do not exactly create peace in the Middle East, but peace in the homes by people coming home earlier than they would otherwise have done. It is nice that the Council of State gets happier with wider roads, but research shows that wider roads do not produce less queues, and therefore no more happiness in the home. The Research Manager of the Institute of Transport Economics has stated that since the 1960s research in this field has shown that wider roads mean that more people drive cars rather than collectively, and that there is exactly as much queue as before the roads were expanded, even in the longer term. Does the Council of State agree that research largely shows that increased road capacity on already trafficked roads gives more traffic and the same amount of queue, and that increasing road capacity around the large cities thus contributes to breaking our zero growth, as the Stortinget has decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2011	This is research that has a lot of assumptions. My experience is that when I have been driving to Holmestrand for the last ten years, where I have my in-laws, I was very in line when there were two fields. I have not yet been in line when there have been four fields. So it's not right, the research that is. So it's true that research looks at the fact that if you just do something on the road and don't do anything about anything else – nothing by train, nothing by bicycle, nothing by bus – you'll probably get that effect, because one makes it more attractive to create business and move to a region. Then one more blows up the capacity. That's why this government doesn't conduct such a stupid policy that a closest one is assigned here, but ensures that it's a powerful expansion of both public networks, of railway and bicycle routes, while building better roads. It is true that I am very happy in motorways – and in highways and county roads. But if the fight here is also about the railway, the government party left has crushed SV down into the boots a long time ago. We're using 10 billion. kr more on the railway now than the last SV had the hand on the steering wheel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2020	Aviation is becoming increasingly important. A reliable and good flight offer is very important not least in the districts. Avinor is a success story, and today's funding model is based on some good principles, in our opinion. Cross-subsidies allow us to have airports in the districts and across the country. But at the same time, there is something going on, and then I think about the tax-free system. The aggressive and – as we often experience it – the intrusive sale, not least at the Gardermoen, we think it should be over. One solution is to let the Vinmonopole take over the sale. When the announcement of Avinor's ownership was dealt with in Stortinget last year, a majority of the Stortinget, including the Christian People's Party and the Left, said that one would consider letting the Vinmonopolet take over the operation of the tax-free scheme when the current agreement expires. Does the Council agree with the majority that it is a good solution to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over the tax-free sale at the end of today's agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2030	I agree that we should not have an urgent duty-free sale when people arrive at the airports. Therefore, during today's government, there have been changes, especially as one likes to look at the Gardermo, where the path that one has to walk from the streets to the arrival hall has become much wider where there is no tax-free sale. We have also been much more concerned about profiling Norway rather than profiling alcohol and tobacco when you get there. As for who is best suited to sell this, because that's really what this is all about: regardless of whether it becomes the wine monopoly, or whether it becomes someone else, I don't think one will experience the store that is very different. The question is how to channel the money. Here I believe it is important that the job that is now done to see what opportunities are available is done in a good way. I'm concerned that taxfree is part of what finances having a good airport offer in the districts. I want to maintain that, but at the same time make sure that you have shops that are not perceived as intrusive – yes, I share that vision. So whoever's driving it gets to be something we're coming back to. We promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2039	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2044	The 2017 election results provided the basis for a continued non-socialist government in Norway. It was a very important declaration of trust by the voters after four years of joint responsibility for the four bourgeois parties. These parties have now jointly adopted five state budgets, a wide range of important reforms, and at the same time managed an economically demanding situation that few of them knew about when the election campaign started in 2013. When the oil price was halved twice, the non-socialist majority on the Stortinget demonstrated the power of action – through powerful action packages, responsible economic policies, investment in infrastructure and research, by lowering taxes on business, so that more people could secure their jobs, and most importantly, it did not stop implementing the necessary reforms, even if it was difficult times. Now the non-socialist government has expanded with the Left Party. I dare say, at least personally, that it makes the government even better. There were some victories in the statement that came, which would not come without the Left, but which I must say I am very pleased. I have been allowed to work on school policy in Stortinget for four years, and after the election I was placed in the Finance Committee. Then there were many people who said to me, including my own mother: Uff, you're just going to work with numbers and things. Well, it looks a little bit like that. But the truth is that it's wrong. Working for a sustainable welfare society is also to ensure that future generations have the opportunity to live a safe and healthy life and a society where one still has the ability to take care of one another. This is not about figures in a budget, but about people who are so far young children. To conduct a policy that makes a single mother know that her job is safe, and that her housing expenses are not going to go up sharply within a year, is about welfare for her and for her family. When a corporate owner of a corner stone company in the West has been able to tell his employees this year that they now have room to expand and hire more people and not quit people, it is important not only for those who work there, but for the local community, even though it may look a little boring in the Yellow Book. The non-socialist majority who have continued to take responsibility for Norway has done so, not least by pursuing a responsible economic policy that ensures security, predictability and well-being. Taking responsibility for the whole is one of the most important things we do in politics. There is no lack of proposals for spending increases or new, good ideas, but sometimes they have to be balanced against each other in order precisely to take that responsibility. Now, when the Left joins the government and takes responsibility with the Right and the Advance Party, there is a very strong contrast to some parties in Europe, for example. in our neighbouring country Denmark, where the largest bourgeois party will not sit in government. It's a rather dangerous development if there's a problem when someone takes responsibility for the country, when someone also says we're going to get something together and we're going to promote policies for the Storing. The vast majority of European countries would envy Norway when we now look ahead and make policies for the future. Nevertheless, we have some challenges, and if we don't recognise them, and if we don't make policies to solve them, Norway stagnates, and our welfare society is confused. In its platform, the government has pointed to six of Norway’s absolute major challenges, and it is not least about getting more people into the labour market. It's important for the income side of a budget, but it's also very important for the individual who wants to contribute and experience the incredibly good feeling it's that someone says thank you, it was very good, after doing a job at a workplace where one knows that one is needed. It is not just the public sector that has to change in Norway. There the government is already doing a lot. Our private business also has to change. Technology offers new, great opportunities, but also some challenges, such as: that some people in our country who have the skills of which they are proud, who have a career of which they are proud, may experience that the skills they possess are less relevant or even experienced as out-of-date. Then it's absolutely vital that we have a society that says no people go out to date. It must then be possible for more people to contribute and work in our society, and more people must also increase their skills. In the end, we have experienced a lot of different criticisms from the different opposition parties, but also from the same opposition party. When the government statement was presented, the Workers' Party in the media said it was a fuzzy and unclear platform. Now it's very skewed, so we're a very woolly and right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2067	First, I would like to congratulate the government parties on their agreement on a government platform – a platform in which the implementation manual has been replaced by assessments and reviews. The ambitions are weak; there are few concrete measures to reduce the differences between people, but measures to privatise are extensive. The Norwegian model is based on a well-functioning welfare state. It is difficult to see that the government statement has solutions to the major challenges: that fewer and fewer are at work, that fewer and fewer are organised, that productivity growth is low, that differences between people are increasing. The Norwegian experience is that our model depends on many, both companies and people, being organized. Prime Minister Solberg also says that, but does not promote any proposals. Rather, on the contrary, the trade union deduction is frozen at 2013-level. It does not contribute to an increase in the level of organisation. When the Right's parliamentary leader says it's the union's responsibility to increase the level of organisation, it shows that we think differently about the Norwegian model. We think we have a common responsibility for that very thing. It is a quality of the Norwegian economy that we have small economic differences. It increases the ability to convert, and it contributes to productivity. During the period of government of the Right Party and the Advance Party, differences increased in Norway. The richest have received the big tax cuts, ordinary people and families receive small and tax increases, higher child care prices and have to pay more in tolls. The government platform says that the government will conduct a responsible economic policy in which public money use is adapted to the economic situation within the framework of the action rule. It is good that the three parties adhere to the rule of action, which is a security for the Norwegian economy. When the Prime Minister yesterday presented the government statement, the use of oil money was not mentioned in one word, but we have heard the Minister of Finance announce that the last four years of oil money celebration will not continue. The taxes will continue to fall, so how will the government be able to ensure the well-being of the future? We see that the quarterly figures for employment show that an increasingly smaller part of us are at work. The measures to increase the proportion at work are not many, but there are good formulations and some programme declarations. As the representative Asheim said, the prime minister says that the most important task for Norway is to ensure that no one goes out to date in working life. There will not be work for everyone without a working life for everyone. With regard to the specific policy, I had expected more in this area. The value of our future work represents most of our national wealth. That is why we need to strengthen the working line. We need to invest more in empowerment. It will pay off for everyone to work. We have to have a tax system that stimulates work and effort, and then it doesn't help much that only the richest get the benefit of the tax cuts. The Government Declaration announces more privatisation and last week a report from the so-called Hjelmeng Committee, which was to respond to ESA’s claim that public operators benefit from different competitive advantages. The background is public enterprises with tax exemptions and bankruptcy bans. If we respond to what the majority in the sample says, it will be Norway going ahead across the EU to facilitate increased privatisation, and we will give the competition authorities unwarranted power over how we organise our public sector. The government must say no to that. So there's a lot in this report that makes sure we get even more privatisation. We know that in Sweden, companies in the service sector have a return of 7.4 pst, while commercial welfare companies have a return of 13.4 pst. We have to stand up to this, because we don't need any more private companies that get money out of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2084	Then it's a pleasure for the president to want Trine Skei Grande to welcome you to the Stortinget Speaker's Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2089	Thank you very much, President. Didn't you think I had enough fear from before? It's been a little bit unclear to many if it's a new government, but what we can say today is that at least it's a new policy. It is a declaration and a platform that shows that we can become both a greener government, a more generous government and have more social liberal policies. Together with the Right and Advance Party, we have found answers to the main challenges now facing Norway. This means that we will take responsibility for everyone who lives and lives in Norway, so that they can create a good life, and for all children to have a safe and healthy upbringing. That means we're going to take care of the environment and cut greenhouse gas emissions in all parts of society. That means that people will decide how to live their lives, no matter where they live, and no matter where they come from. That means we're going to welcome people who are on the run and come to Norway, and help them create a future here, with a job to even go to the community. Together, we meet the major challenges now facing Norway. We need a green transformation of the Norwegian economy, which can create growth and new jobs across the country. We have to meet Norway's climate obligations, and we have to create a new and inclusive working life where everyone has to have opportunities. We must ensure good welfare arrangements for the future. We're going to fight poverty all the time, especially among children, and introduce an integration promise that allows people who come here to the country to get the opportunity to get into work and participate. It is very easy to recognise the issues on which the left went to the election. There is no doubt that Norway and the world face some major challenges, but we also have the very best opportunities to solve them in Norway. Then, in fact, we need someone who takes responsibility and who leads – politicians who know where they want, who know how to get there and who have the will to achieve the goals we set ourselves. That's what this government will do. The government must take responsibility for future generations, take care of nature, give all young people the opportunity to succeed in life and create the business life of the future and the jobs of the future. It's a task the left goes into with great optimism, but also with considerable humility. Because it's not easy. It is a great responsibility, but a responsibility we are ready to assume. In the declaration debate, we are now showing how, for the future, we are going to change the big grips also in the environment. It is important that the Lofoten, the Vesterålen, Senja, Jan Mayen, the ice edge, Skagerrak and the Mørefelden are kept free from oil activities during this period. But it is also important that we now get a flat CO 2 tax in all sectors, which is escalating during the period, which will be one of the main means of achieving the climate goals. In this agreement, there is a wide range of measures that make me think we are reaching the ambitious goals we have set. It was important for the Left to complete an industry that is still based on keeping small predators in cages — fur animal nutrition. But we're doing it in a fair way, and we're making a fair deal with clear goals, but also with opportunities for conversion, so that people get the opportunity to develop new nutrients. It is wrong when the head of the Workers' Party stands here and says that nothing has been done to give young qualified teachers. We've tripled the bet in over 1 billion. kr in the last few years, but we're going to make sure that it's also in focus in the future. Now we're going to have half-day space at SFO for kids in low-income families, according to the model of what we've done in kindergarten. We want to improve social rights for entrepreneurs, we simplify business, we want an inclusion tool to get more people to work, and we want to accept more quota refugees in addition to the doubling in 2018. It must be easier to obtain work permits for people living in this country. There are also clear social liberal approaches, which, when we divide parental leave into three equal parts, introduce dual citizenship and set up a data protection commission. The sum of all of this we are prepared to take responsibility for. The sum of all of this is the left ready to take responsibility for. The time is coming when we need parties and politicians who take responsibility, who see that not all problems can be solved only with greater public expenditure, but who are working to ensure a sustainable welfare state for the future. We need a government that is concerned that values must be created, and that they must be shared – a government that knows that the state exists for the citizens, and not the other way around, and that will work all the time to give each citizen greater power in his life. For me, there is a greener, rustier, and social liberal government that is on track for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2127	In the VG of yesterday's state council, Skei Grande, she considers it sad that sport does not open up to take money from foreign gaming companies. A report drawn up by Rambøll on behalf of sport states that the liberalisation of gambling policy will drastically reduce the income of volunteering, culture and cultural life. Two out of three parties in the new government, among them the State Council's own party, are in favour of a licensing arrangement in the field of gambling policy. At the same time, it is stated in the Jeløya platform that the exclusive right model will continue, but also evaluate Norwegian gambling policy. And if you want to evaluate something, it's usually because you don't like today's arrangements. My question to the Council of State is: What game policy will the Minister of Culture propose in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2134	The representative from the Workers' Party can take it easy. The exclusive model is set out in the Jeløya Declaration. But I think it is important to have the most facts on the table in the case of foreign gaming companies, and how much Norwegian money goes out through these companies. I think it's important to regulate games. It's important to make sure people don't become addicted to games. It is important to ensure that we have safe means to follow up those who need it. This has usually led to regulation of the market in Norway, as we do in alcohol and other areas, which can bring both joy and great sorrow. I'm concerned that these are markets that should be regulated, and then I'm afraid that we're losing too much money to volunteer with the way we do it today, but we're going to look at that. The exclusive model is going to be fixed in this period, we've established that in the statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2139	I'm glad the Council of State says it. Last year was over 4 billion. spent for good purposes in sport, culture and volunteering from the surplus generated. In 2015, a total of 16 non-governmental organisations signed a total of millions of members calling for a continued responsible gambling policy, and I ask the Council of State to take note of that. My question is: the previous Minister of Culture set up a separate strategy committee which concluded that the Norwegian model of exclusive rights must be maintained, and I would like it very clearly to be agreed with the new Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2146	Yeah, we're still for the exclusive model, as it says in the Jeløya statement. We are still in favour of a responsible game policy, and I think everyone in this room is going to be too. Then we disagree a little bit about how we're going to do it, but I think the Workers' Party is also going to agree with all of the principles at the bottom. I think we all have an internal drive to want to regulate games in Norway. We also want to make sure that the volunteer gets the most money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2152	In the previous period, the Left was part of a larger alliance working to improve our food supply. Yesterday the Economic and Social Committee gave its position on a matter of strengthening soil protection. It was necessary because one had not reached the targets that were set, one was not in line with it. So in this case, the Left is part of a minority together with the Right and the Advance Party, which says that there is no need for new measures in the field of soil protection. Then my question is, does the left victim have his commitment to cultivated land to come into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2159	Now I'm going to promise the president that I'm rehearsing that I'm the Council of State for one field, and I'm not going to move into other people's field. But I'm also the party leader in the left, so I'm allowed to make what values are important to us. And for us, the food soil and taking care of food soils have always been important. I do not know the decision that has been made here, but I know that many measures have been taken to strengthen the food soil, including some measures that we were together about in the previous period. I cannot go into this individual decision, nor in the setting that I do not know about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2164	I took that liberty, when the Council of State responsible for culture talked about fur animals, to think that then it could be in place with a question of soil protection. But I'm going to ask a follow-up question about a matter that falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Culture, namely Sunday-open shops. There's a proposal sent on the phone. At the same time, a decision is likely to be taken in the Grand Duchy today, giving a clear message to the government about the views of the majority of the population. In the discussion on red tape, it may also be a good idea not to use resources to employ businesses and public agencies to give hearings about things that are not going to happen. Then my question is, how will the Council of State follow up the proposal that is now on the table, if it is agreed today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2171	Unfortunately, it is not like this in a democracy, although it seems convenient here, that if a majority opposes discussing something, it will not be discussed. This has been sent to the hearing. We're going to conduct that hearing. Then we take with us the decision that comes, in terms of what we can promote and believe we get the majority for in the Storting. But we can't stop the public debate, we can't refuse people to have opinions in a public change of words. There's been a lot of resources and a lot of work behind the investigation that's coming. It's fair to let people say their opinion, and then it'll be up to the government to consider what we can promote and possibly get a majority for here. So I think it's important to take into account that the industry we're talking about here is a big change industry, which has major challenges right now, for example. related to online commerce. It is not certain that our handlers will look alike in ten to fifteen years as they do today. We can get completely different business practices, and it must also affect the policy we have towards that industry – so I hope it will also be part of the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2182	Congratulations to the new Minister of Culture! Here comes a line about her actual field. Many people are excited about what a new Minister of Culture will do for Norwegian cultural life. After four years as a supporting party with clear primary positions, to put it that way, the expectations of the new Council of State are high. The left has, among others: agree with SV that the public libraries need a national commitment. There's a lot of good libraries, but there's also a lot of quality differences. Does the Council have any plans to take action out of the words and set in motion a stepping-up plan for the public libraries, now that the Left has the power to do so? And then I have to mention one more thing, the copyright law, which is now on the table of the family and cultural committee. The left has repeatedly sided with the artists and the cultural workers and writes about the proposition on their own websites that they are warning against an intrusion of the copyright law. Will the Council of State and the Left take the initiative to change the legislative proposal in order to defend Norwegian artists and the rights of cultural workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2191	First: Thank you so much for your greeting – and then I actually think it's staggering that someone has expectations of me. It's much better than the opposite. As far as libraries are concerned, we have clear wording in the Jeløya statement. I see that someone interprets it as privatization. It's not. The idea is exactly what the representative refers to, that we need to develop new ways of working within libraries. I have to say that I'm very inspired by the latest library message. In this city, for example: think differently about libraries, both in terms of developing their own children's and youth libraries, transparency, the open library, the library library in the mall, and much more transparency related to the dissemination of literature. I think that's good, that's a good thinking. Just look at the figures for Oslo about how many people visit the library on Christmas Eve – it says something about how people use the library, and what place it has in their heart. As far as copyright law is concerned, I hope to have a good dialogue with the Committee in the future and that we will get good solutions. I think we should do that. It's not that big a disagreement it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2202	I would also like to congratulate the State Council of Skei Grande as the new Minister of Culture. The government statement says nothing about linking government policy to our Christian and humanist heritage this time. We know that the Left has programmed that they want the reference to Christian and humanistic heritage out of the Constitution and the school's purpose paragraph, and they seem to have got this reference out of the government platform for the first time. Neutrality is an illusion and hardly exists in any society that we know of today. What is the reason why the Left wants to cut off the roots of our Christian cultural heritage in these official documents, which means a lot to the country and the government of our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2211	This is a criticism of the statement that I think has been a bit funny, because I perceive that very many of the values of which the Christian People's Party is concerned – whether it is aid policy, poverty reduction, and all that – we are further raising. It also states that the Norwegian Church has a special role in Norway and how important it is to Norwegian cultural heritage. There is no suggestion here to change neither purpose paragraphs nor constitution. The Constitution would also be a little strange if a government had opinions about, as there is power in this room. What I think is important is that we have a state that is fair, and that treats everyone equally, regardless of faith, and that respects different expressions of faith. But it is clear that in Norway the Norwegian Church has had a special role, and it is also highlighted in the declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2218	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2223	Some speakers today have been concerned that the government is more vulnerable than in the past with the composition of the Parliament after the elections. I personally believe that it is more important to use some of the debate that Norway is more vulnerable than before, and that some speakers might take it into account when discussing the society we have worked on and in their attacks on the government in general. It would have been a strength if some of the opponents had explicitly responded more profoundly to the principles and announced initiatives included in Chapters 16 and 17 of the platform on foreign and defence matters. There is hardly anything more important for a government than to safeguard Norway’s foreign and security policy interests. But the environment that has created the framework for security policy is moving. Unpredictability of international policies has not been greater than it is now for a long time. The Western social model of an open, market-based economy and law-based international cooperation is challenged by totalitarian trends. The main Norwegian foreign policy organisations, the EU through the EEA Agreement, NATO, the WTO and the UN, have been under pressure. It makes it more difficult to build international consensus and interaction to face global problems together. Strengthening the international organisations and institutions that are just linked to the narrow objectives of self-reliance in other countries will be a more important part of Norwegian foreign and security policy. We see examples of nationalist exclusiveness and protectionist temptations. The small nations, among them Norway, are the biggest losers if international cooperation is replaced by the law of the strongest. It is with great seriousness that we have followed Russia's violations of international law, military construction, threatening statements against two of our Nordic neighbouring countries and increasing military exercises of offensive nature, also targeting areas under Norwegian sovereignty. The supply of Crimea and the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine have demonstrated Russia’s ability and willingness to use military means to achieve strategic objectives while at the same time being willing to break entirely fundamental international legal standards. It contributes to greater uncertainty in the Nordic region and in our neighbours around the Baltic Sea. Impact campaigns aimed at, inter alia: decision-makers and the general public in Western countries are a major concern and a major latent threat to our country too. It will be a more important part of security policy analysis to recognise and expose these campaigns that threaten open democracies and divide international cooperation. Conflicts and countries just beyond the borders of Europe send millions of people on the run. The solution lies, not in uncontrolled migration to Europe, but in stabilisation and development in individual countries. The Government has pointed to the need for action in the neighbourhoods outside Europe in its declaration. At the same time, the Schengen countries must enforce a common regulatory framework and an external border. The Government Platform emphasises that international cooperation on prosperity development is on a safer footing when countries develop their own business and are given market access to selling their goods without meeting customs barriers. Development policy cannot be confined to aid programmes, but it understands what contributes to a business life on its own, to its own infrastructure and to the provision of products and services for which there is a real demand. The government has also realized that we are contributing to a safer Norway when we take care of the world. With the references to the UN's 17 sustainability targets, a run is set forward towards 2030. The Government will take joint responsibility for development, peace and security, human rights and poverty reduction based on a development policy and humanitarian strategy. At the same time, it also underlines the opportunities offered by this work for Norwegian businesses and non-governmental organisations, and how we can take advantage of our own advantages in technology, energy and national research environments. Finally, a call for proposals: it would have been a win for cohesion on the major issues of an important party that the Workers' Party had expressed its opinion on the areas mentioned in the platform, which traditionally have built a broad majority here in the Stortinget. This concerns the active defence of the EEA Agreement, the support for the NATO exposure and the dangers we see in the fragmentation of cooperation in Europe. But one might wonder whether this silence is also due to the consideration of future partners that the Workers' Party must have on the team in order to regain the government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2248	After several years of cooperation, monthly with investigations and now tough negotiations, the Left enters into a historical government, and I'm looking for what we can deliver together with the background of the Jeløya platform. Although the Christian People's Party in this period has chosen to stand without a cooperation agreement, I am sure that we will continue to cooperate well, as we have done in the last four years, including with the Christian People's Party. The Jeleia Platform sets out a plan for what will happen in the years ahead, and how we will create even better framework conditions for business and a better country to live in for our citizens. We know that in the future we have to work more, we have to work smarter, and we have to get more people to work. Some groups are currently totally or partially out of work, and I am therefore glad that the government has announced a inclusion. We have to make working even more profitable, and we also have to cut the income tax for everyone, but especially for those with lower and medium incomes. In order for us to get more people to work, and for those who work to work a little more, we will be able to cut taxes in the future and still have a safe and well-being society that takes care of those outside. On the other hand, it must always pay to work, and one must be paid for the small extra effort. Most people should also be more determined about their own income, and we must give individuals and families the opportunity to shape their own future. People can decide whether their own economy is better than big business politicians and municipal politicians can. Tax bills are also about more than just letting people decide their own income. Tax collectors are a good thing in themselves, and they make sure to move power from us politicians and bureaucrats to those we are here to represent, that is, the inhabitants. In the last four years, we have cut taxes and taxes and made major simplifications for businesses and residents. It shall continue during this period as well, and the Progress Party shall be a pre-tax supplier for both income and home. People shall mark on the wallet that the party of progress is in government. For the Progress Party, one of the most important election issues in this election was to cut the property tax. We started this job in the state budget for 2018, where we added more limitations on the possibilities of municipalities to both print property taxes in the first year, and on how quickly they can increase property taxes on houses and cabins. We also found some ways to remove the machine tax, while at the same time giving good compensation to the municipalities concerned. Already now we see the effects of this tax cut. In the last week Ringeriks-Force announces that they will build and operate Norway's largest data center so far. It is estimated that there will be 150 new annual works in Ringerijk. This shows that with tax cuts we can attract international players and create even more jobs. Government has also announced that they are negotiating with several companies, so I am sure that in the future we will see many start-ups in Norway as a direct consequence of the Stortinget removing the machine tax. But for us in the Progress Party, the fight against property taxes has just begun. The property tax is fundamentally unsocial, and it happens blindly without regard to income, indebtedness or family relationships. In particular, the tax may be an extra financial burden for small children’s families, disabled, single and minimum pensioners. A person is not rich even if he owns his own house or if he has an apartment. The housing of people should be a home, not a treasure, meaning the Progress Party. In the government platform, we have announced that we will lower the maximum tax on property from 7 per million to 5 per million. This means that approx. 70 municipalities have to lower the property tax they charge from their inhabitants. I'm being provoked, but not surprised, when I register the response from red-green politicians to this. They tell us that we have to cut into old age care and school, and that's before they've reduced a single penny in administration, put out a single service or start using the excess they've had in the last few years. For my part, I have never understood why one should first take the weakest, and care for the elderly and school, when one should look at their municipal budgets. But with the majority of the municipal economy starting in the last few years, I have no doubt that it is quite possible to provide good services, even with less property tax revenues in Norwegian municipalities. The property tax is unsocial. There should be no doubt that the aim of the Progress Party is to completely remove the property tax, and with this government platform we are well on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2270	Let me begin by congratulating the Prime Minister on having succeeded in expanding the government and bringing with him another right party in the government. She hasn't quite come to terms with her dream of a four-party government, but the government now counts at least three whole-blood right parties. It also reflects the political platform. I agree with the government that the municipalities are one of the bearers of the regime and the welfare community. Most people in Norway use municipal or county welfare services every day — children in kindergarten and school, young people in secondary education, newly-baked parents in the health centre and older people who need a sick home, need a regular or need care at home. This is why the Workers' Party prioritises a strengthened community economy and an increased focus on good schools, safe care for the elderly and good health services, in front of all the big tax cuts for those who have the most of them. This government is heading towards a teacher crisis in large parts of the country. Then it's the wrong recipe to separate the teachers we have. Then it takes a bet to get more teachers. Earlier today we heard the representative of Greece, who was concerned about highlighting that Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, I think even he said it was the best. The key to that success is that there are little differences between people, and it hasn't come about by itself. It is a result of a will over many decades after World War II to use political instruments to balance unfair differences between people. An equivalent right to education is one of the most important assumptions. The fact that everyone in Norway has the possibility of a free school is a political priority. We have built in this country a common public school, with adapted training for the individual. It's equalizing in itself. The Children’s Hazellift is another example — a public offer with maximum prices that ensures equivalent offers for all children throughout the country, and good preparation for school and the rest of their lives. There are many more examples of policy choices and priorities. The important thing in this context is that what characterises the solutions is that there is universal provision. They're within the economic range for everyone, they're equivalent, no matter where you live in the country, or what other assumptions you have. It gives everyone the opportunity to realize their ambitions and talents and to achieve their dreams and goals – it's not just something they're the few who have the biggest wallet. There are solutions that are good not only for the individual, they are also good solutions for the country, for the community. With policy tools and the use of public solutions, we have built stone on stone to create the best society in the world, the representative of Greece. We have used commercial interests, markets and public solutions to judge unification as an instrument, whichever gave the best solutions. And that's where the government with the three right parties separates teams with the Workers' Party. The statement states that they will ensure a level playing field between the public and private sectors because they will have more private participation in the Community arena. Where other parties have a pragmatic relationship with private operators in the public sector, this government seems to have an ideological approach to the issue. The market and facilitating commercial interests are no longer a means of building a society. It's become a goal in itself. It's about getting a market out of the most possible sectors. It is about creating opportunities to make the most of the money to provide basic welfare services that have ensured social cohesion between people. At the same time as the government does, it is clear that it is up to a race where it will not commit itself to strengthening the local economy in order to further develop the important welfare offer provided by the municipalities, which is the basis for what is referred to as the world's best society today. There are no such obligations in the platform. What exists are opportunities to tighten local authorities' ability to use property taxes to further develop local communities. The government continues on the mantra that structural changes to increase productivity are the way to go, but you don't know what gains it will actually bring. The country faces several major challenges. Many of them have a strong impact on municipalities. It's in the municipalities people live and live their lives. It is the municipalities that are the main player in ensuring basic services such as school for everyone, health care and safe care. In that case, the policy is not addressed to a government that considers welfare services primarily as a potential market place. Then we need a commitment and a strengthening of Community solutions for all, a plan to build the world's best societies further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2293	Climate and environmental policies, which were made by the non-socialist majority in the previous period, have prepared much of the reason for the new government declaration. We will build on a power cap for Norwegian nature protection, a big effort to cut emissions in industry, record appropriations for Enova, offensive measures to cut emissions in the transport sector and a clear international commitment that is being noticed. Never before has a government platform been so ambitious on behalf of the environment. The government statement is clear that we are going to meet Norway's climate commitments, while we are going to convert the Norwegian economy to create more jobs and secure new legs. Once we have a debate on the new government statement, it is interesting to look back on previous government statements. I've done that today. Reading Soria Moria II is really a nice reminder that the long lines of Norwegian climate policy are fixed. In fact, it makes me wonder a lot of the criticism we're used to hearing from the opposition about ‘too little too late’, when I compare Soria Moria II with the Jeløya platform and the civil cooperation in the previous period. It is this government, and not the non-socialist majority, that has carried out several of the objectives of the red-green government, but never quite came to an end. This applies, for example: the objective of using 3 billion. kr annually on climate and forest activity – it is now a reality. These relate to greenhouse gas budgets, sectoral emission paths and to the measures necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the Climate Change Act, for example: strengthening climate objectives, which are now more ambitious and not least more obligatory than before. Nevertheless, I would say that this list of boasts is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that we took the best from the red-green government and then carried on and carried out what they did not get. Because in fact, in Norway, we agree on the seriousness of the climate challenges, and across all parties, there is a willingness to do something about it. For me, there was an emphasis on how much agreement there really is on the main lines of Norwegian climate policy, as the leader of the Workers' Party in his speech here today did not mention climate policy with one single word. I can't interpret it any other way than that when it comes to the ambitions of the enlarged and new, blue-green government for climate and environment, the largest opposition party is simply satisfied with the government's policy. Many who have their daily work in the oil and gas industry were probably relieved when there was a new bourgeois majority after the elections last year. On the red-green side, both the SV and the Green Party will complete the entire industry, and the Labour Party spoke both in the election campaign and afterwards about the need to reassess parts of the tax regime on Norwegian pedestals, such as: the read-back mechanism. I am pleased that the new government platform states that today’s framework conditions for Norway’s main industry are fixed. We need to ensure the industry predictability, so that we continue to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base. At the same time, we should contribute to this industry being able to participate in and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Norwegian pedestal shall continue to be the world leader in everything related to health, environment and safety. It imposes strict requirements on emissions during production and continues to require improvements. We're going to work together with the industry, not against it, like parts of the opposition do. We will therefore continue to invest in research and development in interaction with industry, so that Norwegian oil and gas industries maintain competitiveness and contribute to value creation and jobs for decades to come. Finally, I would like to say that for four years, the Left has marked climate and energy policy as a cooperation party for the government. There is a clear left mark on much of the policy and the broad consensus of the previous enlargement period. Now they themselves are going to be involved in managing and following up on this in government. I think that is absolutely unconditionally positive. Personally, I would like to say that after four years of some tough negotiations it will be nice now to sit on the same side of the table as Ola Elvestuen when it is to be negotiated in Stortinget in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2306	It has been interesting to follow the debate so far. It's pretty predictable, and it's little new from the opposition's side. It almost feels a little bit like an emptying up position. It could have been better with a debate about what the red-greens would do themselves instead of spending their time critically criticising the government and the new platform. I would therefore rather use my post to talk about what the Progress Party will do for the elderly in the years to come. For us, it is important to ensure that everyone is given safe, equivalent and good health and care services throughout the country. That is why I am pleased that the Progress Party on the Government Platform has been implemented to ensure that older people are provided with good and dignified care for the elderly, an elderly care service to ensure that care is provided when you need it, and where you need it, there are enough sick places and nursing homes in all the municipalities of the country when the needs arise. We want married couples who have lived together all their lives to share the last few years even though one or both of them are strongly in need of help. See the municipality of Frogn – they have realized that this is important. It is a little worse in several Arbeiderpartit-steered municipalities that will not provide a joint-owner's guarantee, such as for example. Workerspart-steered Skien in Telemark. For the last four years, the Progress Party has had an impact on the government in order to grant a higher grant to municipalities for each health home and nursing home they build. This subsidy was far higher than under the red-green government. This has helped many municipalities to move around and start planning, repairing and expanding several sites. This is incredibly good and is an important factor for full health care coverage in the future. It is also a paradox that while the opposition's alternative budget wants to remove the pilot scheme for state funding of health and care services, the six municipalities participating do not get the full project well enough – at least the four participating in the state funding. It has actually worked so well that the government plans to extend the scheme with several municipalities in the future. Yesterday’s Lillesand Post read about managers and health care staff there and that participation in the SIO has led to better management information and equal treatment. This stands in stark contrast to what Jonas Gahr Støre said in his speech earlier today that hardly anyone believes in state-funded care for the elderly. Well, there's a lot of people who believe in this project, they're brilliantly satisfied, and they want it to go on. It's the feedback from the municipalities that's in it. It tells me that we're clearly on the right track. The new evaluation report on the project includes: to the extent that the test municipalities have acquired increased competence and professional scope in the provision of care services. One of the nurses says that she feels that things are more put into the system, and that it leads to increased quality of service. I guess we all have to agree that's good. The manager says he thinks it is incredibly fun not to know the economic pressure all the time. Believe me, economic pressure is something that I think most leaders in the health and care sector know about every single day, so here we are on the right track. Unfortunately, in the world’s happiest country, older people experience violence. Violence and abuse against older people in Norway is a serious social and public health problem. According to the first national survey on this topic, violence and abuse in the older population remain an invisible social problem. Why? Older people who have been exposed to violent violence and other serious abuses in the past are also more at risk of violence in older years. Some of you ask why we need an elder minister. To me, it's clear. In fact, the government has taken these challenges very seriously by setting up an elderly and public health minister — a minister to ensure that all our older people will be able to experience happiness. So it's a little nice to look at alternative budgets and record that SV has been taken care of by the elderly. Thus, in the alternative budget for 2018, it is mentioned once, one place in the entire budget that care for the elderly is important. There is an outline in the alternative state budget of SV. We have also looked at the proposals that are being discussed here. I have looked at proposal No. 3 ‘New forms of financing for housing for the elderly may help to reduce the need for sick homes and other forms of care for the lucky day’. It's an interesting proposal, but it could have been elated to know a little bit more about what you're really adding to this, because it's a little bit unclear what's really in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2327	I record that the previous speaker was concerned about not criticising others, but just talking about his own policy. Now this is a debate on a government statement, and then the government may have to bear that the opposition's role is also to criticise. The speaker couldn't help not criticizing the opposition parties, so you might have a somewhat hypocritical attitude to this. There is little difference between what is said about the foreign field of the government platform and government policy in the last four years. There is broad agreement on the broad lines of foreign and security policy – that is good. My criticism is that the government statement largely describes the world and does not say so much about how the government will change it. Before the elections, we were given a review of how the government would give greater priority to foreign policy, in the so-called "road elections" message. I can't see a lot of priority in the statement, as it stands. I am pleased that the government has listened to, among other things: We have established our own Minister for Development. Here are many important priorities to be made in the coming years, and the experiment with a separate EU/EEA Minister did not work, as we warned, and I am glad that the government has changed it. The most striking thing about the government platform is the low ambitions associated with NATO's goal of increasing the defence budget to 2 pst. in 2024. Here the platform is much weaker than the Right and Advance applications. The Jeleia statement says that NATO's goal is to be achieved in the long term. But it goes in the wrong direction. Hill-Jensen admits that the percentage of GDP in defence is going down. In the summer of 2016, the Minister of Defence promised in a written response to the Stortinget – to questions from us – that regardless of GDP forecast, the share of GDP in defence will increase in 2020. She wrote: ‘Depending on the projections and scenarios used, the share of GDP of the defence budget in 2020 will range between 1.58 and 1.71 %. Notwithstanding the forecast, the share of GDP will increase.’ My question then is: Did the government misinformed the Stortinget regarding the submission of the long-term plan in June 2016? After the White House press conference, the US president said he thought Norway would soon reach 2 pst. You can wonder if the Prime Minister informed him that the percentage actually goes down. The Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left participated in the adoption of costly improvements in the Rural Power Plan, but they would not change the 2018 budget. The working party added 250 million. kr extra to the Army and the Home Office already this year, while the Right, the Advance Party and the Left cut the defence budget in the budget agreement – both to the Army and to the Home Office and throughout the defence budget. I expect the government to fully fund the long-term plan and bring back more money in revised form. Another issue where it is necessary to respond to the policy of our closest allies is the Trump administration's decision to refuse support for development-oriented health organisations that inform about abortion as part of their health services. This administration's grip is much more dramatic than similar actions from Bush's presidential period. At that time, the aid was limited to family planning funds. Now organizations out of American health care are being blocked by a purse that is 15 times larger than that of the Bush administration. Here I believe that the government in Norway has reacted too late and too weakly — too late because four of our traditionally like-minded countries, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark and Sweden, together took the initiative of a donor conference under the motto ‘She Decides’, ‘she decides’. Here, Norway could and should be at the ball earlier and be a co-organizer. The organizer countries that were listed and joined the initiative were Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland and Luxembourg. Norway arrived too late. Therefore, in the next few years, we will follow up and press for more money for prevention and abortion. It is far too weak, what the government has done in this area: first cut the funds to the UN Population Fund and then get it back to the 2013 level. Now we need to increase support in these areas to curb the cuts that the Trump administration is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2353	An important element of a sustainable welfare society is a good, safe and well-functioning infrastructure. Modern and efficient roads, railways, airports, ports and shipping together with a good broadband and mobile network mean increased competitiveness and productivity for business. It provides a basis for growth and value creation throughout the country. The right-wing party government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has given high priority to transport in five state budgets and in a very ambitious national transport plan for the period 2018-2029. The 2018 Transport Budget is more than 60 pst. higher than in 2013. It is a historic promise that is continued in this government statement. The National Transport Plan is the Storting’s overall strategy document for the transport sector and provides guidance for action and priorities in the field of transport over the next 12 years. Of course, the government has a clear ambition to follow-up the national transport plan and to ensure a continued high level of commitment to maintenance and renewal, to implement the planned investment projects, to facilitate the use of new technologies and not least to convert to a low- and zero-emission transport sector. A key prerequisite for the implementation of the national transport plan is strict cost control. For too many years, projects have become more expensive than foreseen and their implementation has deteriorated – it cannot continue. That is why we are now implementing many important reforms that will increase cost-effectiveness and offer travellers better. New Veier AS already shows that they can build their portfolio closer to 20 p.m. fairer and significantly faster than initially estimated. This reform has opposed the opposition. New roads have shown that it is possible to think differently. By creating more predictability, inviting entrepreneurs into the projects at an early stage of the planning process, detailing less and challenging established standards, we have increased innovation and innovation in Norwegian road construction. The fact that we now have two important professional environments that build a road leads to positive competition. New roads and the state road system challenge each other, while complementing each other. Then we get more money, and more projects can be realized earlier. The railway reform is in the start-up phase. The organisational structure has been established and the responsibilities have been clarified within a new framework. Path NOR will have a clear responsibility for development and maintenance, while the Directorate for Railways will be responsible for purchasing train services. The first sections have already been offered, with the aim of creating a better offer for travellers, both in terms of quality and frequency. The opposition is opposed, but a still bourgeois majority will ensure that the rail reform is rolled out throughout the country over the next four years. Transport debates are often marked by the individual road and rail sections. The expansion of our airport or our port or the lack of maintenance is important, but in the coming years, new technology will increasingly shape the debate on transport. Digitalisation of society now opens up entirely new opportunities. Reasonable sensor technology, increased computing power and network access generally open up entirely new opportunities. Who had thought a few years ago that autonomous vehicles and ships would be part of our everyday lives? Now it's equal to the vertex. Several want to try out the self-driving concept, and ‘Yara Birkeland’ is under development as the first autonomous cargo ship. Electrification of the transport sector is at a high pace, well assisted by tax relief and other benefits and good grant schemes through Enova. We see that the electric car revolution has set a new standard for emissions from cars. At the same time, electrical solutions are at full speed into the maritime sector. By 2020/2021, as many as 60 ferries may be low- and zero-emission ferries using battery electrical solutions. In addition, a development contract is in place for hydrogen ferries, which can provide exciting opportunities across the maritime sector and create new jobs. We've only seen the beginning of this evolution. The government has an ambitious policy for shifting the transport sector to low and zero emissions. This is not achieved by limiting people's mobility and the growth capacity of businesses, but by ensuring that all modes of transport are converted into low- and zero-emission solutions. That gives us a sustainable transport sector. Our ability to deal with future transport challenges is largely about new technologies. We are on our way into a new era, where new technology will create a better offer for travellers and contribute to more environmentally friendly transport. The government statement takes us a long step towards a more modern transport sector with low greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2374	The Central Party is working for a sustainable industrial policy, an active industrial policy and an industrial policy to secure and develop Norwegian jobs. The government is both looking at and often talking about being careful, but it doesn't help much when a government budget is created by the input method. The last time in the fall, the food industry was charged a fee of 2 billion. kr. Our travel industry has had a sharp increase in VAT. And if you look at the wording of the government platform, there's a lot of evidence that the tourism industry will get new tax incentives in the years to come. There is an incorrect development. It is not to be built under important industries; it is to build up important industries and not to facilitate Norwegian jobs. We've spent four years behind us where every thing that's gone bad has been explained by the oil price drop. Now things have turned around, and in the discussion it is the brilliant policy of the government that explains each increment. So it's not the government's fault that the oil price falls, that's what I agree with, but it's going to be a stupid thing when you take income that it's the government's policy alone that secures growth. The Industry Committee was last week in Sweden and Finland. The countries could also tell about growth and positive developments, which are due to positive developments in the international economy. I don't even think this government will dare to take credit for a positive development in Sweden and Finland, and it's likely that the developments we see in Norway will come from the same conditions as there. In agricultural policy, we have a rather strange attitude from this new government. It is stated in the government platform that one should base the agricultural policy behind which they are known as the non-socialist parties. Here, the government is giving priority to the number of people they want to stick to, and to the number of people they don't want to stick to. I have challenged the Minister of Agriculture twice, and he does nothing but say that it is the common policy of the four parties to be founded. But the reality is that most of the agricultural policies adopted by the Stortinget are a result of another plurality, a plurality of which is the Right, the Advance Party and, in part, the Left are not part. I think it is quite obvious that the government must also take account of that aspect of the policy. Agricultural policy is going to be tough, and part of the agricultural sector that has experienced the government's uncertainty to the full is fur animal nutrition. The imposition of an industrial ban on the production of a product in Norway that is fully legal to translate, which should also be legal to translate, which could have been produced anywhere in the world and in any way – it just must not have happened in Norway – is an industrial policy that is at stake. The right hand side and the forward hand side depend on the left hand side of this case - believe it. It was a Progress Party State Council that first granted State aid to the extreme animal protection organisation NOAH. It was the Progress Party – Right-Registration that cut the district tip for fur animal nutrition. There is a current Prime Minister from Right who, before the 2013 election, said to the NRK that ‘fur is best on animals’. I have a strong feeling that when the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party in the districts fall tears over this defeat, we really talk about crocodile tears. Fisheries policy will also become important during this period, and there is my advice to the government: listen to the Stortinget! We cannot postpone an industry that is so big and so important, because the way we have pursued policies in the previous period, where the government had to draw a big message about a central area within the fisheries policy because they had not done the preparatory work. I can't remember the last time a groceries message was pulled out in connection with a choice, and it's probably because I wasn't born when it happened. My advice to the Prime Minister is to ensure that the nutritionist councils listen to the Storting, because what Norway needs is a broad consensus, and it does not happen when a bulldozer policy operates; it happens when one is willing to listen more than to talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2399	The school and kindergarten should give everyone a chance to succeed. This morning, parents all over the country sent the most valuable thing they have, their children, to you. At the same time, tens of thousands of teachers, health sisters and environmental workers went to work to use their commitment and profession for our children. For us in the Workers' Party, education policy has always been important, because it is about giving people the opportunity to create a good life. Education is essential for getting more people to work and for meeting digitisation and other major changes. Education is the answer to the really serious issues of our time, such as the climate crisis, increasing disparities and the welfare state's future. The working party wants a school that sees the whole student, a safe school where everyone experiences mastering and sharing, because that's how we learn best. We want a school that gives time for learning, and that gives confidence to the teacher and the others who work there. After four years with the Right Party and the Advance Party in government, the challenges are in line in school. Nevertheless, the enlarged government shows little willingness to renew school policy and does not address important problems. In the statement, I see no new solutions for a more practical school, for increased efforts against bullying or against apostasy. Today, about 50,000 students are subjected to bullying. Every fourth student does not complete secondary education. We have a major shortage of skilled workers and others with more practical training. Too many children and young people get sick from stress and stress at school. So we know that early work starts in kindergarten, and that the most important thing to improve quality is more qualified adults. Where the government proposes a minimum rate of growth in the proportion of kindergarten teachers, the Workers' Party will propose that at least half of the kindergarten workers be educators. We suggest 3,000 more teachers in school, more intensive early learning through a reading, writing and computing guarantee and a more practical school. We propose much stronger efforts against bullying and harassment. We want a healthy school meal and physical activity at school, because health, nutrition and learning are interrelated. And we're proposing a professional billionaire for better equipment and more practice early. Unfortunately, the declaration continues to give the impression of a slightly debatable government not leading school policy. In recent years, more and more initiatives have been taken by the opposition in Stortinget. The government parties have been opposed or uninterested, but have had to follow suit on a case-by-case basis: teacher norm, digital strategy, early efforts, competence reform, lucky facials. There are many examples. The new government does not use the ability to equip Knowledge Norway for the future. Perhaps the biggest issue in the last six months — the teacher’s norm — was adopted against the will of the Right Party and the Advance Party. The statement does not even mention it, as it were, eye-catchingly. The signal to the country's teachers is that the drag fight continues. The government has opened its eyes to increase teaching shortages. As former rapporteur, I am concerned when the government statement ignores the need for teachers, does not mention the teaching standard decision and lacks concrete measures to recruit more teachers for school and kindergarten. The right did not have the funds for a single new teacher in his draft budget. The working party had 3,000 more. $200 million budget agreement. kr until increased teacher's density is far from sufficient. Many municipalities will have a large extra bill if the teacher’s norm is not fully financed. We already know that many municipalities are striving to meet the recruitment standards in kindergartens, because there is no extra funding from the government. Many already have a hard-pressed local economy. That is why in the Labour Party we proposed far more to the municipal sector in our budget, because we prioritise children, kindergarten and school high. We're for more teachers and a standard of teacher's density. If the Christian People's Party had negotiated the teaching norm with us, we could spend time agreeing on how we best succeed with the norm, instead of arguing about whether it should be introduced, which has now happened. We in the Workers' Party hope that the platform is not a warning that the Right's original resistance to the teacher's norm is coming forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2420	Right wants broad civil cooperation, and I am very pleased that we now have an expanded government with a civil platform. We got a lot in the area of health in the last period and are well equipped to continue the work. There is broad support for the main lines of Norwegian health policy, and it is now up to us in Stortinget to manage this further. Soon we will be able to mark Erna Solberg as the longest-seated Prime Minister of Right, but Bent Höie is for the longest time the Minister of Health in Norwegian history who has been sitting the longest. This shows that our health policy is broadly anchored and that good policies are provided every day. Large oil revenues, low unemployment and high professional participation enable us to provide world-class healthcare. If we are to maintain our common healthcare, we need to be willing to make changes to adapt it to a new era of new challenges. It is our duty to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. This isn't just about money. It's primarily about good heads and good hands. It is about working in new ways, including: by using new medical knowledge, using technology, interacting better and mobilising patients’ own resources. Today we are debating a new declaration of government. That's right, because the government has already fulfilled a lot of the Health Chapters of the Health Declaration. The new declaration is not less ambitious and will continue to address the challenges of tomorrow. Health services in Norway should continue to be based on the patient. Patient’s healthcare is established as a concept, much thanks to an active health policy. We're going to create the patient's healthcare, and each patient is going to experience respect and openness in dealing with healthcare. It should be such that no decision about you should be made without you. Patients should also avoid unnecessary waiting time and health cows should be further reduced. In the last year, all healthcare workers have worked hard to achieve this goal, and this has resulted in the average waiting time for healthcare for the first time being less than 60 days. By 2021 it shall be less than 50 days. At the same time, services need to be improved through new and better ways of working. We need to strengthen our skills and give users greater freedom of choice. Therefore, the Government Platform highlights the importance of cooperating with different actors, contributing to innovation, diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the provision of services. The quality of services must always be more important than where those supplying them are employed. At the same time, it is important to stress that ensuring good health and care services for all is a public responsibility. The supply of the most vulnerable, in particular in the area of drugs and psychiatry and sick elderly, needs to continue to be strengthened. People who have lived a long life and who now need help must also have a life of purpose and dignity. The government will ensure a good and dignified care tailored to individual needs. Welfare technologies need to be more widely used to improve the quality of services. The offer needs to be further developed in order to provide all those who need it with a quality and activity offer. The ‘lifelong’ parental reform must therefore be implemented, because we live longer. And this year we're back among the top ten countries in the world in life expectancy. Health and care services in municipalities need to be modernised and strengthened. It must be worked for a comprehensive and coherent offer tailored to the individual’s needs. The proportion of older people in the population is increasing, and more and more have chronic diseases and complex care needs. This increases the pressure on primary health services. The government will ensure all access to a competent and well-organised primary health service wherever you live in the country. Another thing worth mentioning is that this is the first government statement in Norway that has its own part devoted to the role of its relatives. For relatives, a resource is a resource, and during the period the government shall present its own related strategy. There is a need to clarify the responsibilities of municipalities to ensure user and related involvement. This government wants to take relatives more seriously in all parts of the treatment chain. It is not sustainable for many relatives to be burdened with health, career and quality of life. Many people are sickened for longer or shorter periods because of the stress it is to be related to. If we are to continue to have a world-class health system, we must prioritise harder in the years to come. We can't say yes to everyone and meet any playoffs with promise of more money or new arrangements. During the previous period, the prioritisation message received broad support here in the hall. We agree on the principles of priority in healthcare. That consensus must be taken into account, and I therefore look forward to constructive cooperation in the Storting in order to ensure a sustainable welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2450	First of all, I want to say that I'm happy to be back at Stortinget, and I'm happy to work for a safer society from this point of view. Judicial policy, which places the needs of victims at the centre, has always been important for the Progress Party. I am pleased that the Progress Party in the Government has strengthened the rights of the victims of crime in particular. We have removed the limitation period in criminal proceedings for killing and serious offences, increased the penalties for violence in close relations from 6 to 15 years, put in place a national victim care centre with support offices for crime victims in each and every police district and more than doubled the appropriations allocated to children's homes. Stine Sofie's Foundation is in the state budget, which has already helped more than 500 ill-fated children, and we have provided funds and priorities for child abuse online, cf. The ‘Dark Room’ case. This has been important issues for the Progress Party in opposition, and now we have been in government for four years and have had this implemented. But we're not done. This work is so important that I am pleased that the government statement is now so clear that this area must also be strengthened in the future. The fact that one in ten is raped, but not reporting from or seeking help, is worrying. It is therefore important that we step up efforts to combat rape and increase police competence in this area. The establishment of victim care offices throughout the country, as I said, has been an important task for the Progress Party, and it is now in place. When we know that these victim care offices will be able to follow the case right from the time a reporter reports a case, and until one has a verdict in one case, I hope that this will help to ensure that more victims can take that step and seek help, report and get help all the way. Changing the penal code so that custodial offenders can't get out of prison sooner than they had had if they had received ordinary prison sentences is also important, and investigating a crime victim fund according to the Swedish model, where it is the offenders who have to pay a fine to a fund, and that these funds should go directly to measures that can help victims, is part of what the Progress Party has been talking about for many years. Now it's come into this platform and it's something we're going to work on. In recent times, we have seen several issues where women and children live by code 6. I've met some of these and heard their stories – also that it's not just this one sitting on code 6, who has to escape from an attacker, but the whole family, especially all the children living in the families that are being attacked. I am pleased that we are now getting in place and working more for the reverse alarm, because it is important that we see the women and the children who are in this situation, and that they are the ones to be cared for, not the one who has done the action. If you're going to be able to do all this, we need a reinforced police force. Over 300 new police posts have been created each year for these four years, and in total, the Solberg government has provided about 300 new police posts. 1,300 more policemen than it was in 2013. In addition, about 100 new positions have been created in the prosecution authorities, so there are now more police officers than in 2013. It's important. We're going to continue working on the police reform, we're going to continue to increase the number of police officers in order to achieve the goal set, and we're going to strengthen the police's capacity and competence in combating important data crime, in order to also increase the police's presence online. But everything is related to everything. We also need to strengthen the courts. It's not enough for the police to take those who do a criminal act. The courts must judge, and there must be places of restitution when a judgment has been given. I have spent a long time in the debate on settlements in the Netherlands. For some parties, it seems like the most important thing is where you zone, and not that you zone. I am very happy that we have managed to reduce the pay queue by using the seats in the Netherlands, but I am also pleased that we are now building up capacity here in Norway and are going to wind up those parking lots. The most important thing must be that those who have committed a criminal act should pay for their punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2469	The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good health and quality of life for all and that prevents disease. It's about who we are, and who we want to be as a community and as an individual. We want one healthcare service, where the foremost of medical expertise is available to everyone. During this ageing period, the Workers' Party will continue to work for our common healthcare. We will work to ensure that children, young people, prevention and public health receive as much attention as hospitals, waiting times and treatment of various diseases. And we're going to work for an older policy that makes older people the boss of their own lives, and that provides health care and care services well adapted to the needs of the individual. Older people’s policies must be based on the fact that older people are a diverse resource, and we need to turn the attention of older people’s policies from just dealing with nursing homes to dealing with different housing options for older people who need our health services. Then we have to turn the focus from disease to mastering and quality of life. Everyone has to feel safe that one is being taken care of when one experiences that life becomes more difficult because one grows old and when the disease strikes. And we in the Workers' Party are not waiting for the government to ensure a safe and good old age for our older people, neither we who are politicians here on the Stortinget, nor Labour Party politicians around the municipalities. Yesterday, the bulk of the population showed a different direction than the Solberg government, that is, in the future. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party equate investment grants for nursing homes and nursing homes with upgrading and modernisation of old buildings. Many municipalities need this flexibility – to convert double rooms into single rooms, to install more bathrooms, etc. And today, the same parties also promoted proposals for more and new forms of housing for the needs of the future. The working party and an overall opposition are also behind the majority who are now increasing their contribution to establishing good day-to-day activities. 50 pst. of the costs will now be taken by the state, and we need to expand this offer for the great need we know is there. For relatives, and for those who experience that parts of their lives are missing through incipient dementia, a daily activity offer is pure gold and can make the whole difference between a thing and a difficult life situation. It's a majority of the Storting opposition that's been in the driver's seat for one of our greatest challenges in the future: to convert us into a changed demographic with the elderly, to develop and improve health care, to prevent disease and to ensure good health and quality of life for our elderly. The Right Party and the Progressive Party do not agree on the elderly policy. The Progress Party will have State governance of care. That won't be right. And as a patch on the wound, the Progress Party has had an experiment in six municipalities, which swallows resources. This is a test with six municipalities – but we have almost 400 municipalities! What is it? In addition, the right-hand side will not grant grants other than new health places. They will not modernise or replace completely outdated spaces or ensure that double rooms are converted into single rooms. This is also across the agenda of the Progress Party. It is well documented that prevention — and in particular the broad responses that reach all — is what provides the best health, the most money again and the greatest welfare gain. We in the Labour Party are ready to get a majority for a forward-looking health policy that prevents, provides opportunities and not just repairs, an elderly care that is tailored to the individual's needs, an elderly policy that takes a vital, growing group of active older people, and not least an economy for our hospitals that enables them to apply new, good and gentle treatment methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2489	A fair and sustainable welfare society is essential to ensure all the possibility of living a free, safe and independent life. Nothing means more to people's ability to live a free, safe and independent life than to be self-sufficient and live on their own income. Now there are brighter times in the Norwegian economy and in the labour market. We are pleased, but we must remember that it is not enough alone for those who are struggling – young people with low skills, immigrants or people with disabilities – to get to work more quickly. The inclusion of vulnerable groups is more important than ever before. Especially young people who are struggling to get a foothold in their working life worry me. They should have a whole and long working life ahead of them. Young people must be motivated for education and work, not for social security. We must ensure that those on the outside of the labour market because of lack of competence have the necessary qualifications to enter. At the same time, we must ensure that those in the labour market have a good offer of skills development throughout their working life. This is why the government will launch a reform of competence. A sustainable welfare society is not just about economics. A sustainable welfare society is also about social sustainability – including everyone in society. This is a big and demanding task. Trust in political institutions can be challenged if many people feel outside and unvalued. A sustainable welfare society must be a project for the whole of society. The government therefore invites the inclusion of more people into the labour market. The public cannot and cannot solve the inclusion job alone. Employers have a particularly important role to play. The government will therefore make it easier for employers to include people in the labour market. Three weeks ago, the government appointed an expert group to provide analyses and evaluations to increase employment. The government will also strengthen efforts to reduce sick leave. The IA Agreement has not met our expectations in all areas or in all sectors. The Government will therefore review the objectives and instruments of the agreement with the parties of the remaining time of the current contractual period. The value of work is well-being. Life at work robs society and society for billions every year. Labour crime weakens the sustainability of the welfare society, undermines the labour market as the inclusion arena and threatens the competitiveness of serious enterprises. The government spends a lot of resources fighting the crime of working life. It is the total commitment of the control authorities and social partners that can get criminals out of play through prevention, awareness-raising and detection. The government will assess increased penalties for crime at work, and we are already doing that work. Safe jobs are also about how we feel at work. It is serious that a large number of people experience harassment, including sexual harassment, and in particular this is a major problem in the health and care sectors and in the outdoor sector. All forms of harassment and discrimination are unacceptable. The government's objective is a safe and well-organised working life, where most have permanent, full-time jobs and experience a good balance between work and leisure. Norway has good opportunities. Raising ourselves for a sustainable welfare society into the future is not free. Everyone has to contribute here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2513	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on its renewed confidence as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and, yes, myself as a new member of the Labour and Social Committee. For our work area, the most important thing is to create the sustainable welfare society that we all want. It is through more people in work and fewer in social security that we achieve a good society, both for the individual who is taking advantage of their opportunities, and for society, which depends on the greatest possible amount of work being done. I noticed that the Right parliamentary leader in a line change at the start of the meeting claimed that my party is opposed to what makes the welfare society sustainable. There's a story in line with pure imagination. Just take the pension reform: this year we're saving 30 billion. kr over the State budget. The main reason is that several older people are longer in work. Since the Right is attacking the Workers' Party on this, I am very excited to hear the Government's plans for reforms that over the next ten years may have the same effect on the labour market as the pension reform has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2520	Thank you for your warm greeting, and I would like to reiterate: congratulations on the seat of an important committee. I look forward to good cooperation. Yes, we are planning more reforms. Perhaps the most immediate thing now is to complete the pension reform that was not completed under the Stoltenberg II government. We are now negotiating with the parties, and I hope we get on target, so that the pension reform will also apply to public sector employees. But we have to get back to that when we hopefully have a final result there. We have said very clearly in the government platform that we now want an inclusion tool to ensure that even more of those on the outside of the world of work come on the inside. We want a great commitment to integration because we see that too many of those who have come to Norway as refugees are not integrated into Norwegian society. Too few of you, among others. At work, and this is something we're going to work even more on, and especially in my area. And then there are reforms in the other sectors that other government councils can explain. But the ones I mentioned are among the most important in the social sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2529	Yes, I heard lift and skill and fine words, but get concrete reforms and plans to strengthen employment and reduce the differences. On the contrary, in the government platform it is black on white that in the next four years it will also be more expensive to be an organised worker. The falling level of organisation is a long-standing trend for which today’s government obviously does not bear the full responsibility, but it does not mean that it is a good idea through political decisions to reinforce the trend of an unorganised working life. Today's government even writes in its platform that they recognize it to be unorganized. The government has many fine words and formulations about a safe working life and increased employment. But these words are not worth the paper they're written on, as long as the Council of State promotes the unorganized working life year after year, both in its platform and in its budgets. Therefore, I wonder: does the Council of State have any concrete plans to promote organised working life, which could perhaps weigh a little off the strengthening of unorganised working life by the government platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2536	In Report. St. 29 for 2010–2011, promoted by the previous government on 26 August 2011, that government also recognised the unorganised working life and the freedom to organise wherever you want and if you want. The only difference between the wording of the big message and the government statement is that it is in the news in the big news. Otherwise there's no difference in reality in this. Then I'm busy that we're also going to have an organized working life. In particular, it is for the authorities to facilitate good tripartite cooperation venues and to involve the parties in matters and issues of particular importance to them. The government has a number of arenas where we are just involving the parties: the government's contact committee, which is led by the Prime Minister, the Employment and Pension Policy Council, which is led by the undersigned, and a number of other arenas in which we involve the parties. Then it is important that we are now able to create more jobs, be able to secure jobs, be able to convert Norway for the time we are now in, so that we get more legs to stand on, and it will also contribute to increased employment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2543	I thank the Council of State for the answer and also hope that we can have a majority for cooperation on proposals that actually strengthen the level of organisation, not only strengthen cooperation with organisations, which are obviously also very important. For the past six months, the opposition has promoted a number of proposals that have been given a majority, against the votes of the government parties, and as the pragmatic person I am, I'm still going to tip the Council of State over a matter that can have a majority with us, the Workers' Party, which will improve equality and get more people to work. Cash support has been granted during the 20th anniversary of the year. It is not mentioned in the government platform, and with it, the Stortinget and the government have a unique opportunity to cooperate on a case that will get more people working, provide better integration, and – yes – a more sustainable welfare society. My final question today is: Is the Council of State willing to work to phase out the cash support in the long term, so that the work line is maintained and strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2552	Regardless of the block with a majority in this assembly, much indicates that the cash support will consist of some kind of variant. That's enough, and then the representative Knutsen and I can work on each of our fronts towards the respective parties to possibly change those positions. As far as the level of organisation is concerned, it is important, as I said, that the government and the authorities facilitate good cooperation with the organisations, and that they can contribute to matters that are important to them. But it is also important to remember that organisations must be involved and make themselves relevant to new members. Here the organisations have an important task. I noticed that Agenda had an article in which they also partly criticized some organisations' way of meeting new members. It is important that, in order to improve the level of organisation, administrations contribute, but also the organisations themselves need to make sure that they are relevant in their meetings with new members, in order to see the value of enrollment. For Norway it is important to have a high level of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2559	Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act states: «Worker is to be hired permanently». It is no coincidence that permanent employment gives employment obligations, and thus gives it an obligation to pay, and it provides security of income. This is an important prerequisite for family safety. It's a basic context. What we now experience is that employment in employment agencies, with unsafe employment contracts and no income security, is spreading in more and more industries – construction, transport, trade in goods and health. In the evening post on 22 January, it says: ‘The hospital hires temporary workers for 900 million a year. Federal leader Eli Gunhild City in the Norwegian Nursing Association believes the figures show that access to hiring is misused. – Renting is legally meant to be a temporary solution, she says.’ The centre party is in complete agreement. My question is: does the Council agree that renting under the Working Environment Act is intended to be a temporary solution and to meet the needs of companies for temporary workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2577	I agree with the representative, Mr Lundtigen, that permanent employment should be the general rule, and that is also the general rule. The vast majority of people are permanently employed, and so should it. At present, there are different possibilities of temporary employment, and there are different conditions for temporary employment. Now we see that the number of temporary jobs actually goes down, according to the AKU numbers. We see that the number of full-time jobs goes up. The government took an important step in the last period when we tightened up the law on the state's employees, where we limit the country's ability to employ temporarily. Unfortunately, it is largely in the public sector that some of these forms of employment are widespread. As the representative Lundtigen knows, we have sent several proposals to the hearing to limit the use of rentals. We'll get back to Stortinget with this, hopefully in a short time, in the form of a proposition, to put constraints there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2586	I did not get an answer to the question. I agree that there are different possibilities of using temporary employment, and there are different possibilities of using temporary workers today. Temporary employment is regulated by the Working Environment Act § 14-9. But my question was about the recruitment agencies, as Eli Gunhild By says, is being abused because renting according to the law was supposed to be a temporary solution. Does the Council of State agree that renting under law is intended to be a temporary solution, or is it intended to replace fixed-term employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2592	In the first place, you rent in either if there are real vicariates, or if there are peaks and seasonal variations, like you. look at primary industries and construction. Otherwise, it is the general scheme, which allows you to rent temporarily as well – what is relatively the last. In principle, rentals are to be used as a derogation, not as a substitute for fixed employment. The government has now tightened up the country's ability to employ temporarily. We will also make proposals to limit the use of rentals, of which we have seen part, perhaps primarily in the construction industry in Oslo. But there we haven't concluded yet, so we have to get back to that. But the general rule is to be fixed-term employment, there are also fixed-term employment, and we see that the use of temporary employment actually goes down, and full-time employment goes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2599	I thank you for your answer. What the Council of State says is that rents should cover peaks. We in the Central Party agree on that. Topper is temporary, and it is according to the Working Environment Act § 14-9. In the case of manning companies, the reference is § 14-12 [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2604	I have to ask for an understanding that I can't explain which homes have been used by health companies. I almost have to assume that healthcare companies are using their homes properly. The law allows temporary employment on different types of terms and conditions. We've seen a number of cases in the last few years where this is being tried in court, and where it turns out that someone's been using it in violation of the law. There is some background to the fact that, in the proposals we sent to the hearing before the summer, we have taken on board a part of the case law that has gradually come into this area – to clarify, among other things. fixed employment, because we see that someone is using this completely erroneously. We want to make it clearer in the law. We believe that it must be possible to rent in case of need, but we do not want the size we have seen in some industries, especially in Oslo. That is what we have tried through the consultation proposals to put some limits on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2609	It says in the government platform that the government will work for a full-time culture in working life. It sounds very good in my ears, but I'm very curious about how the Council of State thinks about this. Can the Council of State mention what it believes may be good measures in this area, without explaining itself in terms of the results and studies? Does this mean that you will make clear instructions to healthcare professionals to fix this, or can it mean better work environment legislation? I think that the Council of State has some personal thoughts about what can be good action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2614	I think we need to combat part-time culture on several fronts. Unfortunately, too many people work part-time on a voluntary basis. I think it's important to reduce all forms of part-time. It is, of course, important for the sustainability of society. It is also important for individual workers because they will be much weaker later in life if they are based on part-time jobs. One of the things you want to do is to: have a significantly lower pension if you have worked less than if you work more. All employers have a responsibility, not least in the public sector, how many part-time jobs are, especially in the health and social sector. The municipalities are also important. Things like the government, among other things, Before the summer of last year, it was to send out a consultation proposal to obtain more full-time jobs, including: by giving part-time employees the right to a higher fraction of the vacancy when the employer publishes the vacancy. You had it this way too, you found out that the Supreme Court didn't agree with us, so we're proposing to change the law, so you can access it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2623	The crime of working life robs society, said the Council of State, and I'm very happy that she says, because that's what we actually need to have on this. It threatens honest businesses, and it destroys the basis for our well-being. These are the great thieves, the real bitches. The Council of State mentioned increased penalties, and that is SV for, but the problem is that when this is addressed to the police, the cases are dropped. It shows the National Audit Office's reports. Increased infringement fees, on the other hand, which the Labour Inspectorate can impose directly – i.e. taking away the money you earn on social dumping and undeclared work, because it is extremely profitable not to pay taxes and have dangerous working conditions – could be a way to go. In addition, a person could restore collective redress, so that the trade union movement, which could dry up in these conflicts, would not dare an intruder to do so, could take matters up to the court. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2628	Combating work crime is a work that needs to be done along many fronts. What we get feedback from the agencies about is that through the coordinated anti-criminal centres, you can now take more than you would otherwise have done, because when the agencies put their respective tools into the common toolbox, they become more powerful. In addition, they learn a lot from each other; there is considerable methodological development in this. What they've also learned is that if you're going to be able to get convictions, the police depend on the fact that the cases are well documented. There are also other agencies that have improved in their efforts to document crime, so that the matter is more easily passed through in court. In a few weeks' time, we will receive the annual report for 2017 from the coordinated centres. I'm excited to look at developments there. What I hear is that work is going in the right direction, but it's demanding, it requires money, homes, skills and international cooperation. We're working along all of these axes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2637	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2642	I would also like to begin by congratulating the Left, the Advance Party and the Right on having found together in a new government and having presented a government statement and a platform from Jeløya, which we have read with great interest. I understood the change of words earlier today between Terje Breivik and the representative Christensen that Breivik believed that they had come together against all odds. It may have been a little less surprising for some of us that this happened, but it has at least happened, and we have a new government that we consider to be a blue-blue-blue government, where the Left has reinforced many of the sides that make the Right Party and the Advance Party to the Right. But they're about it. Regarding the statement that was made yesterday, it says very well. It has many high, good, slightly airy goals, and discussing it from an opposition position is a bit like trying to keep some kind of counterpost to a May 17 speech, and it's not that easy. That's why we also have to use the platform from Jeløia. In fact, the platform from Jelaua is relatively full of ‘assessed’ and ‘examined’ — there are 102 examples of investigation or investigation to be started, but there is also some clarity about what is really going on. In this debate earlier today, the representative, Bru, said that Yeløya and yesterday’s statement were much more ambitious in the field of climate than Soria Moria was in 2005. Now I believe that the Soria Moria declaration in 2005 was very ambitious for its time, because you have to understand this in relation to where you are in international development. I would like to say that there are now many good goals here, and I declare that the Workers' Party is looking forward to cooperating on those objectives, but one must have a level of ambition that is proportionate to the fact that we now have the Paris Agreement behind us, we have clear commitments – we have obligations we have to fulfil with others, and we have obligations we have to fulfil on our own – and in the forthcoming debates on these issues we are going to have a very thorough discussion on the concrete instruments. The field that I wanted to mention specifically is carbon capture and storage. I see that the Jeleya platform is in many ways less ambitious than the Sundvolden statement was five years earlier. There are several reservations built into this statement, and it amazes me a little, especially because the Left is included. I believe that it is of paramount importance that we succeed in maintaining and continuing a lead role in carbon capture and storage. It's perhaps just interesting that me and the Workers' Party mean it, but it also means a collective industry, a collective trade union movement and an overall environmental movement. This is extremely important to have clarity around, and we're going to be ambitious there. Then we would like to welcome a number of other things, including: that the tax advantages of an electric car continue, which we also see lay in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget. We welcome this; we expect that the Left has contributed to it, and we recognise this – similarly in some areas of nature management. But we'll see what happens in practice. I also want to say that what we would like to have had something more clarity about is what the government really thinks about the climate risk committee. We've wanted to welcome it, that's a good idea. But we have got a little different answers as to whether it will also apply to the petroleum regime. According to the mandate, it shall not do so. Then we heard State Council Skei Grande suggest that it might eventually do it anyway. It might be a good idea, but it would be good to have a clarity around that, because it's one of the important questions for us. The statement made by the Prime Minister yesterday said nothing about oil and gas and the future of oil and gas. You have to go to the platform to find out more about it. I think it is important that, on the one hand, we send clear signals to the industry that it will be with us for many years to come – it is an important part of Norwegian industry, it is important for Norwegian jobs. But we also need to have an ambition to involve them in the long transition to a reality where they are less heavy, and where other forms of energy and industrial forms stand further ahead. So here's some fancy beginnings. One can be significantly more concrete. The Labour Party looks forward to good cooperation on these issues, because it is important that we who live today are as ambitious and as clear on the long road for Norwegian business and Norwegian working life as those who walked in front of us, when they took us into the society of which we are part today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2661	The representative Barth Eide spoke about May 17th, and it's at a party day. This is really a party day – to discuss a new platform for a completely new government, it does well. We have to go through transformations in the years that come. We're facing a digital shift. Oil revenues will fall. We get more older than 70 years old. Yes, in just 20 years, there will be more than twice as many Northmen over 80 years of age. This means that the need for health and care services in our municipalities will increase. And since 2012 and until today, there are over 80,000 newcomers to be integrated and settled in the municipalities. We have discussed here in the Chamber the need for a municipal reform and the challenges of the municipalities, and it is clear that there are people who do not want this development of a municipal reform, but developments are taking place, regardless of whether the central party is opposed. We are not implementing reforms because we want to change Norway, but because it is Norway that has changed. If we are to have good services where we live, we need strong welfare municipalities. Then we cannot accept that there is one position in child protection. Then the services of the most vulnerable children, the children who need it the most, are gone, the competent employee would get sick, go on vacation or choose to move. Therefore, the government agrees with the Christian People's Party that the municipal reform continues, and we want to simplify and improve. We want to remove earrings and prevent bureaucracy from growing. In short, we will move more power out of the state and into the municipalities. It is the municipalities that know best, not the Workers' Party, not the SV or the Center Party. There is beautiful talk of local self-government from these, but in practice there is a distrust of the municipal politicians that they can control the municipalities when there is an ear-marking gap from the hall here. Immigrant labour participation is lower than that of the rest of the population. Getting more immigrants to work is therefore one of the most important tasks of the government. A sustainable welfare society depends on more people coming into work. We need to implement an integration promise. We need to assess new models for the introduction program in order to get faster completion for those in the program. The combination of language training and working practices needs to be facilitated. Language is at all the key to entering the world of work and society. We need to renew and improve Norwegian training. Integration is a two-way process, and the individual immigrant must also remain silent with self-help. The Government will therefore introduce a scheme whereby persons who, after five years of residence, receive municipal benefits and non-working support schemes and who do not have adequate Norwegian knowledge shall have an activity obligation to participate in language training. I expect the Workers' Party to support this. We must combat negative social control and support people like the shameless girls who have gone ahead. It would be completely unnecessary to break up with your family if you choose a different education or spouse than the family has designated, or because you are gay. We don't want such a society, whether it's in immigrant environments, in prayer houses or in community. This is the first government statement that has dedicated an entire chapter to negative social control, and we will follow up the action plan against social control, forcible sex and the 28 measures in the plan. We will also implement new measures. In order to avoid children being sent out of the country against their will, where they are subjected to violence and abuse, it may be necessary to refuse passport issuance. This is also a grip that I expect more people here in the hall will support. We agree that education should not be divided by gender for cultural or religious reasons. Girls must be able to go to camp and participate in sporting activities without being asked questions about this. Close follow-up is needed for students or parents where students are not allowed to do just that, and it is natural that municipalities should go home on suspicion of keeping their children away from school. I am pleased to continue working on the government platform. It's showing direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2682	I am very grateful to have been shown trust as Norway's first Minister of Older People and Public Health. For me, it is important that people who have lived a long life should have a life not only with purpose and dignity but also with joy, care and belonging. In the future, we need to prepare ourselves for growing older, and that the individual wants both to meet his or her needs and to use his or her resources. Older people today are a complex group. Already in 2016, more than one million had reached the age of 60. And more will be. For me, it's also important that we as a society take care of people's health, which is one of the keys to a long life. This is because the people who live here in Norway are the most important resource. I am happy to work for a better public health and am concerned that we should prevent where we can, and not least we should repair where we need to. Good public health is created, among other things: through the little choices we make in our lives. For me it's about taking the stairs to my office on the seventh floor, jogging a trip along the beach in Mandal or going to Pilates with the girls. In addition, I'm busy eating healthy. It's the little grips, like cutting up fruit or making sure that they're doing well around you, and saying, "Hey, how are you doing?" that makes life good. It's also important to remember that five a day does good for your stomach. Good public health is good for both the body and the top. I can arrange, but the individual actually has to take responsibility for himself. We have good health here in Norway, but we still have some challenges. The proportion of young women with mental disorders is increasing, and so is the proportion of people with obesity. In 2019, I will promote a new public health report, where we will see the whole life cycle in the context. The habits and attitudes that we adopt as young people affect our ability to succeed further in life. Not least, the health we have as a young person is very important for how long we live and how we will get it when we get older. An important task for me is to create a more age-friendly society, where older people can live the active lives they want. Many believe that the wave of old age will strike a violent blow on the welfare community. But more older people also mean new opportunities. That's why I'm here today. Many older people have better prospects for living active lives than previous generations. Parents have a lot to do with both work and society, but they must be allowed to get away with. To meet the challenges of the future, it is important to build more lucky days care places and not just upgrade the old institutions. The municipalities also have a great responsibility here. It is necessary to build more people in order to ensure that older caregivers receive a good offer. At the same time, we must not forget that many older people actually want to live at home, and they want to use technology and welfare technology and the opportunities it offers. Therefore, we also need to adapt services so that older people can get support and help with what they need in their own homes. I'm going to work on this a lot – not least through the new quality reform for the elderly, called ‘Life for Life’. The aim of ‘Live your whole life’ is to give older people better help and support to master their daily lives. The reform will be different, because it is based on the local authorities' own experience. It shall work, it shall enable the individual to be seen, and it shall enhance the quality of the basics, namely food and meals, activity and community and good health care context. A major challenge for the elderly today is solitude. They have no one to talk to, no one to eat with and no one to share the joys of life with – everyone out there is not seen. We can't have it like that in Norway. Here, volunteering is also important. It is also important for me to link the generations more closely, just like having children with care for the elderly, or to allow students to live with older people. I am very pleased to present this new reform. It should not be the size of the municipality's wallet that determines whether older people get a good old age. Therefore, state funding of care services is an important attempt. I am pleased that the recent evaluation shows good results. It provides an opportunity to increase skills and better understand the needs and situations of the elderly. I am happy to catch up with the work and would like to invite the representatives to take the stairs with me, eat healthy apples or join the training here in the basement. I'm happy!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2711	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his new job! Now that we've got the country's first prime minister, I'd like to ask her if she can clarify her portfolio, and what is her constitutional responsibility towards Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2716	The most important thing for me and the government is to have a connection in the care of the elderly. It's important to see the elderly in a larger perspective, which the government is also very concerned about. As far as the public health portfolio is concerned, there has been an area that has not emerged so clearly before, and the fact that the government is now betting on adding the bit that has to do with public health from cradle to grave, into my area of responsibility, is very important. We see that the amount of prevention that public health means will have consequences, will be counted for other departments, but the red thread in lifting different areas will also give a whole community – whether it is children's diet in school or home, activity, care for the elderly, etc. Everything will come under the public health post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2723	It can almost be heard as if it were the Senior Minister for Health, the Stortinget, to deal with health policy, not the Minister of Health. It'll be exciting to see how it evolves further. I have another question for the Minister: In the Political Quarter last week, the Minister of the Elderly said that government funding for the care of the elderly should prevent people in poor municipalities from getting as good services as residents in richer municipalities. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Older People whether she believes that the government's municipal structure is good enough for the municipalities to get their work done. We in the Workers' Party have added 2 billion. kr more than the government on the table of the municipalities. And then I wonder: if funds are now locked up for the care of the elderly, what areas will the minister of the elderly deprioritise in favour of the care of the elderly? Is it public health work, school health services, child relief services or other services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2732	I believe that the important thing about the evaluation report we have now received is that it shows that it was right to start with this pilot scheme. This is the way to go, and as I said, we want to expand the scheme, both with the number of municipalities and in time. We see that there are differences between poor and rich municipalities out in Municipality-Norway today. Using this area as a balancing item in the municipal budgets shows us that we should have a statutory task, let alone what we have in school. No one is questioning the existence of government funds that are earmarked for the sector – we are not asking whether there is a difference between a child in a first-class in my municipality, Mandal, and in Stjørdal. But suddenly it will be difficult to imagine that municipalities in the area of care for the elderly will not provide the same service. The important thing here is to dry out trying to think new. That doesn't mean that what we have is bad, but we're going to dry up thinking new.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2737	I might have gone a little too far in my question, so now I'm going to be very precise: Does the Minister of Older People think that the municipalities with the government's municipal structure have enough money to do their tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2742	Now I have not taken a position on the content or how we are going to finance this. We'll get back to that in the next budget. But there is no doubt that the new reform, called ‘Life All Life’, will be an important part of the state trial system we have. Because this is seeing the whole thing. That's what we've often lacked in municipal policy in this area – seeing the whole thing. One thing is that the municipalities themselves can make some choices, but the important lines in the municipality for this area by state means – if there is a ringing, if there is an extension of pot – I will come back to. That they're going to be allowed to shape this further is important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2747	Congratulations to the Council of State on a new job! I hope for a good cooperation. The Council of State is also the Minister of Public Health and is responsible for alcohol policy, and the Government Platform points out that the government will establish more treatment sites and improve the protection of alcohol abusers. It's a very good point, it's a big need. It also says that the government will ensure good cooperation with ideal actors, and there is also a point that one should strengthen the health supply for the elderly. Then it is a paradox that while this is being written on the platform, the Blue Cross has added its treatment provision for alcohol and drug addicts at the City Council Clinic in Drammen, Brerens, which has been dismissed from Health South-East – 50 – and has to set aside 25 days. The question is whether the new Minister of Public Health will go in and ensure that this offer can be sustained.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2756	First of all, I would like to say that we want to continue the main lines of today's alcohol policy. We're going on with them. With regard to the individual institutions and what is happening outside the municipalities in some areas, it is under my good colleague who is sitting here in the Chamber, who may have the opportunity to answer it later when he is going to make contributions. Otherwise, it is clear to me in the field of public health that being on the prevention side means providing information and knowledge — to children, to young people, to adults — about consequences in the different areas. But it's up to the individual to be able to make his choices. It is important that the individual is actually informed and has a good knowledge of public health and can make the right choices, and I am quite convinced that the representative Toppe and I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2763	This will not be easy when the Council of State understands that it is responsible for alcohol policy, while the treatment of alcohol addicts is another State Council's responsibility. So I get to put that question straight to another state council when he's standing here another time. But for alcohol policy: there's a point in the government platform that I hope this council will be responsible for and able to say something about, and that's that one should go beyond the main lines of today's alcohol policy and have a larger room for action on the issue of tipping times and outlets. My question is: does the Council of State for Public Health think that this point means that one will have a tightening of this policy, or does it mean that one sees that it can become a liberalisation? What is the will of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2772	We want to continue the main lines of today's alcohol policy and to give municipalities freedom of choice to, for example, to be able to have longer opening hours – we believe that the individual municipality can decide for itself. They know their municipality, they know how things work, and that's the principle for me too. Again, instead of being guardians who keep coming with the index finger, I think people are going to get that information and make their choices – good and bad – but it is important for me to be in the prevention aspect and to be well informed about the benefits and the negatives. But there should never be any doubt that we are continuing the main lines of today's alcohol policy, and I also understand that the Center Party has agreed with much of what is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2780	It is a little unclear what the Council of State is really responsible for, but at least she says that she is responsible for prevention work also for the elderly, and that there is a need to inform about the consequences of different things. Then I hope she does it to her fellow state councillors, because one of the most important things for the elderly is that you should be able to stay at home longer. In Norway, there are 600 housing blocks, 380 of which are without a lift. Two out of three housing blocks do not have access to a lift. It's the oldest blocks that don't have a lift, and there are many older people with low income who can't afford to buy a new apartment with a lift. What happened in the budget? Well, the government cut the subsidies to establish a block lift, they've halved the grant in two years. Will the Council take on the information and responsibility to explain to its colleagues the consequences of this, which is that many more will then end up having to live in a nursing home or in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2789	It is that each municipality has a responsibility to identify its needs, and there is a great difference between the needs of larger cities, of which Andersen's representative here is concerned, and those who are out in the countryside, in the districts. Of course, I see the challenge that there are many older people in poor apartments without a lift – who are struggling. But once again, it is about the provision to be provided by municipalities in order to identify the different needs and sew together a package that suits the individual, including the possibility for individuals to stay at home as far as possible. We have talked about this with follow-up teams, as well as monitoring teams, who are going to the municipalities just to see the individual's needs. And then I'm talking not only about a hot meal, but also about the housing situation for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2798	I would also like to congratulate the new Minister of Public Health. Yesterday, in our country, the Secretary of State for Public Health said that smoking is still the main single cause of illness and premature death in Norway, and that therefore one wants to continue a strong commitment to tobacco prevention and help those who want to quit. Despite this, the Progress Party last year, when the Minister of Health proposed neutral tobacco packages and neutral snuff packages, voted against. They also do not want other arrangements to reduce passive smoking or to prevent more people from smoking. My question, when health Norway.no says that passive smoking is very harmful to children and young people, is: What will the Council of State do to solve the biggest single cause of premature death in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2807	We are concerned that no one should involuntarily be exposed to passive smoking. It is also important to show consideration for each other in public space. I also believe in prevention, which is under my responsibility for public health – just to get children and young people to start with neither snooping nor smoking or anything else. I fully agree with the representative of Bollestad that smoking remains the main single cause of illness and premature death in Norway, and that is also one of the main reasons – we should not forget – for social health differences. So this is an important area for me. Then I won't go back to the previous period and say that the party I represent meant like that. Now we're in a new situation. We have a new government, we have a new party that's in it, and we want to design policies that are adapted to both the Jeløya platform and the future we're going to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2816	The most important thing is that the provision of services is adapted to the individual needs of the individual, as the Council of State also pointed out. So I hope that the senior minister actually makes sure to give priority to solving the major challenges we face in the care of the elderly. In SV, we are ready – and we have signaled that before – to ensure a majority of important issues for the elderly. That is why my question today is as simple as this: Will the Progress Party and the Government support SV's proposal to monitor human rights in the care of the elderly? Will the Progress Party and the Government support SV's proposal for a crew standard, so older people are taken care of properly? And will the Progress Party and the government support SV's proposal to ensure exclusive access for all elderly people in nursing homes instead of a failed discount scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2823	Now it's the way things come up here, and they're going to be treated here, we're going to be involved in through our representatives in the fraction. I fully agree with the representative from SV here saying that looking at this area, seeing who is struggling, is important. But there is also a reform, which will be presented in May/June, called ‘Life for life’. That's where we'll look at the whole thing about how it works in the municipalities, because it's not just about food or activity, it's also about coherent healthcare, which is a bit of what the representative here is about. We're going to look at structures around this with one room and double room. In some of the municipalities that have tested state care for the elderly, there are examples that some people do not want to live together even if they are married. So there are things that we haven't always taken into account. But I can promise that we will take seriously the proposals that SV makes [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2832	Time's up. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2839	The voters gave the four non-socialist parties a majority vote in the last harvest. The outcome of the government negotiations is now ready. We have a three-party government that does not have a majority in the Stortinget, but we have a large-scale majority who have said that Erna Solberg is going to be Prime Minister. I trust that we also have a great deal of responsibility consciously, capable of finding common solutions that are good for Norway, good for our citizens, and that we contribute together to a sustainable welfare society for our future generations. The Solberg government wants a society with little differences and that provides opportunities for everyone. Targeted efforts to combat poverty are then important. The most important thing to ensure the economic space is to get more people to work, and we need to help those outside to get help to get back into work. A red thread in the government statement is getting more people to work, and this is what the government has been delivering to those degrees over the last four years. Only in the last year are 50,000 new jobs created. But to succeed in continuing to create jobs, we depend on the Norwegian labour market. We depend on the wise minds, the founders, the owners, those who dare to take chances, those who want to create new jobs. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the creation of these new jobs, and investment in Norwegian enterprises needs to be more profitable. The oil price drop we experienced in 2015 gave us a clear indication that Norway needs more legs to stand on financially, so new jobs need to be created in several industries. Our new working life must be green, smart and innovative. The government is concerned that Norway’s rich natural resources provide us with a good basis for activity, innovation and industrial development throughout the country. The government platform is also clear on the clear relationship between trade and economic development, in particular in District Norway. The government will therefore continue its strong commitment to transport and communication across the country. The government will continue to reduce the tax and tax levels of those investing in jobs, so that we can secure the jobs we already have, and so that more people can create new industries and jobs for the future across the country. The government will also see to it that more people can learn throughout their lives. In this way, more people can work longer, and more can be qualified to enter the labour market. No one is going out of date. But it's a paradox that the Workers' Party's view of tax angles a little back and forth. In the election campaign, they were clear that taxes should be increased. When they laid out their alternative state budget, they had left some of that line, but when the government reduced the machine tax, it was wrong. The tax collectors of the working party were made visible. For the Workers' Party, tax is the solution to all challenges in Kommune-Norway. Fortunately, the government is more in line with the LO and the Joint Alliance. Head of the Joint Alliance, Jørn Eggum, said: «ACCORDING to taxes on machinery endangers the jobs of Norway.» In the financial debate in December, we heard representatives from the Workers' Party say that they were concerned that tax relief would go to owners abroad. The Labour Party showed here that they are not at all on the employee’s side, so it may not be so strange that the proportion that organizes goes down and the LO loses members. I am therefore pleased that the budgetary unity between the non-socialist parties meant that this tax should be phased out. This is important for Norwegian jobs to be involved in development and for ensuring good framework conditions for business activity in Norway. If we are to succeed in job creation and good welfare services in the future, we are dependent on private actors – who were also the Workers' Party when they carried out their kindergarten reform. Since the Right and Advance Party took over the government offices, there has been a clear commitment to industrial research such as the User-led Innovation Arena, FORNY2020 and the TaxFUNN scheme. These are increased by over 4.2 billion. kr since 2013, and this bet will continue with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left in the Government. Investing in research, knowledge and new technologies is important to equip Norway further to enter the green shift. Over four years in government, the Right has already shown that it is possible to combine growth-promoting tax relief with increased welfare. We have strengthened research, and not least we have invested in the construction of culture throughout the country. We will continue to do this for a sustainable society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2872	I would like to congratulate a triple-blue government with a triple-blue government platform, which I must acknowledge that I have read with interest. That's a lot of words. These are fine wordings. While I was reading, I also got a certain impression that I had read a lot of it before. Of course, a lot of what's said is what we're on, and a lot of what's on it is also, of course. Several of the areas covered by the government's government statement have also been proposed by the Workers' Party in the past, but areas for which we have not received a majority. I'll draw out some of them. We have several times previously proposed measures to strengthen the access to capital for the good ideas of business. In the platform we can sensationally read that the government will assess how the government can contribute to access to capital to business. ‘Evaluators’ — what do they put into it? Is there something they want to implement, or is it actually just that they need to evaluate it? It's another word that's very much used in the government statement. Furthermore, they write that they want to ‘evaluate the mineral law’. Yeah, great! But why did they not vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal, which we promoted exactly one year ago? We would not just evaluate the law, but we would have more activity into a mineral industry that could be very important to Norway. We can also read that the government statement now states that they will facilitate the development of data centres. Already in May 2016, the Stortinget made a very clear decision asking the government to develop a strategy that describes how the authorities can facilitate the further establishment of green data centres in Norway. It was a unanimous big thing that said it. Now when I look down in the hall and see the Minister of Transport sitting there, I think it's been a year and nine months without doing anything, or at least that nothing has been put forward, in terms of a strategy related to the establishment of green data centres. It tells us very clearly about the lack of action and implementation to actually make use of the opportunities that Norway has to develop the jobs of the future. I want to give the Prime Minister a well-meaning advice. When developing a new strategy for green data storage in Norway, use another government council that may want to do so. The right parliamentary leader said that the government statement provides good and concrete answers for a sustainable welfare society. He also said that some of the policy's most important tasks were security and security. Security for whom? Is the government statement grateful for what we've heard the government talk about for four years, conversion? Does it address the migration problem? Does the government statement take place and respond and focus on this with green conversion? My assessment is clearly no. The government platform does not specifically address the major problem of having the lowest proportion of the population employed since 1995. We have more and more out of work. There were 23,000 more inactive persons in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to one year earlier. This means that we need a government that can put policy into practice, precisely to implement change and opportunities through new jobs. Norway has great opportunities in renewable energy, in industry, in maritime industries, in the oil and gas sector, in fisheries and aquaculture, yes, in minerals, medicines, biotechnology, etc. I could have mentioned a lot more. But then we don't just need general statements and round formulations or a recognition that one should have broad instruments. No, then we need a concrete policy. If we are to succeed, we need to put into practice and target the policy in a very close and committed cooperation between the authorities, businesses and employees. The major flaw in the government statement we are discussing today is precisely this with the concreteisation of the policy of creating the jobs of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2889	I hear a lot of opinions about the colour of the government, and I just want to mention that as a representative of Rogaland, I prefer petroleum blue. In the exchange of lines today, the representative Gahr Støre said that municipalities have to increase property taxes because it is necessary in order to provide good services. That is enough for most Labour Party rapporteurs. However, in 2017, Sandnes, where the Labour Party has the rapporteur, reached full health care coverage, without property tax. Why? Well, that's because the Progress Party is in charge of the municipality and has said that we should give priority to the most important thing first, without property tax. Indeed, it is fully possible to provide good services to the citizens while respecting the fact that the tax money is used by the inhabitants. People's homes and leisure homes should not be tax items, and that's why I'm happy that the government is paying to reduce property taxes. Furthermore, the representative Gahr Støre continued in his main post to confirm that he does not understand what investment taxes mean for small and medium-sized enterprises around the country. Property taxes are only levied on Norwegian owners. Reducing taxes on wealth is important in order to create jobs and make Norwegian ownership of business more beneficial. The Progress Party sees that property taxes entail additional costs for enterprises that have tied up most of the capital in buildings, machinery and equipment – rather they could be spent on research and development of goods and services. That's why I'm happy that the government is paying to reduce the property tax. The representative Gahr Støre was also concerned about increased differences, but did not mention the main cause of increased differences, which are high levels of immigration. If immigration becomes too high, good integration becomes difficult, and differences will increase. If we are to succeed as a society with integration, we need to put in place several different measures. We need to invest in early school and kindergarten. We have to get more kindergarten teachers and more teachers on the 1st to 4th level. We must have more immigrant children in kindergarten and more immigrants in work, and good recreational clubs and active sports must be created. To succeed in integrating immigrants, lifting families out of poverty and creating functioning diverse societies, we need a comprehensive package of measures. The Progress Party is committed to having a strict immigration policy to ensure a sustainable welfare society. That is why I am pleased that the government is committed to both having a strict immigration policy and implementing an integration promise. One of the things that surprised me most about the post from the representative Gahr Støre was that the Workers' Party has obviously taken off the leadership sweater as the important opposition party in school policy. In the article he mentioned school only twice, and it was about teacher crisis and school dropout. These are two areas where the government actually delivers, and only last year there were almost a thousand more teacher's projects than the year before, and most of these were on the 1st to the 4th stage. The proportion that falls from higher education has remained stable for many years, too high, but last year we saw clear signs of improvement, which is reason to assume that the good measures of the government are starting to work. It is measures for which the Labour Party was in favour of, but is now opposed; skills requirements, for which the Labour Party was in favour, but is now opposed; and a historical post-training effort, which is twice as large as the Labour Party promised in the 2013 election campaign. When it storms, they bend off – which we saw clearly when the Workers' Party recently turned to the issue of the qualifications of teachers. Furthermore, we have seen that they handed over the school agency in Oslo to SV before Christmas. When the Labour Party was going to evaluate the election campaign and point out three important areas of action to get the voters back, they chose work, immigration and districts. On the socialist side, it is quite obvious that the Workers' Party has now handed over the staf stick on school policy to SV. In the future, more people have to stand longer in work, and more people have to have a job to do, will be able to maintain and further develop today's welfare society. If we are to succeed in the transformation we have to make sure that businesses get their competitiveness up, both internally in the country and abroad. This is done through in particular three measures: reduced taxes, historical commitment to culture and a good school. In school, I would particularly like to bring out vocational training. Valuation is impossible without good vocational training. Over the last four years, we've spent over 600 million. to strengthen the professions. Among other things, we have ensured a strong increase in the apprenticeship allowance, which remained silent under the red-green. We now see that in 2017 there was a record in the number of apprenticeships. 2018 will be the year of the professional professions, where we will facilitate even more apprenticeships, and during the period the focus on professional training will continue. We need to organise for more people to work in the basement, and then we need a good framework for businesses and an offensive professional activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2921	The way into our society goes through school and work. And the way to work is through knowledge and competence — through language, accounting and basic skills. It starts in kindergarten and lasts life. As Minister of Knowledge and Integration, I have to build on a work that has come a long way. Through a pedagogical norm, early efforts and dedicated employees, we provide a nursery that sees each child. In primary schools, we are raising awareness of skills and basic skills. No student should leave primary school without having learned to read, write and calculate properly, and students who are struggling will get help early. Therefore, early intervention will be a high priority during this period. Teachers are given an historic promise of continuing training. A professional profession is being promoted in order to increase its status and to allow more people to choose and complete vocational training. The apprenticeship grant has increased several times for more people to learn. We renew the subjects until further education and clear room for deep learning and immersion. That's now the basis that the next generation is ready for the time to come. We do that by creating a school where children and young people learn, but also where they thrive and feel safe. That is why we have a new bullying law in place. No one should be allowed to turn away when someone is being tormented. A lot is going well. Norwegian children read much better than they did ten years ago. The gap between immigrant background students and others is decreasing. It counteracts differences and is essential for participation both in the labour market and in society. Norway is now in the midst of a transition. Digitisation and automation will dramatically change many professions. This will lead to a greater need for retraining and further training. That is why we need to implement a future competence reform. Lifelong learning we've been talking about for decades. Now is the time to increase the effort towards alienation. No one shall experience that they lose their foothold because of lack of competence; we must learn throughout their lives. To build a sustainable welfare society, we need an up-to-date working life with room for all. Therefore, knowledge, competence and integration are among the main areas of government, and they are linked. We see that the basic skills are crucial to getting to work and to getting to work. This applies both to those of us who have been here for a long time and to those who have just arrived. Those to live in Norway shall be included in large and small communities. Those who come should feel like part of Norwegian society. Then we have to succeed better with early work in kindergarten and school, with language training, and we have to succeed in getting as many people into work as possible. The government will implement an integration promise so that more people can participate and contribute both in the labour market and in society. We want to implement a comprehensive reform of the introduction system. We need to make clearer expectations of results in the municipalities. And we're going to implement more labour-oriented measures. We have to look at the system again, and we have to look it through the eyes of those who use it today. We also need to ensure better everyday integration, so that immigrants can participate and contribute to sports and associations, in neighbourhood and local democracy. It's often the small meetings on the football field or on cafe visits that make the big difference in people's lives. These meetings and communities are not adopted by the state but by people who freely and willingly do something for others. That is why we need to cooperate with the voluntary sector in order to succeed in the integration process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2944	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2949	First: Congratulations on a new job! Then I would say that for the Workers' Party, more teachers with time for the students are the most important thing. We want a teacher's standard to ensure that the money that is granted is spent on increasing teacher's density. The right hand side and the forward side, which are strongly opposed to such a standard, shall reach out and implement it. The working party is going to press for a good solution for the students. The government is responsible for us quickly setting up a system that works. I would like to say that can the Council of State now – now there is some uncertainty about this – guarantee that the teaching standard will be fully financed, and that the country's rapporteurs will not be stuck with the bill for a norm that the Right really is against?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2958	Let me first express a wish for good cooperation. I look forward to cooperation with all the parties in the Great Britain, both on important innovations in knowledge and – not least – integration, which are important for the sustainability of our society. We made an agreement with the Christian People's Party last autumn. We're going to implement it. It has two sides. One is that we should implement a teaching norm at school, and the Christian People's Party ensures support for the qualifications of teachers. Now we're looking at how this can be done in a good way. There has been a briefing letter to the municipalities today, and we also soon have the regulations to be consulted, so that we can implement the norm in line with the agreement with the Christian People's Party – and in a good way. Our ambition is, of course, that it should be fully financed. So we know that that's not always all the municipalities are satisfied, but the starting point is full funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2965	First of all – congratulations on the appointment of the Council of State, and good luck with important work! The content of the school not only affects the knowledge of the students but is also a key factor in the health and quality of life of the students. As the Council of State is aware, the Centre Party is very concerned about how the level of performance pressures and increasing test culture have a negative impact on the health of students. This also applies to the methods of so-called cell evaluation, where, over the years — with guidance from the directorate — many schools have incorporated practice of asking students to complete their first step of evaluating themselves with smiley or sour faces in a form. Health workers now report mental and somatic disorders in the context of stress all the way down to primary school and kindergarten. What does the Council of State think about this development? Is Norwegian school on its way in the right direction? And what can we expect from more measures that promote pressure and ranking, as the government platform puts up with the focus on learning and school outcomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2972	There is no contrast between a school that prioritises learning and a school that ensures a good learning environment. I fully agree with the representative that a safe and good learning environment is essential for all children to learn well. Just because we're concerned about what's called stress culture, the Ministry of Knowledge last fall ordered a report to get the knowledge base and see what's causing stress culture, and what can be done about it. One thing that is essential is committed, good teachers who make sure that it does not accumulate with tests and demands at the end of the year, but that they provide good management in the classroom. In addition, we have now put in place a new overall plan for the school, which also emphasises public health and lifelong learning as the basis for all the curricula to be revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2979	We agree with the learning environment and teachers is important, but I want to address another topic, the learning environment and motivation for the profession. One point that the Centre Party and the Left joined in the spring of 2017 was the need to recognise vocational education as an important education, equivalent to, among others. higher education. In the setting for the notification of the vocational education system, the Committee gave an opinion on the subject, inter alia: that they considered it important to strengthen vocational schools as higher vocational education and to maintain and further develop the specific nature of vocational schools. It is therefore difficult to understand why the State Council for Higher Education does not have the vocational schools as part of its portfolio. Does the Minister for Knowledge and Integration consider that there is a need to see the vocational education and higher education sector in the context of this, or does the government consider that vocational schools, universities and higher education institutions are not equivalent providers in the education system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2986	I'm happy for the commitment to the colleges. I have today been presented with a report that looks at the need for labour in different industries in the years to come. There is no doubt that we need more people with good vocational training. We need more people who choose the professional courses of study. This is why the government is implementing a professional profession, and we are strengthening the vocational schools. The vocational schools are an important part of the training system in Norway, and we are now working to follow up the decisions taken in the United Kingdom. My clear ambition is to strengthen the position of vocational schools in the education system, and not least as an important partner of the labour market. It is also an important part of the competence reform that we are now working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2991	In the annual student survey, 8,700 students report being bullied regularly by an adult at school. Professor Peder Haug at the Hochskulen in Volda says that teacher training has not taken sufficient account of changes in the human situation at school and that the need for a more comprehensive educational competence has increased. The new Minister of Knowledge answers in today’s VG that bullying students has nothing to do with teacher training. Instead, the Minister of Knowledge raises the index finger and claims that this is only due to bad folk. Is it by raising the index finger and saying – as we in North Norway would say – ‘now, however, must behave’, the government intends to win the fight against bullying, or is it by systematic work and perhaps by giving education a more central role in teacher training that you can win the fight against bullying?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e2998	I recommend reading the sources a little bit more thoroughly. Yes, I think it’s bad manners when adults bully children, and I think it’s totally unacceptable that adults in school bully children. There's no discussion around. What I said in that article was that those numbers are neither old nor new. There is no contradiction between prioritising competence, depression and skilled teachers and facilitating a good learning environment. Nor is it the case that pedagogics are weakened in the new teacher training. We have now introduced a five-year master's degree in teacher training, which will allow the new teachers to receive more practical training. I look forward to winning the fight against bullying together. It is totally unacceptable that adults bully children – and yes, that is bad folk.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3005	I am pleased that I and the new Minister of Knowledge agree that the fight against bullying requires a variety of measures. Increasing the number of teachers through a national standard for teachers is such an important measure. It can improve the social and security of children. Having more time to see each student can lead to all students learning, succeeding and enjoying themselves in the Norwegian school. But this hasn't been particularly positive for the right. Can the new Minister of Knowledge secure the majority in this Chamber that they will introduce this norm as intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3011	I made it clear in a previous line that we have an agreement with the Christian People's Party, and of course we will follow it up. It is important that the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party has a point. 2, i.e. that we have to implement the skills requirements for teachers. It's important that we have high ambitions for the school. I am amazed that several parties here in the Chamber are lowering the ambitions of Norwegian school. We have to make sure that the teachers who are to be responsible for our children, and for Norwegian, English and mathematics, are immersed in the subjects in which they teach. As part of this, we will also make early efforts at school, which also means that there will be more teachers. One part of it is that we are implementing the reform that we have an agreement with the Christian People's Party, and we are going to implement it in a good way, so that this benefits the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3016	I would also like to congratulate Mr Sanner, as the new Minister for Knowledge and Integration, and look forward to cooperation. In today's edition of the newspaper Dagen, the Council of State Nybø states that she wants Christianity out of the Constitution and will remove the reference to the Christian and humanist cultural heritage in the school's purpose paragraph. She answered yes to questions about whether she would also work for this in the government. For the Christian People's Party, this is about removing itself from a value base that has contributed to building a society with emphasis on human dignity, neighbourly love and trustworthiness. Can the State Council of Sanner guarantee that the government will continue to hold today’s school destination paragraph, anchored in our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3025	The answer to that question is yes. Let me also say that I look forward to good cooperation with the representative Gruvan and the Christian People's Party. There are three parties that sit in government, and you might have a little different emphasis on different things. I must also take the reservation that I have not jerked off to read the newspaper today. But the purpose paragraph has a broad anchoring also in Stortinget, and I believe that it stands firm and that it should be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3032	As for the fact that it may be a long night, the President will encourage the replicants to take their seats up here just before they go to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3037	Congratulations to the Council of State by new post: from the Ministry of Local Affairs to the Ministry of Knowledge and Integration. I joined the Municipal and Administrative Committee in the autumn and have been transferred to the Research and Education Committee – not to keep the Council of State in mind, but more to follow the policy and not least to strengthen the professions in the future. Today, the State Council received the first report from the Holden Committee, which will look at future skills needs. The report shows that 20 pst. companies in the construction industry say they have significant recruitment problems for their trades. Then it should worry the government that only within the fields of construction engineering and engineering and industrial production there have been 2 500 fewer students since 2013. Nevertheless, the government does not commit itself to large, new grips in the government statement. Then my question is: What does the Council of State think to do to correct this, when we know that there are 5,000 students waiting in line to get a place to study, which they need to complete their education? What new steps does the Council of State and the new government take to solve the major problems young people face?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3046	We can be happy that there are now several students who have been taught. We can also be glad that there are more people who implement, and fewer who drop out. But we're not going to borrow back, because it's absolutely vital that we succeed in increasing the number of professionals, and we're going to increase the status of professionals. We need more vocational training in the years to come, and the Holden Committee also shows that. The NHO competence barometer also shows that there are opportunities for students here. We will soon come up with a new supply structure for the professions. It'll increase interest. We will provide good continuing training. We will make sure that there are also flexible solutions that allow students to combine work and theory in a better way. For example, if you choose: the timber trade, familiarisation with the timber trade is to be established earlier in the training course. That, we think, will help to increase our implementation in those fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3053	According to the Christian People's Party, the teaching norm is the most important school policy decision in this millennium. Nevertheless, this norm is not mentioned in the Jeløya platform, and the Right and Advance Party have been against it all the way. It is also alarming that the Government Declaration neither mentions the growing shortage of teachers nor has concrete measures to recruit more teachers. It has to be, unless you deliberately steer towards a teacher's crisis. My question to the Council of State is: can he guarantee that lack of teachers or lack of funding will not be an excuse to fail to implement the teaching norm?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3060	I thank you for your commitment to the teaching norm. I've answered it in two lines. We will implement the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party. But as I underlined, this agreement also has a point number. 2, i.e. that we must implement the competence requirements for which the Workers' Party was also before. It surprises me that the Workers' Party, which in the last period tried to copy the Right School Policy, is now trying to copy the SV's school policy. I am amazed that the Workers' Party is lowering the ambitions of Norwegian school by ignoring the requirements for depression and competence that we are now implementing. We must have high ambitions for Norwegian school. That means we have to make sure that we have more teachers with depression, and then we have to implement the teaching norm, which we have an agreement with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3065	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3070	One of the things we're sitting in today's big, can be the most happy, and today's government can be the most happy, the wise choices are the ones that have been sitting here before, have taken care of us. One of the most important things they've done for us is ownership of Norwegian nature and having a national strategy for how to develop our natural resources. It's shaped our country. I want to go through some of those main elements. When we look at forest policy, the concession policy, as the Left in its time designed at the beginning of the 1900s, and how it has ensured the spread of ownership, value creation and activity throughout the country, it has been absolutely crucial. It has shaped the view of how to have a ownership of soil for the many who have created viable growth societies, the food industry, activity around the whole of Norway. The same law was the basis for the fishing industry, with delivery obligations, to build land, to build industry, to ensure that local communities get the benefits of the huge natural resources that are off the coast, out into the sea. The same idea came into being in the 1960s and 1970s, when the Norwegian oil and gas policy was designed. It has been long-term, it has been wise, it has been thought that the nation’s natural resources should be used to build land – and build for the many, not for the few. That is why it was interesting to read the Jeløya Declaration: What national strategies were available around Norwegian natural resources? Could you see any trace of the old Left, which was a national strategic party, or could we see any trace of the neoliberal left? Unfortunately, when you read the statement, the government announces new rematches around ownership to Norwegian nature. It is unwise, because it has been a success for Norway that the right time after time has failed in its blind market faith, while a government or a majority of people have chosen a strategy to build land and build for the many. It is amazing that the Left, who has been so proud of its tradition from the beginning of the 1900s, is now going into the government and has put the whole idea on the boat. Then it's the other amazing thing: when we've seen that oil and gas prices have fallen, we've seen that investment in the Norwegian economy has gone from oil and gas industries to the housing market. That's where the big money move has been, and we've had very low investments in Norwegian industry. Norway as a country cannot live by living, and we now see signs of danger in the housing market because there is a surplus of housing. Then it is nice that there is no clear industrial strategy in the Jeløya Declaration. How are we going to conduct a charging policy and a business policy where we can use long Norwegian value chains to make us live on in the future? The situation we see in the Norwegian economy now is very vulnerable. There's no new thoughts about it, there's no new ideas, there's no new grip, and you just rest on the housing market, increased consumption, and things have to take care of themselves. That's unforeseeable, because in Norway we've always had a strategic idea of how to develop our business. Unfortunately, there are no new ideas and new ideas about district policy either. It's a continuation and a strengthening of what we saw in the last period: a belief in greatness, a belief in centralization. What was called the near-police reform means that more than 120 places of employment in these days are being laid down. It's become a remote police reform. What has been said about democratisation, the regional reform, is not something that is enthusiastic about in this Chamber, but it is said that the work must continue with a community reform that has not created any enthusiasm. That the Left, who once had a vision for the whole country, has now become one of the most centralizing parties, is sad. That's what also scares us in the Center Party, for the Right, the Advance Party and the Left don't make each other any better, they make each other worse. As far as tax policy is concerned, the tax burden is warned to go further, but in terms of taxes, only increases are reported. The problem is that the increase in fees affects everyone, regardless of income. That the Progress Party could once again go into a growing period and announce that they want to increase the tax burden, we in the Center Party think it is incomprehensible. But fortunately, dear friends, the Right, Advance Party and Left went back in last year's big choice. They don't have a majority anymore, and we're going to notice that tonight when there's a majority between the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and SV. We're going to see that in case after case beyond spring, and it's the Storting that finally has the final word. It gives me reason for optimism, even though the Jeleia declaration is a new declaration of more centralisation and greater differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3085	We liberals are very pleased with the whole of the Jeleya platform. The left reviews in the platform are amazing. There are details that would have looked different if we had formulated the whole platform alone, but we are satisfied with the whole – not only our size, no, we feel that we have been treated equally by the other two government parties, and we feel our heart matters are well expressed, both qualitatively and quantitatively in the platform. The left takes responsibility for the country. We're on the move. The Perspective Communication and the National Budget for 2018 highlight many challenges and opportunities. This is what we in the Left want to do in order to strike out the course through the Jeløya platform. The platform provides for the conduct of a responsible economic policy based on the rule of action. Growth-enhancing tax relief will both strengthen competitiveness and create new jobs. This is what the Prime Minister says: Values must be created before they are shared, and the platform says that measures will be taken to increase value creation and productivity. Norway has committed itself to achieving our climate objectives, and therefore greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced. Much needs to be done in the transport sector, and the left is satisfied that the electric car policy is ensured in the platform, and that the government commits itself to following up the ambitious NTP we created last time with the Christian People's Party. It will give time to environmentally friendly transport. There are some things that taste extra good: animal welfare and fur nutrition, that the Nature Diversity Act is firm, and that the platform gives full victory to the Left so that there will not even be an impact assessment of the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja, and that there is no petroleum activity at Jan Mayen, the ice edge, the Skagerrak or at the Mørefelten. We liberals are very satisfied with that. In the case of children, young people and adults, it is particularly good for all those who attended the regional meeting of the Left in 2016, where we adopted a third of the parental leave, a free SFO for families with the lowest income and a national template for local SFO framework plans. All this and more are now on the Jeleya platform. Since 2014, we have been working to get child care training in place. It started with a sample scheme of 10 million. kr, but is an arrangement we have strengthened in all the last years' budget. This offer may apply to all children in kindergartens throughout the country. Together with the opening of the platform to move swimming lessons from 4th grade to earlier in school, preferably 1st grade, this will allow children to make maximum use of the training. Only 50 pst. by Norwegian 10-year-olds are swimmers. Here many have promised water in the swimming pool, also at Prime Minister level in the election campaign, but it is only now that we are ready to take a real effort for the lifesaving skills of Norwegian children. That we also strengthen language training in kindergartens and among others. Prioritising early work from 1st to 4th grade will help the same children later in life with the possibility of completing secondary school. Here, the years to come must take hold, especially for boys and, in particular, for minority boys. The skilled workforce is good for Norwegian business and Norwegian society, but it is also very important for the individual to succeed in their own lives and for their children to have better growing-up conditions again in the next round. Unfortunately, poverty is all too often inherited. The fact that poverty reduction has become one of the government’s areas of activity warms a liberal heart. Making it possible for children to have good growth conditions, to be able to succeed in the same way as other children, regardless of the income of their parents, to participate in culture and leisure activities, enables us to create a good childhood that can last a lifetime. For the opposite is a bad childhood that unfortunately can also last out. That is why, together with the Christian People's Party, we have, in the last period, strengthened the efforts of children and young people, for example. for those children who grow up in homes with drug problems. I am therefore proud that the platform will step up efforts in the field of drugs. It's about creating life in dignity, and a drug reform will be able to move us away from the criminal trail at user doses, and we can get increased freedom of choice in the LAR and attempted heroin-assisted treatment. Overdose deaths need to be reduced, and we believe that drug treatment packages by 2020, together with a strengthened supply of detoxification and lifelong learning, can contribute to both saving lives and giving dignity. The left is proud to have negotiated its own Minister for Development. Norway must lead the development policy, not least as regards the promotion of human rights globally. The UN's sustainability objectives are committed in the platform. All in all, we Liberals are very satisfied with the Jeleya platform, and we are delighted to address the political challenges and the political opportunities that lie ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3120	I have listened to the speeches that have been made in the debate so far, and a first reflection is that there is a broad consensus on important goals for Norwegian society. There is a clear impression – despite some attempts to caricify the government’s positions. These important objectives are primarily about work. High employment and low unemployment are what we all work for. It is necessary for our country, and it provides an opportunity to create a future for the individual. Another objective of which there is broad agreement is to take care of a society with small differences. If the differences become too big, it will get in the way of the individual's ability to succeed and to use his or her abilities. It's going to be an unfair society. It will in turn slow growth and value creation, but also create a society that is not like the society I think we all here are proud of. A third common goal is a serious working life. The way we have organised our working life is an important competitive advantage for Norway. Serious employers investing in the skills of their employees, including apprentices and competing for smarter and more efficient solutions, have proved to be a success. Action against operators threatening the Norwegian model shall remain of high priority. And the fourth – and I say it because it has not been addressed in so many of the contributions from the parliamentary leaders, but I assume that the platform is the basis – is that we have a common goal to tackle the climate challenges. There is a broad consensus – and I take with everyone, because what has not been said is probably agreement – that Norway should take its share of the responsibility for fulfilling the obligations we have promised to fulfil to the rest of the world. I believe that the broad consensus on these issues is fundamentally positive for Norway. I think it helps to ensure both stability and long-term, and it also makes it easier for us, as a nation, to achieve the goals we set. It is therefore good that the broad lines of foreign policy also seem to have been endorsed, so far in this debate. However, what I do not see as easily an equal understanding of when it comes to the specific challenges facing Norway is what they will actually require of us, the challenges that are absolutely necessary to solve, also because we are going to be able to achieve the important goals we agree on. In the coming years, a significantly larger number of new jobs need to be created in the private sector in Norway. It is primarily where we need to collect tax revenue to raise the rest, to get employment up, so that more people can find a way into the world of work, to get value creation up, so that we can fund good welfare schemes for future generations. The government is based on much of the good that happened in the previous period. About a year ago, we presented an ambitious industrial report with new measures, which we have launched in the last year, and which received broad support across the industry. Norwegian Industry today presents its business cycle barometer, which clearly says yes to the signals in both the Jeløya platform and the government's policy of a clearer competitiveness for Norwegian industry. It is about being clear that in the coming years, we need to give priority to innovation and private creativity. We also need to look at how the public sector, together with the private sector, both solves challenges in our society and creates new jobs. It is unnatural to talk about a major health industry – which the government promises a message for the autumn, and which we will work on how to achieve the goals for – without saying that even private people must be suppliers to public Norway, which has health as its major public priority. It's government acquisitions. When we say this will contribute to more innovation, it means that private individuals will also participate more in publicly funded areas in the future. The debate here does not seem to include it. Are we not going to use the great power that lies in the public sector, also to create jobs that can build a future business? Then we have to make sure that we do not look blindly at the distinction between public and private, but actually look at how the cooperation platforms between public and private will be in the future. It has the government as its basis. We see it going hand in hand, both to solve tasks and to create business for the future, with the future needs and challenges we face in a situation where both digitalisation, health industries and large knowledge industries will be important value creators for the future. During the transition period from the mid-2000s, most of the job creation we had in Norway, immigrants and immigrants benefited. We need to learn from that now. We did not succeed in lifting enough of those who were out of work into the workplace. We need to create a new, inclusive growth, which brings more people into the labour market, which contributes both to a better life and to a better opportunity for those who come in, but at the same time also to do something about the revenue and expenditure side of the government budget. That's why we've said that we need an inclusion table. That is why we have said that this is a high priority project for the government. Therefore, much more and more recent measures need to be taken, but also clearer commitments. When it is so obvious that 5 pst. of all new employment in the State to come from people with holes in the CV or with disabilities or other, there is an obligation which must be clear and clear that the State will not now rest on the fact that only the private sector is going to promise this. This should also help the State and – hopefully – the local authority sector to make promises in the years to come. There is no sustainable solution for Norway in the future to do even more so that more outsiders can enter the labour market. I think it's strange to be accused of not looking at the long-term challenges of poverty reduction. It is precisely our whole commitment to work, inclusion and integration – the issues raised by the government – that contribute to. The reason why there are more poor children today is that we have far more immigrants, especially those who have come as refugees and asylum seekers, into our working lives. If we don't manage to achieve a higher level of employment in those groups, we're going to have permanent poverty, which is stuck. This is to take the challenges at their root, instead of going through schemes. It's talking about how we promise this for the future, and I've said that is a high priority for the government. Nor is it a sustainable solution for Norway to bet on increased subsidies or on more regulation that damages business’s ability to compete internationally. The solution for Norway is to pursue a policy that promotes green, innovative and competitive jobs, creating jobs and a profit for society. We therefore need a competitive tax system, where both level and device facilitate investments in Norwegian jobs. We need a continued commitment to infrastructure, research, development and knowledge. The government shift in 2013 marked a change of pace in these areas. The Jeleia platform announces that the bet will continue. But then it is gratifying that the debate has shown that there is still a majority in favour of a completely necessary business-friendly policy. A reversal back to the course of the previous government will be harmful both for Norwegian value creation and for the ability to achieve the high goals we have set for our society. Many private companies work with a focus on employing people who have fallen out of work. They do it because it's profitable. They find motivated and competent labour where others ignore it. Most of all, they report that it does something about the environment internally in the company. It also helps to make you feel that you are working in an inclusive company. It is time that the public also thank you. That is why we launched the inclusion campaign during the negotiations on Jeløya. There's no reason that the public should not be as offensive here as the private enterprise is. I believe – in the tame of the time reported – that we have good reason to believe that there is broad support for the main objectives. I'm absolutely sure that we're going to find a lot of inequality points, but a little cross of thought in the end: maybe the most important thing we do, not to draw so black and white pictures between us that it seems that it's not understandable to those who are going to help raise all of these goals. The entire Norwegian labour force needs to know that we understand what is reality and the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3165	The last call goes to everyone, I assume, also to the position. I want to begin by commending the Prime Minister for her profile during her visit to Washington, D.C. I think she represented Norway in a good way in meeting the American president. But there is one theme where I want to come back a little bit: Norway's commitments regarding the 2 pst. goal. When it comes to that, we can discuss, but we are obliged to increase the GDP share we spend on defence. In 2018 it will be at 1.56 p.m. Wait, wait, wait, wait, Last week the government came to Stortinget and said it would probably sink to 1.5 pst, and during the treatment of the long-term plan for the Defense in 2016 the government guaranteed the opposite. The Minister of Defence then wrote to the Stortinget that ‘in 2020 it will be in the range of 1.58 to 1.71 pst.’ [[...]] [[...]] My question is: Is this information for Stortinget? And when President Donald Trump said ‘I believe Norway will get there soon’ when it came to 2 p.m., did the Prime Minister then inform us that no, we are going the opposite way in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3174	I'm just clearing a little glass here, I've rolled them before, you see, just for safety. [[muttering in the hall]] We didn't have a detailed discussion about when Norway is going to reach it...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3181	You have 15 more seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3186	... but we have reversed developments in the imbalance between what we have of structure and what we have budgeted. We are increasing budgets significantly every year in the future. Right now, the path of GDP development is higher than we anticipated in the past. It is above average growth in GDP, which means that the proportion will be slightly lower. But it will depend on how much money we spend on international operations, what we spend on other measures, and how the measures adopted in relation to the treatment of the land-use proposition are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3191	The Prime Minister has to clean up more than the glass here, she has to clean up her own data base. I have been in government and experienced that the GDP path has increased, and that is the challenge of achieving percentage targets. Here the proportion goes down, that's the message. I don't think the prime minister said that in the White House, and I think he met, would clean up his glass, or take a glass, to handle it. Another question I would like to ask the Prime Minister is: She said in her statement that we need to offer our young qualified teachers, and I fully agree with that. That's why we suggest that we have to have more and more highly qualified teachers into school. Now we've seen that the proportion of unqualified teachers increases into school and is the highest in 15 years. It's an increase of about 40 pst. since the Party of Progress and the Right took over in 2013. It's a development that's in conflict with everything else we want. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is she concerned that the progress now being made is weakening the quality of the teachers who come to school when the whole Stortinget wants the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3198	I am absolutely sure that when we implement what is in the learning promise and in the Teacher's promise completely, once we have implemented the great promises we now have for continuing education, much more students will meet competent teachers in the classroom. It's a challenge in a period when we have so many people in continuing education, because we're taking back gaps from previous periods. We now promise many through continuing training through a giant promise of this which has never been done before. Then there are actually some temporary workers who teach, who may have professional depression, but who are not finished with their pedagogical depression. Once we have made qualifications demands, we have set them with a horizon of nine years from when we introduced them. This means that all employers – municipalities and school owners – have to plan how to ensure that all students meet competent teachers in their classrooms. Then it's actually the responsibility of the school owner, the municipal politician, to know how many more people need to be re-educated and re-educated. Do more people need to be trained in pedagogics because they are skilled but do not have pedagogical training, or do they need to be immersed in the subjects they lack?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3205	But that's the same example here: the goal you've set, the share you're going to reach, is honorary, but progress is going in the opposite direction. For this reason, the Workers' Party also turned to the view of the separation of teachers – many competent to leave and be mobilised from the labour reserve. But in one area, this majority in the European Parliament is showing that we are now taking responsibility for changing some of the developments, which are going to be consistent with what is needed out there. This applies, inter alia, to: rehabilitation and rehabilitation of nursing homes. The majority — yesterday — have gathered in the Committee on Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation as well as for new investments. It sits rapporteurs and local authorities around the country today and plans to do so in a 10- to 15-year-old. Now they know that the size that sits out of this period is going to be equal to the two. Has the Prime Minister received any feedback from enthusiastic rapporteurs out there saying yes, now can we really start doing what is needed? I see the senior minister nodding, and she should be very pleased that she has the bulk of the population with her, to the extent that she wants the best of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3212	When it comes to not reaching goals in the short term that an actual nine-year horizon has to reach, I think it's a bad answer to lowering the requirements, lowering the ambitions and responding to Norwegian students that it's ok that your teacher doesn't have depression in mathematics, despite the fact that mathematics is the basis and basis of digitisation, to make sure that they learn the real-time competence that they're going to need in the future in the workplace, because your teacher is at an age when you had a teacher training where you didn't have a requirement for depression in mathematics. I don't think I'm a smart answer to Norwegian students. That is why I believe that we should continue to meet the competence requirements. Therefore, it is demanding to do so for a period of construction. But I think that lowering the requirements because we don't meet them in the short term is the wrong policy, it's going to be wrong for the future, and you don't reach the other goals you set as a nation. I believe that one of the biggest challenges we have in the care of the elderly is that we need to keep a high pressure on building several hospitals in Norway. We're going to need more older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3219	We're going to have skills requirements in many subjects, but the reality now is that many teachers who come out and meet our students, our children and our grandchildren are reserves. They don't have the skills to be in school. It's increased by 40 pst. under your government. It should worry. But finally, one thing that we've had a little time in the debate earlier today: sibling childhood. The Public Health Institute points to the health risk associated with it. They show that among children born in Norway between 1967 and 2010, who have parents from Pakistan, there are as many as 41 pst. sibling parents, and there is reason to believe that there is quite a pressure within the family in that direction. In addition, there are the health challenges. The same Institute points out in a 2007 study that the risk of stillbirth is 63 pst. higher than for children of unrelated parents and the risk of infant death is 142 pst. higher for recipients than for others. My question is, what does the government think about this? I've heard the Left say they're for, now I hear they're against. The progress party has been in favour, and now the representative said that he would tighten this up. The working party is in favour of a ban. What does the Prime Minister mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3227	Firstly, in the Sundvolden Declaration, we agreed that we should conduct such an investigation. The figures that the representative Støre now refers to are those that the Government has ordered from the Institute of Public Health to have a decision-making basis in order to address the issue of the frequency of medical reasons. I believe that for medical reasons we should look at questions related to this. Then we have to see how big it is, and what consequences it has with other people who can also risk having a higher frequency to have children with disabilities. So do we make new lists and rounds around it, which are ethical questions about? Then this from the Workers' Party was lifted as part of the fight against social control earlier in the debate. Then I would say that if we think that families are arranging marriages between cousins and cousins because they want to get more to the country, and that making a rule in Norway about cousins and cousins means that it suddenly ends social control, I think there will be a lot of tremors that come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3234	Preparedness and defence policy and the security of citizens are a fundamental task for any state, and Norwegian security policy is based on NATO membership. Having heard the round between the Prime Minister and the representative Gahr Støre, I understand that the Prime Minister has now dropped the 2-percent mark. Frank Bakke-Jensen wrote in his letter to Stortinget last week that the proportion would be around the same level by 2024, and then he refers to 1.5 pst. Is it the case that the government now stands for what Frank Bakke-Jensen writes in his letter, that the proportion will be around the same level up to 2024, and that the 2-percentage that Erna Solberg has spoken about, that the National Assembly of the Advance Party has spoken out about, and that there was an uprising at the Right National Assembly to get in place, has been abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3239	We haven't lost the target we put in Cardiff. It was that we were going to turn the trend of falling budgets into increasing budgets, and that we were going to work towards the target of 2 pst. in 2024. Then we've made a long-term plan that, when we made the long-term plan, would mean an increase, but we didn't reach it in 2024 with the measures that were within there. It is also stated in the quotation from the letter from former Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who then announced that there would be an increase. Now we are above the trend growth of GDP. This means that new estimates show a slightly lower proportion. Then there's a question about what decisions we take every year in the future. We have at the bottom that the most important thing we do is to achieve the objectives of getting to the investment plan, to get to the long-term plan adopted here at Stortinget. Then we've got the entire state administration and treatment in Stortinget, which will require some new reviews and decisions. In addition, we have the question of how much international involvement do we have with... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3244	There'll be a lot of words here. But what's the summary, is that the government no longer has the goal of going to 2 pst. in 2024. That is what the letter to Frank Bakke-Jensen says, and it is not possible for Prime Minister Erna Solberg to refute – that there must be a greater escalation than what is in the long-term plan, because that is what needs to be achieved. Then it's wise in politics just to say things as they are. We in the Center Party believe that it is unwise not to have that ambition and not to be a good ally and not to approach the 2-percent mark, but it is clear that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left do not have that ambition. It can also be read in the government statement – which is said to be «in the long term» – using vague wording. But in this letter there are very specific wordings, and here it is black and white that the proportion goes down and not up. Then is my challenge to Prime Minister Erna Solberg: Will the share go up in the future, or will it be as her own Minister of Defence has notified the Stortinget about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3249	We present our state budgets every year, and it's only after we have submitted the state budget, that we can measure how far up to the proportion we go. But the long-term plan will be implemented, with the large investments and conversions, and not least with the great effort we have. We are significantly increasing the defence budgets. We've done that throughout the last period of government, and we're doing it in this period. It's going to be a big bet area in every budget. So it's like that, and it also knew The Greatness when we dealt with the long-term plan, that one initially wouldn't reach 2 pst. in 2024. But there are other parts of the state budget with regard to the defence part that do not relate to the long-term plan, for example. how much volume we have in foreign operations and how much participation we have in it. We will probably have some of these that will be added, and then we will carry out the assessments that are now on land, which – some of them – seem to cost something more than what was the framework for the long-term plan. But we are now implementing what is the decision of the Storting, which is the largest increase in the defence budget that has been in long, long periods of time. It's a new day of life for the Defense under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3258	For the first time, we have received a government that does not choose to refer to our national cultural heritage and our Christian and humanistic heritage on the platform. That's what you've been jumping over. Today we have experienced that a government council in the same government has gone out in the media and said that one has the aim of removing what is stated in Section 2 of the Basic Law that the basis of values remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. That's what a government councillor in Solberg has said today. Another government council in the same department says that someone has a different assessment. Does it show that there is a challenge for the Right that you do not write on what basis the government builds on the government platform, when you find in the first week that two different government councils from the same department express themselves differently on what is the government's goal? Is it the government's goal to remove Section 2 or is it not? Shouldn't you have the anchoring of a government platform that all other governments have had before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3263	The government has deep respect for the Storting. The government does not express objectives about how the Constitution should be. It is the Storting that manages the Constitution. The Government does not propose the Constitution of the Stortinget. It is proposed by the representatives of big business. That Left has the view that they do not want Section 2 of the Constitution, Right disagrees, but it is actually a big deal and not a government matter. It should be simple, in terms of the third division of power, to understand who has the constitutional responsibility. It would be most unnatural that a government had expressed itself in its government basis on what would be done or not done with Section 2 of the Constitution. With regard to the question relating to the purpose paragraph, which the representative did not ask, but which in itself was asked earlier, I would like to say that I was fully instrumental in getting a broad consensus, and that we were given the purpose paragraph we have today for primary school and kindergartens. That's what I think works great. It is based on the Christian and humanistic basis of culture. It has important values that I stand for, and which I believe are important, among other things. the important value of forgiveness, which I often talk a lot about, which comes from Christian cultural heritage, which is an important part of moving on here in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3278	The Prime Minister wants us to base the platform on climate. It's at best a minimum solution. The Prime Minister said on yesterday’s presentation that Norway has to meet its climate obligations. It makes me ask: what are the climate obligations of Norway? It is not possible to find a target for Norwegian emissions and what the government thinks we should cut in Norway, in the government platform presented. Dry the Prime Minister, for example. does the Stortinget agree that the 2020 climate agreement target has now been cancelled? It's at least the way we are today. What climate policy and what action will the government take to cut emissions in Norway if it is a government target?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3283	We are going to implement our commitments after the Kyoto agreement for 2020. We're well on track to do that. On the question of what our objectives are, there is now a big message for treatment. The size has agreed that the implementation of the Paris objectives will take place in cooperation with the EU. We do that in a two-part collaboration. One has been there since the first climate agreement, namely that in the quota sector, emissions are measured at European level as to whether we meet our Paris objectives and climate objectives. In the non-quota sector, it is a national target. Now we're going to negotiate that, and in all probability, it's going to be about 40 pst. cut in the non-quota sector. Therefore, there will be a big message that will explain how and how we can achieve these objectives. We who believe in technology, believe that we can't always predict exactly where we get the cuts. But what we are seeing now is that we are getting a big cut in the emissions in the transport sector in Norway. We'll do it through... thank you. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3290	What I hear here is really straight out that the climate agreement's 2020 targets, adopted in the Stortinget, have been cancelled. It is only the Kyoto targets to which it refers and not the climate agreement that we have adopted. What I also hear is that the government has no ambitions for how much emissions we are going to cut in Norway. It's good and good to contribute to the international effort. We're going to do that, but we have an international responsibility to cut emissions here at home, and we have to cut significantly more than just 40 pst. in the non-quota sector. We have a responsibility to do that. It's also underlined in the Paris Agreement, to which the government has joined. I also notice that there are no new measures from the Prime Minister in her response on how to cut emissions in Norway. The transport sector is important. It is a large emissions sector, but it is not just in the transport sector that we have greenhouse gas emissions. I would like to see a government that was hacked more offensively than saying that you hope for the best, and we leave the technology to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3296	We are stimulating that technology and technology development. That's what we do when we make prescriptions and rules related to biodiesel. That's what we do when we make changes to the one-time fee. That's what we do when we finance up Enova to the level that the opposition would have, the opposition to the second part of the climate deal, where SV would not help to commit to giving more money to the climate fund, because we have money to roll out the infrastructure we need, stimulating the companies we need, to bring down the climate emissions. Then we have managed to reverse Enova's mandate, so that they are more climate-oriented. That is why we have moved it to the Ministry of Climate and Environment because it has become more a climate instrument than a purely energy efficiency instrument. So it's true that there are more sectors than transport we have to cut in, but transport is the second largest. We also need to cut agriculture, but it is much harder and more complicated. We have to cut in part of the construction sites. That's the policy for that. And then we have a lot of maps that we've developed together with the different parts of business so that they can be part of the low-emission society. We will systematically work to realize that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3303	This line exchange gives me the need to defend Donald Trump. He's a detainee, even though it may not always work like that. The question I have to the Prime Minister, I believe she is expecting. It is that our Christian and humanistic heritage is not included in the government statement. This is something I have challenged the Prime Minister in the past. On 16 November 2016, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom said: "I believe that we are becoming more tolerant and more open by being safe in our own values and in our own history. Norway is a country that has historically been a Christian country.’ This is an answer that I described as cracking well to my government. I'm going to meet the state government this weekend, and we're willing to forgive. Is it a forgetfulness, or has a deliberately omitted something that is so important to our roots and our history?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3313	In the platform, we have tried to translate some of the values we believe come from our Christian and humanistic cultural base, which is the belief in individuality and both the duties and responsibilities, which I really believe is the core. That's the core of what we have with us from the Luther jubilee, from the Lutheran judgment, from our relationship with God, from each person's relationship with God, and not with any institutions in between. That's the belief in individuals, not just the community. What distinguishes us from many other cultural traditions around us is that we have our own responsibility. In our duties and in our responsibilities, it is at the root of this. Then we may not have used the same words that have been used before, but I believe that the basis is in the value formulas that are there. I'm still saying that we have to be clear on what the value base is, but maybe it's wise to talk about the actual values, not just the starting point, religion and humanism, but rather talk about what these values mean. For example: I think that integration policy will help us if we are clear about what values mean, with simpler words that are understandable, rather than referring to a long historical tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3320	The Greens closely follow who says what about the climate, and not least who does what about the climate, but we also work to take care of the natural diversity. One of the first acts of the government was that responsibility for species such as elk and deer was transferred from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the Ministry of Agriculture. The Prime Minister says that it is because there is a potential for development in active and sustainable land management where a harvest of nature's profits. We believe this demonstrates a sad view of Norwegian nature, and we have commented on it so that you now go from looking at the elk as a living creature in Norwegian nature to a wandering steak. This is not a matter of concern, as we perceive the conservative fundamental view of the Right, and we wonder whether the Prime Minister will consider reversing this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3325	For us Westerners, elk is actually a little bit exotic and a little bit far away. We see most deer, and we see them as beautiful animals in nature, but we also recognize that we should have hunted them. There can be a reinvigoration for farmers and others in order to achieve a better balance in farm incomes and activity in the districts, and also because there are too many of them today. It's a challenge for a one-sided person to drown in vegetation. That's why it's a point for us to look at how this can be a harvest resource, which farms and farmers and others with hunting rights have the ability to use and manage. But then it has to be managed under the Nature Diversity Act. All the administrative criteria laid down by law and regulation are equally fundamental, even if it is seen in the context of agricultural and forestry policies, and there is an opportunity to have more revenue for those who have property rights, including the harvesting of natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3330	It seems that the government's ambition is to make stores of more and more of our well-being. They are talking about women entrepreneurs and ideal actors, but ideal actors are not profiting. Commercials are just profit-driven. Take Child Protection: VG revealed last year that now commercial groups dominate in total. Half of the 20 companies with the highest child protection income in 2016 are owned by five large groups. Four of them are controlled by non-resident purchasing funds, many of them in tax havens. This is backed up when the government says that they will grant the «municipalities the right to choose the freedom to provide child protection». Then I wonder, why does the government think it makes sense to facilitate even more of our child protection services being taken over by groups pushing out the ideal actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3339	The question referred to here is that we transfer the power to tailor the offers around the individual children to the municipalities and to those who work in the protection of children in the municipalities. We know that for a long time, after we got the government of parts of child protection, we received double treatment of cases. We have had good attempts, not least in the municipality of Trondheim, which showed how much better the relationship between child protection services could be achieved by the fact that the municipalities were asking for an offer, where one could specialise more. Then I want to say something about the black-and-white picture being drawn. I've been working on child-rescue issues before as a child-responsor. Some of the best offers have been private. At one point they connected to psychologists and had psychological follow-up of foster homes that had children who needed it long before the public and local authorities did. There's a picture that these are people who don't want development and who don't want to make a good offer. The presence of child protection is primarily important for one thing: the children who need help, and then it is the best help they should have, which is important, and not who drives or is the owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3346	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. I would like to congratulate the creation of an enlarged minority government. Fortunately, it gives room for opposition policy in many and important areas, and that opposition policy can have a majority. It's good for social development, for individuals, for the many elderly who live in nursing homes and now can get their homes cleaned up, and for the children, who now get an hour's physical activity in school. There are important policies for the Workers' Party, because it makes everyday life better for individuals. New government means triple right-wing policy — a government that, instead of securing and ensuring the welfare state, as we know it, leads a policy that helps to weaken important parts of it. The government is talking about tripartite cooperation as if there's a slimy kids playing with – a thing that can be drawn and shaped in various possible ways, and as long as there's a little bit of slim left, it kind of keeps it. It's not like that. The welfare state supports the government have learned to talk about it, but it is not reflected in politics. Words aren't enough. The government is equalising unorganised and organised work and removing incentives to help increase the level of organisation. This is bad news for employees and serious work. It understands the Workers' Party and the NHO, but not the government. A well-organised working life is at the bottom of trust, for small differences between people and for the distribution of power between capital and employees. LO realized early that a political party needed to make good employment policies. The working party understands that this is still necessary. Something else that helps to bring down the welfare state as we know it today is the equality of government with public and commercial services. A strong public sector is an important pillar of the welfare state. All contribute, and all sheep. Hospitals and children's protection have high confidence because it's a little bit of mine, and that's why I pay my taxes with joy. This value core is watered out when government equates public and commercial services. Children’s protection institutions shall be less ‘middle’. The most vulnerable children are going into a system that takes money away from community and children, creates unclear roles and increases bureaucracy – all of this is something that these children need less. The Working Party will give priority to public and non-profit activities in the field of child protection. The right-wing Minister for Equal Opportunities today celebrates the paperwork. In 2013, Høre’s women’s political representative, the Minister, believed that the children were harmed by introducing this. And once again, the right is drawn after the hair where the working party has gone ahead. Politics is about more than words. The time when it was important what you said is too far past for this government, and now for the left too. It is also a political shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3374	The new Government Declaration of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left brings together a common project, six main challenges and a variety of solutions to ensure a sustainable society in the future. We're going to convert the Norwegian economy to create growth, new jobs and get more legs on. We have to meet Norway's climate obligations. We're going to create an inclusive working life. We need to ensure good and sustainable welfare arrangements. We need to reduce poverty and exclusion. And we're going to implement an integration promise. Creating new jobs and investing more efficiently in Norwegian enterprises need to be facilitated. Therefore, we will continue to reduce the level of taxation. We want to increase the base deduction and the discount on working capital in the property tax. We will facilitate employee participation by strengthening the general arrangement for the favourable purchase and allocation of shares and options in our own company. We will evaluate the TAX FUNN scheme and assess improvements. We will continue to reduce business costs by simplifying reporting, laws and regulations. And we will consider how the state can contribute to profitable projects getting access to capital. More jobs need to be created, and more have to be qualified for the jobs. This is why the focus on competence, innovation and new technologies is so important. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each of us to contribute and realize its ambitions. More have to be included in the labour market, and more people have to work longer. There shall be a reform of competence in order to ensure that no one goes out to date. Lifelong learning is essential to equip workers for a rapidly changing working life. It is important that there are good arrangements for filling skills or new professional fillings in the case of leave and transition to new jobs. This is a platform focusing on the challenges facing Norway. It provides a good basis for future work, and we invite the Stortinge to cooperate to create a sustainable welfare society. Finally, a comment to the representative of Terje Aasland on specific measures in the field of industrial policy: I am sure that the representative will find concrete measures if he reads in the industry message, the maritime message, the travel life message or the farm start-up plan. The measures are effective: unemployment is falling and many new jobs are created.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3388	I am very pleased that the political platform has a major focus on integration. Equal opportunities for all and a sustainable welfare state depend entirely on our success. This means that we have to keep immigration at a low level, quickly return those who do not qualify for residence, and make demands to the municipalities about how they meet their new inhabitants and give them real opportunities. But then it's also about putting a heavy strain on sexual mutilation, coercion, social control and culture of honor. In recent days, the Labour Party has had a number of articles on these issues, and some can tell that they have had some aha experiences lately. They have now discovered that there is a high level of social control and honorary culture in our country. To me, it's scary that these themes, which, after all, have been known for very many years, give the Workers' Party aha experiences. I myself have been in this debate for many years and have promoted a number of proposals, but largely experienced criticism. We've met with racist accusations and allegations that we have a bad human vision, and I've often wondered who it is that has a bad human vision. Is it me, or is it those who close their eyes? Norwegian-Iracian Angelica said it so precisely to Utrop recently: ‘I think that there was at that time, and still exists to a large extent, a kind of double standard in the case of children with a minority background and violence. That the authorities dare not intervene because they are afraid to trample on culture and religion.’ In Norway, it has been a little more acceptable because it can be anchored in a culture. At least we have to be concerned that the municipalities are catching up with the children who never meet at the health centre. The guidelines for this service state that the best way to detect care failure, abuse, violence or coercion is to deal with the child and its interactions with parents. The batch of progress will therefore be subject to mandatory health control. The government has taken up a number of the long-standing proposals of the Progress Party for better integration. We will reform the introduction programme and have a high focus on work as part of the programme. We want to introduce empowerment courses for women, set up Norwegian training in entirely new ways, go to fight face-to-face clothing, continue and strengthen schemes such as Jobjeansen, ban gender-to-sex education, have mandatory language tests of all four-year-olds, introduce measures against students being sent to schools abroad where violence and abuse are being carried out, and not least that the action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation is to be followed up. I hope that we can now stand together and show that we are more concerned about supporting the immigrant youth that has tried to tell us this for years, instead of the low level in which the debate has often ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3409	It has been interesting to follow this debate, and it was interesting to hear the Prime Minister, who began by saying that there are many issues of Norwegian policy on which there is a broad consensus. It is part of the well-known right rhetoric that, when there is disagreement, it must be presented as if there were consensus. I see the platform that is now at the root of the debate, and the statement that has been here, as a clear signal that there are now major changes in core values in the Norwegian welfare model. The Norwegian model of society, the Norwegian model, is based on three important pillars. It is a conscious economic policy. There is a form of cooperation between the social partners and the state that is unique to the Nordic countries, yes, perhaps even unique to Norway – in the Nordic region – and on that basis we have the welfare model. In the economic model we see that although it is said that we are to be a society of small differences, it is added to a policy that deliberately increases the differences. And when I ask the Ministry of Finance, I get confirmation that the differences are increasing, even though the Minister of Finance says that the differences are not increasing. It happens with tax relief to those who have a lot, but it also happens with tax reinforcement to workers, to commuters, to people who contribute to this society. We see it in the cooperation model, where some in the government parties have been glad to say that the LO should be clipped. But what they forget is that UNIO, Norwegian Nursing Association and other organisations in Norway are also part of the union between employers and employees, but they have far more isolated roles and are not even heard, for example. in the case of dramatic changes to the Working Environment Act. We also see that joint efforts and demands against social dumping and labour crime are not supported by the government. It's the opposition that's leading that fight. And we see it in welfare policy. In fact, with regard to the Working Environment Act and social protection for those who lose their jobs, the entry of the Left into government has led to a further liberalist direction in an already blue-blue government. Retorics are important, and especially for the government when they say that they should have small differences, and have a policy for the opposite, when they say that tripartite cooperation is important, and weakens it – both by tax deduction and by influence. It is important that you not only see where people blink, but that you also follow where people drive – that is, in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3426	The Government Declaration facilitates sustainable welfare development, but also a safer Norway. It is more important than ever that we arrest our defenses, our police, our judicial system and our criminal services, and ensure that they work smarter, so that the resources find each other, and that the quality and competence of the work done are strengthened. Children are a particularly vulnerable group that needs attention. The Government Declaration strengthens the position of children in many different areas. In addition to strengthening many child protection measures, attention will be paid to the escalation plan against violence and abuse. The rights of children must be reviewed and family protection strengthened. The Child Protection Act is now being converted into a law on the rights of the child, and judges are being given increased powers over children. Violence and child abuse are a social problem, and the exploitation of children is being made in increasingly sophisticated ways. There is a need for police to be more present on the Internet and for their capabilities and competences to be strengthened in this area. We're gonna make sure of that. Police methods are also being reviewed now. We know that so-called untraditional police methods, such as: testing and communication control, is more widely applied to children’s items now. It can be very important instruments, but it's also very intrusive, so the ethical aspect has to be with us all the time. We remember, among other things: The discussion about the Playpen case, where the FBI took over a child pornography website and ran it for two weeks. This led to 900 arrests worldwide, including in Norway. In Trondheim we had two convictions based on that. But it was nevertheless problematic that the evidence was obtained by means of illegal hacking. So this we have to go through, and it's done now. Then it is important to continue working on the reform of the police. We need strong professional environments when complex and sophisticated crime is to be detected, investigated and orchestrated. The same applies to the courts. The declaration now opens up to look at the organisation of the courts. If we're going to get a bigger specialization, especially with regard to children, in the courts, we can't have courts that only have two and three employees. It's high time we set up a community of expertise in our courts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3440	There is a lot of good policy in the government statement, but it is now time that a number of other proposals have been put forward here today, which unfortunately cannot be said to be as good a policy. It's like gardening centres can be open, while Maxbo and Jernia, who largely actually sell the same goods, have to stay closed. Gas stations may be larger than shops, and they may have a larger range of groceries than they do, for example. food shops under 100 m 2 may have. Small grocery stores may have open and sell books, while the local bookstore has to keep closed. Today early we could read: «The government's plan for more Sunday trade is halted. Sundays we shall kiss, believe the great crowd." I believe that it should be up to the individual whether you want to shop on Sundays or not. The Progress Party believes that it should not be a state task to regulate this. It's about freedom of choice. We also don't think it's very lucky for politicians to get involved in what's food, and what's not. We see that people make extensive use of shops on Sundays, whether there are so-called Brustad arches or online action, such as. colonial.no. This shows that people have both the desire and the need to act on just Sundays. I think we should take that into account. That is why it is time, I believe, to look at the legislation for Sunday open shops. Fortunately, trading on Sundays is not prohibited. The Working Party and the other parties behind proposal No. 5, which will keep today's legislation, it seems obvious that the store is open as long as it is less than 100 m 2 and has a minimal selection. I think it's a double standard. You can wonder if the opposition believes that as long as it's most difficult for people to shop on a Sunday, it's okay with Sunday open shops. That's why I think it's remarkable that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party believe that they're better fit to decide when people are going to act than the people themselves. The fact that these parties do not even take time to wait for feedback from the ongoing hearing shows that they do not want to listen to either the consumers or the industry. I think that's strange, I think it's sad, and I think it's directly arrogant. What's the next -- ban on online shopping on holidays? I hope for a more tidy and constructive process from the opposition when, for example, we reach. shall discuss the Government's proposal that municipalities should be able to extend the opening hours of the Vinmonopole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3472	The Blue-Green Government and the Jeloya Declaration point out six major challenges facing Norway. I'll be careful to talk about the first two: convert the Norwegian economy to create growth, new jobs and ensure more legs to stand on meet Norway’s climate obligations, so that we take our share of the responsibility to meet the climate challenge For the Left, going into government is not a question of political tactic. For us, this is about taking responsibility. Over a generation, the Norwegian economy has been heavily dependent on oil and gas. While Norway has taken part in an international fossil energy gold age, we have also contributed to the CO 2-based bathing heat that has encircled the Earth and creates the climate challenges we now have to deal with. The blue-green government is launching a green industrial and environmental policy that can be implemented. It is not a flake-based declaration of moon landing – with breakdown in Mongstad – for which the red-green government stood, or the bankruptcy in Habiol, which reduced Norwegian development of second- and third-generation biofuels far back. Carbon capture and storage in dried oil wells on a thoroughly analysed Norwegian base is one of the major, undissolved industrial opportunities that Norway has, in addition, will make a major contribution to the world’s major climate challenge, created and created by combustion and process industries. The Norwegian oil and gas sector and maritime sector are perhaps the best in the world to put together technology to play together. Here we can succeed, but we have to find funding that does not benefit just one point of output. We have to find the good projects, or clusters of competences, that together break the code at large. Then we can create an environmental technology that the world needs – and will pay for. Cluster is a keyword. The cluster of hens left in the Viking Forest, but with Finnish investors and industrial competence on board, is an example of using biomass from Norwegian forests for both heat and biofuels. Another cluster during establishment is Norwegian Wood Cluster with base in my home town, Gjøvik. Twelve actors in the Mjøs region with the Moelven group and NTNU in the driver’s seat will be in charge of wood construction in Europe. For the next four years, if we want to approach shooting CO 2 back into the seabed and use more of the green gold in Norwegian forests, the left has succeeded with the green shift and the responsibility we assume – both at sea and on land. In the 1970s, when the Mjøsaction had to do to save Mjösa from acute contamination, the world's first biogas plant was established at Hamar. Today, Norwegian Cambi delivers the world’s most efficient biogas plants to the world’s largest cities – mainly under the cities. In Hamar, they use the history and competence to develop one of the world's first biological phosphorus recovery facilities. There is a lot of good Norwegian environmental and industrial culture in Norwegian towns and cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3504	The Jeleia Declaration is a good time for the justice sector. One would not really think that it is the same blue party that is behind the state budget for 2018. Because the promises and measures that are on this platform are going to cost us so many hundreds of millions of dollars that either it's just to enjoy the budgets we're going to get, or it's to be afraid, in the sense that this might be just a lot of empty promises. The new Minister of Justice has so far marked himself with very big and strong words about the bet, but perhaps without the very big content. The new Minister of Justice has said that she should do everything in her power to combat violence and abuse. At the same time, the situation is, for example, here in Oslo, the largest police district in the country, so tight that we could read in the VG a short time ago that electoral cases are lying at the back of the queue. We got the same thing a year ago, but what's been done with that? Overly weak budget, negative development. If it is the case that one should take the government seriously — and one should — when it comes to the point that one should ‘strengthen the fight against rape and increase the police’s competence in this area’, the Minister of Justice has a huge job to do in his budgetary conferences. The Minister of Justice has also boasted a part of the new cybersecurity centre, for which we are all in favour, but which has not been paid in any way. The police director has even said that this must be financed as a spice team with police districts – the police districts, which are in no way budget winners in 2018. In addition to this, an important investigation lift shall be carried out, for which all of you here in this room are responsible. Then I'd say, as the lawyer said, we're going to hope that it's not just a promise, but a real promise. Everyone knows that those who say they should do everything, maybe they don't know where to start. My clear advice is that this declaration must be clearly monitored in the Justice budget, and then the police districts must be given priority. Then there must be a policy that actually sees the chain of criminal proceedings in context. We're happy that the reconciliation queue is now gone, even though we're different in the way we're getting there. I think it could have been done in other ways. But the queue has moved down the system. Now there are huge waiting times in the courts, and there is also an enormous length of proceedings in very many of the police districts. I can promise that the Labour Party will follow the platform carefully. Content in the justice sector: very good, but it's going to require a completely different budget than what we've seen in the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3521	Good infrastructure is important for creating good urban and working regions throughout the country. Good infrastructure helps to give people the opportunity for construction and business activity in our long-term country. Good trajectories between regions are important to contribute to business profitability, to heavy goods transport and to efficient passenger transport. The government will further develop the infrastructure based on new and modern technologies, emphasising maintenance and investment in capacity. The national transport plan for 2018-2029 is the basis of government policy and represents a historic boost to transport. At the same time, the government points out that cost-effectiveness and overall societal benefits in individual projects are important, so that one in the NTP period can realise the most possible project for the greatest possible benefit to society. In 2015 it was 100 pst. State company New Vegar established. New roads have the task of building faster and more cost-effectively. New Roads work holistically with projects from the start, they build longer, interrelated distances, and it is the projects with the highest socio-economic profitability that are prioritised first. The creation of New Roads is as far as you can assess, a great success. The company can point to significant cost savings, and the Jeløya statement says that one will introduce New Roads further projects on the main national and European roads. There are already many who have proposals for new projects in that portfolio. When we know that the revenue of the state will be reduced over the years, it is important that one makes the best use of resources. It is visible in the government statement in several areas. Good infrastructure is a means of creating new jobs. It's challenge number one. Better and safer, on rail and on efficient urban collective solutions, help to create more jobs. Digital services are becoming increasingly important both in the workplace and in our leisure. It is gratifying that the declaration states that one will facilitate increased broadband expansion, among other things. by continuing State contributions to broadband development in the districts. A secure and robust infrastructure is a means of maintaining digital services. Fiber cables to the rest of the world are an important part of the digital infrastructure of Norway and can contribute to the establishment of data-based industry, such as data storage. In order to ensure our good welfare arrangements in the future, more jobs need to be created and more people need to be in work. It takes up the political platform of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3538	A slightly different perspective now: a crucial task for a government is to ensure basic rule of law and that everyone in the country benefits from fundamental rights, no matter who they are, and what they might have done. I think everyone in this room can stand together about that. It is precisely in the face of the worst criminals, like the 22nd of July terrorists and people who rape children, that our rule of law is being tested. The rule of law Norway took the test with a shine on 22 July. But it is with great concern that we now record that the last two Ministers of Justice – Per Willy Amundsen and the current new, Sylvi Listhaug – instead of defending the rule of law and human rights are reducing justice policy to primitive and dangerous feelings. Using the metaphor ‘monsters’ they mobilize to fear and revenge. The rule of law is completely set aside. State Council Listhaug continues, despite much criticism, and at the latest today, with that use of words. In other words, it has not been corrected by the Prime Minister or her party leader. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, said in the evening post a few days ago that ‘it is more important to discuss how we promise the fight against this type of abuse than it is to discuss all the words’. Unfortunately, this is not a debate on semantics. The criticism is directed at a Council of States which does not seem to understand the most fundamental principles of the rule of law. By reducing this to semantics, it gives the impression that the rest of the government is behind this misinterpretation of the most basic principles around our state of law. In this case, it may also seem that the Progress Party only has it in mind. At least they don't have the money. In the fight against sexual abuse against children, the government proposed to increase the budget by 42 million in the autumn. kr. The Children's Ombudsman called this a mockery of the children. It was the Left and Christian People's Party that saved this budget line. The Minister of Justice wouldn't put money on the table. He was pleased to cut out sexual offenders as monsters. The Prime Minister is not here today. I wanted to address this question to her, so I am going to do it in writing. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister still seems that the word monster used for sexual offenders expresses a necessary understanding of our state of law. I would also like to ask her in writing whether she will continue to look through her fingers at the fact that her Minister of Justice, through the use of concepts, undermines the fundamental principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3551	In the Committee on Energy and the Environment, we have a major report on waste and the circular economy. The new Council of State took part in the hearing, so it's very exciting to see how we're going to land this case. There are an incredible number of important areas to address. The government statement states that Norway should be a leading country in the development of a green circular economy. It is a good ambition, but those who work in this field see that reports show that Norway is the worst in the Nordic region, and that the EU is much more offensive in terms of both objectives, requirements and actions in this area. That is why it is now important that we take our responsibility and pledge this message, so that we get it concrete and can help create jobs around the country and contribute to increased value creation. Then we have to look at how the instrument is today, and whether different changes need to be made, so that we can improve the footprint of the industry we have, and how we can achieve better reuse and industry and look at the opportunities that lie there. Then it is that we also have a national responsibility for the management of hazardous waste. Here it will be very interesting when the Right has given the Council of State position to the Left, to look at how we are going to deal with this situation and find good solutions for the future. For example, in this area too, it is important to think about circular economy, new technology development, research, development and competence, and to see how we can help to minimise hazardous waste and manage it safely. The government statement says very well about biodiversity, but most of the points have already been adopted by the Stortinget. It might as well have been said: Yes, we have been told by Stortingen to do this. We haven't gotten that far, but now you're gonna see that happens! The government is kind of running on its own in areas by region. Environmental organisations have been in charge of the government's transfer of responsibility for the management of harvested game species from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which means that the Left Council of State has a little less to do. The criticism is that the overall management perspective of our fish and game species is being lost. In order to manage our game species in a good and sustainable way, we must have a proper, comprehensive perspective on this, we must have the expertise that is at hand. We cannot help different species to jump from department to department. The moose is more than food and entrepreneurial income.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3564	The Jeleia platform determines that the build-up of the Defense will continue. It is a natural continuation of the ham change that took place when the Right and Advance Party took over the government offices in 2013. In fact, the defence budget has increased by 11.5 billion. kr since 2013. We are faced with a very demanding security policy situation, but there is no doubt that the main task of this government is to ensure the security of its citizens and the security of the state. The government is in the process of rebuilding the defence capabilities of our country. The representative Huitfeldt mentioned in his statement that this government had cut off the defence budget next year. It must be an oblivion and an unclear moment for Huitfeldt's representative. The fact is that in 2018 the defence budget will be increased by 7.5 pst. And actually, $3.7 billion. kr. The government will follow the long-term plan and the land-use agreement in Stortinget. So it's 180 billion. kr more to the Defence during the long-term – more than what was in the long-term plan of the Red-Green Government. We need to get stronger alone, and we need to get stronger together with NATO. But we are neither or will be able to defend this country alone. We need a defence that can deter and preserve the sovereignty that is needed to prevent us from being subjected to political pressure and losing our freedom of action. The Government Platform states that Norway should be a credible alliance partner in NATO. NATO is the carrier of Norwegian security policy, and the United States is our closest ally. The United States here asked Europe, and also Norway, to take greater responsibility for its own security. That in itself is not unexpected. The U.S. carries 72 pst. of NATO’s military costs, which are a disproportionate burden on the United States. Norway has black: we invest in new surveillance aircraft, we invest in new fighter aircraft, we invest in new submarines, and we strengthen our intelligence service. These are crucial tasks for NATO to have the necessary situation control in the north, and Norway thus fulfils its role as NATO in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3577	We have received a new blue-blue government that is eager for reforms in the justice sector, which warns of continued centralisation, and which does not see the drama of the dramatic cuts we have received as a result of the ABE reform, which has seriously affected service production and positions within, among other things. police, courts and criminal justice. The last government launched the biggest police reform in recent times, without following it up with sufficient resources. I am concerned that the police are now distancing from many communities and losing an important prevention function. Police in Hedmark and Uppland must now release free prisoners who should have been in custody, because there is no capacity to transport them to prison without leaving large areas entirely without police coverage for long periods of time. Investigations of serious cases such as rape and killing must be de-prioritised due to transport. Today we can read in Folkebladet that there is only one patrol on guard throughout the Middle Troms on the nets during the weekdays. But I still can't see that these are concerns that the new government will take over. In several places, cases are consistently attributed to capacity, even where there is a known perpetrator. In the Inland Police District, 41 new posts were promised in 2017. Still, 23 are not employed. Several times we have asked the previous State Council directly about the consequences of the police reform that is going on around the country. Every time the answer is about the same: the government has made a historic effort on the police. How many planned actions or operations has the Norwegian police carried out in the last five years, e.g.: related to child pornography, related to the illegal possession of a knife or drug? How many hours does the police spend driving detainees to the central detention centre after a number of local arrests have been closed? These are questions I have asked, and which, according to the previous Council of State, there is no answer to. I think that is quite worrying. I believe that issues such as these two are important information in order to determine the impact of police reform and the costs associated with different ways of organising the police. There is evidence of a government that has not had a real overview of the consequences of police reform when it is not possible to answer such questions. With the new platform we've been given, there's no reason to believe that that situation is going to change. The centre will continue to work in opposition to ensure that we have a well-balanced justice sector, which ensures the population, and which is accessible to all citizens, wherever they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3590	I would like to bring forward one of the most important issues addressed in the Jeløia Declaration, and that is child poverty. 10 pst. of the children of our country live in families who have had low incomes over a long time. There are two or three children in each classroom. In my own town, Old Oslo, there are areas where over half of the children have it like this. There it's just become the most common. That is why I am pleased that the government should implement an inclusion clause and that it is a primary objective that we should reduce poverty. Children living in poor families participate to a lesser extent than others in kindergarten, SFO and recreational activities. When we know that 28.5 pst. of immigrants or Norwegians born with a migrant background are in this category, there is reason for concern, as we know that kindergarten is one of the most important areas of early language training and the development of social skills. Such skills are important for children to get well at school. We know that a good start has a lot to say, because the one that falls off early is much more likely to wear later. That is why the Left fought for free core time in the nursery for three-female minors from low-income families during the previous ageing period. Even though almost all five-year-olds go to kindergarten today, there are the few percentages who don't, who need it the most. Then it is our responsibility to lower the threshold as low as possible. Economics should no longer be an argument that children should not be allowed to go to kindergarten. It also provides a better opportunity for mother and father to participate in the workplace, and this has a double inclusion and integration effect for the family. If all children born into low-income families are really to develop their potential, take advantage of the opportunities that exist in our society, and become active citizens, we need to put the effort in place early. That is why I am pleased that the Jeløya statement says that it should be facilitated for children to be able to go to kindergarten. In particular, it is important for children in integration receptions to have free children's playgrounds. It is a good measure for the best of the child and a social investment. However, working against poverty and opportunities requires that we work in several areas at the same time. Kindergarten, SFO and school are very central because they give children the knowledge and skills needed to create a better life than their parents had. Making sure that all children get through school is important to ensure social mobility. Therefore, the Jeløia platform also states that we should support the work of volunteering centres, among others. educational assistance and support and inclusion measures for vulnerable children and young people. We also need to strengthen health centres and school health services, so that they are even better equipped to receive our children and young people when they are in trouble.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3603	It was nice to get honor from the Progress Party for our proposals to combat social control. I look forward to working out a majority for the proposals. By participating in the labour market, most people will be able to support themselves and their families and thus avoid poverty. That's why getting more people to work is so important to the Workers' Party. That's why it's so important to get people over from social security to work. The working party will enable more people to qualify for work. Participation in the labour market also makes it easier to get well integrated. In other words, work is crucial The government states in its statement that they will now implement an integration promise. I'm afraid that once again is empty words. The Labour Party will make it a primary task to enable municipalities and the labour force to get people to work and participate. In our alternative budget for 2018, we therefore proposed 1 000 labour market action places for the ordinary unemployed. The parties to the Government voted against. We proposed 1000 labour market action places for people with disabilities. The parties to the Government voted against. Furthermore, the Labour Party proposed to increase the inclusion of young people in health-related Nav services, with a closer follow-up from Nav and an activity and job reform for young people on graded disability benefits. The parties to the Government voted against. We proposed a quick track for refugees entering the job through increased investment in real estate assessment in reception. The parties to the Government voted against. In our 2018 alternative budget, we also proposed to strengthen Jobjeansen by 50 million. kr. The parties to the Government voted against. Job opportunities are particularly important to strengthen efforts to get migrant women who are not at work into work. Poverty and the possibility of own income and work are related. Participation in the labour market also offers better opportunities for good integration. In other words, work is essential for a good life in Norway. Now I hope we see a government that stands behind proposals that get people out to work – not a government that votes against and makes empty promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3618	Green shifting, green shifting, green growth, green business, green innovation, sustainable growth – everyone uses these words, but almost everyone places different things in them. And besides, how much is speech and rhetoric to appear to be responsible and environmentally conscious? What counts, of course, is action, it is initiative, it is decision and there is money in the budgets. Otherwise, everything continues as before. Nothing indicates that something is changing with a new platform and a new declaration from the Prime Minister. In particular, there is one field in which SV has been involved in the autumn, namely the electrification of the coast and the development and phase-in of zero-emission technologies on boats and in the maritime industry. If we place strict demands on tenders, and if we stimulate and set aside funds for shore-side electricity, for research and development in shipyards, etc., Norway stands first – not just to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions, but to export technology and knowledge. We have all the prerequisites for success in this country. Two examples in which I believe the government has failed in total: firstly, the offer of coastal routes, which we dealt with here not long ago, where a golden opportunity to impose strict emission requirements, failed – 10 years ago. It was just a little bit narrowing down. Secondly, in the autumn of 2015, the Stortinget government launched measures to ensure that all county and municipal ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new tenders and routes under their own control. Despite this decision, the government failed to meet this requirement when the law on public acquisitions was revised. Some municipalities, such as Hordaland, is good – on its own – and offers the tenders for zero-emission ferries. But that is not a government requirement. Due to the government's training, SV resumed the case in spring 2017 and received a majority – against the votes of the government parties – for the following: ‘The government is asked to draw up requirements under the Public Acquisition Act that all new ferries and scheduled boats use low or zero emission technologies when the situation indicates that this is possible.’ Still, the government has not delivered. The government fails, it does not follow up and does not give the expression ‘green conversion’ any content, lower emissions and Norwegian business development opportunities. I hope, of course, that I am wrong about the government that is now established, and that they take up the glove and see the possibilities of green shipping, in the green maritime industry, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3647	Safe and competitive jobs are the basis for the well-being of Norway. It's the value creation that happens in companies, which forms the basis for us to afford to have a rugged welfare state that creates a security network for all residents of the country. Norway is not the cheapest, nor should we be. We will deliver on quality and innovation in such a way that we can still be competitive against our trading partners. If you can't be the cheapest, you must be the best. Competence and innovation are closely linked. Competence gives the ability to see new opportunities and gives the ability to develop ideas for a product. Developing skills in enterprises provides the basis for new jobs and growth, while helping to create safer jobs by maintaining competitiveness. Norway is known for having skilled and knowledgeable workers, and this is a competitive advantage that we need to develop further. Yesterday, Prime Minister Solberg said no one should go out on the date of Norwegian employment. The government will therefore develop a new competence policy that responds to today’s challenges. This is the Christian People's Party entirely in agreement. In spring 2016, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative on the introduction of a CompetenceFUNN scheme according to the tax FUNN scheme model. This proposal was not accepted by other parties. The new government statement now shows that the CompetenceFUNN scheme is mentioned. That is good, and I look forward to the government coming to Stortinget with such a proposal. In my home country of Møre and Romsdal we have a world-leading maritime cluster. This cluster could never have survived in a high-cost country if they were not in the front competence. This is an example of enterprises that would benefit from a CompetenceFUNN scheme, which provides an additional incentive to invest valuable hours of work in raising skills. In particular, it is important in industries that go through challenging times, and when investing in empowerment may seem difficult. Such an arrangement must be arranged in such a way as to strike at all stages of the enterprise. Both skilled workers, engineers, managers and many more must be able to benefit from such a scheme. A competence reform is to equip Norway for the future. At a time when automation and digitisation make progress faster than before and the requirements for competence are increasing, we can't afford anyone's competence to go out of date. This must be a joint project involving both the individual, the social partners and the state. This is in good tradition in Norway, where the Norwegian model is chiseled out of well-functioning tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3662	I have to be allowed to congratulate that the government after much about and but managed to get to an extension. Because there is no new government that we see, there is no new course, and if you read the government statement, the content is largely something that many in this room could sign – it is so general. But then there was this with words and actions, and I am therefore excited about what the extended blue-blue government will do, and what to say in the future – both individually and not least together. The Prime Minister stated that the government would ‘support the positive development of the districts’. In the same breath, she defined the whole of North Norway as a district. Then you get a little worried, because reading a Jeløya platform, district policy is the stepchild. We have districts in more parts of the country than just in the north, and these days it is, for example. many municipalities in the south looking with concern at the proposed change in the district index. I hope, therefore, that we will now get the government on a stronger district effort – or I will say North Norway bet – with more and stronger instruments in the future. I still suspect that it must happen in this hall. Stronger means of development across the country, along with the people who live everywhere, would benefit us all. Indeed, natural resources are scattered throughout the country, and more jobs would be created, and increased export income would secure us for the future. It is the resources and the competent people in the districts – along with the lower oil price and therefore also the crown price – that have made things go well in the districts. Therefore, developments are taking place despite, and not because of, the government's past efforts in relation to everything from reducing municipalities to poorer commuting conditions. The size has ordered a task reform for the states that contribute to increasing popular governance and reducing state over-management of our regional population election level. So far, regional reform has become a purely structural reform in which a new division of counties has been established which is in strong conflict with the wishes of the counties themselves. This government is to implement it. The government also says that the new states should have a major role in regional social development. It must mean increased responsibilities in the fields of industrial development, transport and overall planning, and not least the means to monitor them. The government will be given the chance to present new proposals in these areas and not least follow up on what is the bulk of the population. If the government doesn't follow up, the Central Party is in any case ready to actively contribute to the majority here on the Stortinget for proposals that give the state's social development a real content. In transport policy, the main picture is that the Jeløya Declaration follows an established consensus on the civil side. Decisions are taken in the national transport plan and the budgets which are mainly followed up. I'm glad. It's called: «The government will continue to reduce the maintenance run in the road sector.» That's good. It will also be exciting to see whether it is the sector that owns the most roads in this country, namely the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3682	It should be noted that a social-liberal party that the Left has joined the government. More to those who need it the most, is an important value for the left. This is why addicts, mentally ill, people with disabilities, chroniclers and children are exposed to various types of care failure have a special place in our policies. The goal is equal opportunities for everyone, and then we have to treat people differently. Those who have bad odds will get better cards on their hands. We need a strong and good health service funded by the public, where everyone experiences an equivalent and good treatment, regardless of diagnosis and social status. In particular, patient groups who have felt poorly treated, often mentally ill, drug addicts and chroniclers, should now be lifted, and treatment provision should be improved. One of the perhaps most important reforms left has been working systematically over several years is the need for changes in drug policy. Now, drug reform is part of government policy, and use and possession are to be met with social policy and care, not punishment. From before we are of course proud of the escalation plan for the drug field, which with this government will be followed up further. Several detoxification sites shall be established, research shall be strengthened, the LAR shall be improved, post-protection shall be improved, more teams shall be set up around the users in order to prevent relapse and ensure good rehabilitation, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. Rest-dependents shall note that the Left is now in government. All other vulnerable groups should be included. For example, children who are related shall be followed up more closely. Older chroniclers shall be given more follow-up at home through more and better use of welfare technologies and mobile health solutions. There will be further work for a dementia-friendly society, and it will smell good food from its own kitchens in the municipalities' institutions. We know that there is a lot of good health in good nutrition and interpersonal relationships. This government is both to strengthen and modernise health services in municipalities. Work is in progress on an economically obliging escalation plan for children and the mental health of young people. For the Left, children and young people are the most important thing we can invest in. The question is not whether we can afford a proper and good escalation plan – the answer is that we cannot afford not to. This view is made clear in the Government Declaration, which aims to prevent where possible, and emphasises the priority given to early action and prevention. If we do that, we will be able to have great savings in an expensive specialist health service, and people can live a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3695	I also want to start with congratulations and congratulations to the new government. It has to be a little unreal for the Left people across the whole country who are seriously surprised when many of us in the election campaign said that a voice to the Left was a voice to the Progress Party and to the Listhaug. Fuel charges, toll usage, bureaucracy – yes, it has increased with the Progress Party in government. The philosophy of the party of progress has collapsed into reality, we've seen that in the last four years of opposition and election struggle. It should be cut in fees, but in position this increases. We switch it in, says the Progress Party, on average, it's given easier for most people. Dear friend! This option reduces the number of people who have the least, and makes it easier to get to those who have the most. I'm a social democrat, I think community solutions are the best, and everyone gets better when everyone's good. But the words must be followed up by action. If you want the differences to be reduced, you must stop actions that increase the differences and do not reverse them. For four years, a historical thread has gone through the contributions from the Right and the Progress Party: an attempt to create the impression that the Labour Party is opposed to change and innovation. I want to say as Colberg, who has often said: there is no political force in Norway that has contributed more strongly to the development of industry and innovation in Norwegian society than Norwegian social democracy and Norwegian trade union movement. Norway and the Labour Party have not followed the prescription of the right forces on tax cuts, weaker welfare societies and weaker labour law schemes, on the contrary. This is precisely Norway, with small differences and strong communities. The call from the Prime Minister for all of us to participate in the creation of a sustainable welfare society is a little strange when one goes free of the incomes of the municipalities by removing the municipal property tax. It is forgotten that the rhetoric about property taxes and discrimination against foreign and Norwegian – that was the worst, and very unfair. The property tax is just like foreign and Norwegian. The fact that welfare services are to be financed is forgotten. Now the welfare services are to be modernised. And one wants more in work, use the whole country. But how? By still pulling away carpets during travel life with another tax boost, is it still not possible to bet on broadband in the districts? Dear opposition! Now we have to stand together to get a different direction – for more communities, smaller differences and a government that takes care of our common cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3708	The Jeleia declaration is a guarantee that the adopted long-term plan and the land-use proposition are implemented and funded. It shall be paid regardless of the price tag. It's the decision of the Storting. The plan will be financed regardless of current cost estimates. It is precisely this that has been the weakness of all previous long-term plans. In such a perspective, it is not entirely unthinkable that the implementation of all measures in the LTP and the land-use proposition will bring Norway close to 2 pst. of GNI. The government's objective in the aid policy is to promote Norwegian interests. Norway first, you might say. Education provides knowledge, knowledge gives creativity, creativity means ideas for entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship means profitable value creation, value creation means trade and exports, trade and exports create jobs, jobs create economic growth, economic growth means better living standards, better living standards means more stability, more stability means less external dependence – all this provided by a good, democratic governance. Overall, this results in increased global growth and reduced migration. Such developments are in the interests of both Norway and poor countries. In foreign policy, the government will stop all financial support to organisations in the Palestinian territories that encourage violence or promote hateful expressions, racism or antisemitism. There's no shortage of candidates. The Palestinian authorities pay wages to convicted terrorists in Israeli prisons. Mahmoud Abbas said this will continue. Palestinian authorities have named 28 of their schools after terrorists and three after Nazi collaborators. School books published by the Palestinian authorities glorify terror and show maps without Israel. School books used in UNRWA schools, praise terrorist acts, say that Jews have no sacred places in Israel, and that they have no rights to the land. Regardless of the number of times reported, all statistics presented show that non-Western immigration has not given rise to economic growth but, on the other hand, a large budget deficit. It determines all serious calculations and research reports. The last Holmøy report shows that non-Western immigrants averaged a life cycle leading to a public financial deficit of 6 million. NOK 11 million. kr, depending on whether it is male or female. So state councillor Sanner has a lot to deal with. I have registered that the Workers' Party has submitted proposals for tightening up immigration and integration policies. These are recycled Progress Party proposals, which the Labour Party had previously left all its rhetorical and political strength to fight. I have them in front of me here: «Sustainable immigration. Sustainability Committee of the Progress Party 18 August 2013 » All the proposals of the Labour Party are found in it. This has been promoted by the Progress Party, and the Labour Party has voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3726	For four and a half years, the government has provided a range of non-social cuts, such as: reduction in the child benefit to disabled people, cut back in support of multi-disabled people, end-of-life taxes and cut back in the car support system – all of this and more while we have increasing poverty among families with children. The Prime Minister says that the workline must be strengthened, with the following statement: It must be paid to work rather than to go to social security. This scares me, for the rightmost thing is suspiciously much like cut off in the welfare of people. How else should the government increase the difference between income from paid work and social security contributions? It is the social partners who are negotiating wages, and it is already worth working today. They also say that it is a competitive advantage for Norway that we have a well-functioning tripartite cooperation and a high level of organisation, but there is nothing in the government platform that the government will take action to increase the level of organisation or to maintain the level of organisation that is at present. On the contrary, they say that they "recognize" those who choose to be unorganized. It stands for me to be strongly opposed to building on an organized working life. It is simply the organised working life that has largely built the welfare state of which we are all the products. It is the organised labour market that ensures skilled workers and high productivity. The government admits that a high level of organisation is a protection against non-serious social actors, but they will not strengthen this relationship by contributing to an increase in the level of organisation. We see today a highly brutalised working life, with a high proportion of contracted labour force, stronger criminal networks in the workplace and a great use of temporary employment. Today's youth is the first generation of young workers to face a harder and more brutal working life than the generation before them. So we are going the wrong way, and this government is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3739	The election result in 2017 was a trust statement for Højre’s project to modernise and equip Norway for the future. After four years in government, voters gave a majority and a mandate for Erna Solberg to continue. The government has now expanded with the Left, and there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party is the government's preferred partner. Marit Arnstad today presented the term'solberg parliamentarism'. Clearly, the representative Arnstad must have forgotten the difference between how a majority government and a minority government work. While the red-green government agreed with itself in the closed rooms, the real debates in Parliament are now taking place. Now the main points of view of the parties are made clear, and together we work here in the Stortingen to reach good consensus. It may seem that the voters appreciate this form of work the most. Instead of asking questions about how the civil majority works to agree on a good policy for the country, I will question the opposition's new form of work. In stark contrast to the responsibility shared by the four non-socialist parties, we see an increasingly fragmented opposition, and we see an opposition that is most concerned about saying no to government policy before they see the facts and what the people involved are concerned about. Today, a majority say no to the government's proposal to simplify the rules on Sunday trade. The majority do so before a concrete proposal has been submitted and only a few days after a thorough NOU has been sent to the hearing. Many of the proposals in the NOU are constructive and not primarily liberalising. One of the suggestions is that all independent shops below 150 m 2 should be able to remain open. That means that all major shops have to stay closed. Where many shops today have been open all Sunday, the selection proposes to limit the opening time to after church time and to a total of fewer hours than today. A number of smaller shops will probably choose to stay open, while many employees who are currently working in the large garden centres will be freed from such practice. This is knowledge that the Workers' Party and the Centre are obviously not interested in hearing about until they say no to all the changes today. The fact that the opposition is not aware of knowledge until they conclude should be of much greater concern than that the government parties may have different starting points prior to open-ended negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3755	What should probably concern the representative of the government party more is that there is such a daunting lack of knowledge behind much of the policy that the government stands for. No government has had and has spent as much money as this government – 230 billion. kr more – at the same time they manage to increase the differences in the country. We now hear state councils and representatives going up to the pulpit and boasting that it has become a little bit more to one and a little more to the other. Yes, it would just be missing when you have so much money, that it wouldn't be a little bit better in the railways, for example. But how has it become for those who have the most difficulty? It's getting worse. We see that the income of the low income groups has fallen. The housing aid, which is one of the main social instruments for people to live safely, is lower in crowns now than it was in 2009. Many of the most disadvantaged schemes are cut. Last week we received a Nav report that shows what SV has said all along: there is no need for social security in Norway. It is not the disability benefit, the sick pay or the daily allowance that threatens well-being in the future. There are some others who are cellar rings in this big game. It is those who are engaged in very profitable crime — economic crime and labour crime — who trick and mix with businesses and who avoid paying taxes and participating in hard work and often place their businesses in tax havens. They cheat us for hundreds of billion dollars every year. Had the government put in the harness to get some of this money, we could have stopped talking about the threat to well-being, because we could afford that only everyone paid the tax you're going to pay. We had been able to afford the green shift and to secure ourselves against dangerous climate change in the future. In addition, we could have lowered the tax for people with small incomes who pay a lot of taxes today. There are people who need tax havens. Contrary to what the government has done, that is to say, to give them the great tax havens with the great wealth, the great inheritances and the large incomes. In this government statement we have heard of one of the new children of the heart of this government, namely to protect those who have the largest palaces from the terrible property tax. If you believe that the property tax is unfair, you can introduce a compulsory deduction and protect those who have the most difficulty. The government doesn't -- it protects those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3768	When I for the first time occupy the pulpit, it's a real pleasure that I'm going to talk about integration, which has been absolutely essential for me to stand here today. In the Jeløya Platform for the Extended Government with the Left, Right and Advance Party, integration is a main focus of great attention and the value of a diverse Norway is clearly highlighted. The social debate continues to highlight the need for an integration promise. It is therefore very positive to be able to read on the government platform that a comprehensive reform of the integration field is being put in place, with the aim of achieving faster and better results. When it comes to integration, it means getting more people into work and getting more newcomers integrated into the Norwegian community. It shall include, inter alia: to facilitate the granting to asylum-seekers of work permits and to facilitate the combination of participation in the introduction programme with regular work. In this way, language training can be combined with work practices. It is also very important to facilitate Norwegian education for those who do not already have primary school, because we know that this is a weakness for some groups of the population. For children in low-income families, differentiated stays in the SFO and the provision of free half-day space in the SFO will allow for faster socialisation and language training. It also provides for a faster inclusion of all children in integration receptions through free kindergarten, and for more children to be able to participate in leisure activities, the quota support scheme will be reinforced and simplified. In order to support families with children in order to have a more predictable life, housing support must be strengthened and there is an important general objective of no one being homeless. We also know that volunteering contributes to the creation of belonging and thus contributes to the strengthening of our society, and the Left is therefore pleased that support schemes for non-governmental organisations that promote social inclusion in local communities, which work to strengthen minority women's rights, and which combat honorary culture and negative control, should be strengthened. We are also pleased that voluntary legal aid schemes are strengthened, so that the legal protection of economically vulnerable groups is safeguarded. There is a broad consensus in society that we want a safe and inclusive society, and in order to contribute to this, it is important to fight racism, discrimination, anti-semitism, social control and prejudices based on sex, identity and ethnicity. Then it has to be facilitated, and we have to create spaces and arenas that give more people the opportunity to evolve, so that everyone can have the opportunity to contribute to the community. The left is very pleased that this is a clear objective in the Jeløya platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3783	Recently, we have heard that there has never been a more ambitious declaration of government for the environment. At the latest today, Ms Bru said: ‘Never before has a government platform been so ambitious on behalf of the environment.’ If that's true, it's worse than I thought. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said here in Stortinget: ‘We need to meet Norway’s climate obligations because we are to take part in the responsibility for meeting the climate challenge.’ But the Prime Minister does not intend to meet our climate obligations. She has planned to break with the targets of large emissions reductions in Norway by 2020. Not only should the 2012 climate agreement be broken, the government has obviously forgotten it too. One word is not mentioned in the Jeløya platform. To VG 10. March 2014 the then Environmental Policy Spokesman for Right, Nikolai Astrup said: ‘We will not be able to meet the climate agreement if we do not have a change of pace in climate policy.’ No, it has to be safe. It's almost four years since the opinion fell. For four years, the government has been able to change gear and speed up climate policy. Instead, they've had a bad course. On Monday this week, the Minister of Oil and Energy went out in the evening post and confirmed what most of us have seen: «Oil policy is firm, even with the Left in government.» In addition, the Council of State claims that the government always places emphasis on environmental advice in the field of the designation of new areas for the oil industry. It's with respect to report the pure deafness. Since the fall of 2013, when the Right and Advance Party took over the government power, and until the day before the new government joined, they have not followed one of the environmental warnings that have come against oil drilling in vulnerable sea areas – not one of the warnings. They've all run over. By the same week as the expanded government joined, the Minister of Oil and Energy was able to allocate more fields to the oil industry in vulnerable areas, some as close to 10 kilometres from land along the coast of Tøndelag and Møre. During the 24th round of the hearing, the Polar Institute warned against opening oil activities in 36 of the proposed blocks. The Environment Directorate warned against 20 of the blocks. Nevertheless, the government chose to release all these blocks — with the risk of harm to seabirds, the huge biological production at the edge of the ice and important growing areas for fish. If the claim of the most ambitious environmental statement is to have a very low degree of credibility, this government must withdraw the permits for oil drilling in the most vulnerable marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3816	I noticed during the government statement yesterday that the Prime Minister has begun to talk about having a policy for Norway as a whole. Unfortunately, it helps so little when a policy of ever stronger centralisation is pursued. One indicates that the municipal reform should continue, despite the fact that the majority of this room has explicitly stated that there is a voluntary nature. On Monday, a public meeting was held in Ås, Akershus, under the direction of County State, on border adjustment between Ås and Ski, despite the fact that the majority in this Chamber have insisted that that process should be stopped. Once again, the future of the cannon offices is in jeopardy. In Rome, the expansion of the janitorial office of the Bear's Serpent has been halted, and similarly other places in the country are also taking place. After the Ministry of Justice in May said that the map had been drawn out, the Directorate of Police has been given the task of restarting the process. There are cases where there is no link between the new municipal borders and the new county councils. It is also made clear that politicians are not going into the process. It's the Police Directorate that's going to make the decisions. This must the Storting put his foot down for. This is a policy for further centralisation. Then we have the post office – the post office, which is no longer going forward. On the basis of the proposal sent by the government at the hearing, one will have to experience in the future, around Norway, that if one has received mail delivered on Friday, one must be careful to wait until Tuesday in order to receive mail next time. One often talks about opportunities in Norwegian districts. Yes, there are many opportunities in Norwegian districts, many ideas lying there, but the question is how the policy is used to facilitate. In today's society, we send fresh Norwegian salmon to sushibars in Asia in three days. In Andøya, there's a research rocket that goes 2,000 miles into the atmosphere. But in a modern society in 2018, we're not going to be able to deliver the mail to people every day. This is a policy that I expect the majority in this Chamber to stand up to. The blue-blue government we now have has a policy for ever stronger centralisation. The majority have to build a policy that points in a different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3833	In the debate after the government statement was ready, many criticised the platform for being vague and unclear. It's a criticism I disagree with. Yes, in the case of climate and refugees in particular, there are a lot of ‘assessed’, ‘look at’ and ‘explored’ in this platform. But apart from that, the platform's opposite is characterized by a pretty distinct right triangle. There is a continuous blue thread in the entire document, which is about privatisation and need testing of well-being and our universal arrangements. I was reminded of how serious it is when we just got new numbers saying that over 100,000 kids are growing up in poor families. There are 100,000 kids who are at risk of not participating in the same line with other children. While wealth has increased in Norway, the number of children growing up in poor families has increased by 15 000 and so on, since 2013. Last week, Bufdir presented a report on government action against child poverty, and UNICEF called it all embarrassing. What is the answer in the government platform to this big challenge? Well, there is more need-to-know testing of welfare systems and services. This is dangerous, because more testing can create poverty traps when the services and schemes tested are lost, for example. if you get a job. Poverty measures such as stamping, instead of welfare solutions and community solutions for all can be stigmatising. Not least, it may also weaken the state of welfare. What is needed is the opposite of strengthening the universal arrangements for all, such as raising child welfare. But there's no trace of it in the Yeloya statement. The universal well-being, which balances differences and offers equal opportunities to different people, is further weakened when this government statement provides for competitive outsourcing and privatisation testing. The statement states that Community solutions are to be equated with the commercial actors taking out money from people’s welfare offerings. The government also has the privilege of calling privatisation ‘female welfare innovation’, but the speech of the figures is clear: in privatised welfare services, there is a lower wage and pension for employees. These are women's dominated professions, and therefore the government's new talk about women's welfare innovation is a pure attack on equal pay. In the context of the privatisation of child protection, there has also been an enormous need for control. We've been going through a series of revelations lately. But also that area should be opened up for more privatisation, and I am very happy that there is no majority for in this room – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3848	I'm glad we've got a strong government on the bourgeois side that's going to build a modern Norway based on historically anchored values, where we've seen people's abilities, challenges and needs in the center. We're lucky to be living in a country where the confidence in democracy is high, and where people are basically familiar with free, inclusive and secure. It's our job to keep these values. Norway has been the most digitised country in the world, which has contributed to a safer and safer society. People get in touch with each other more easily and get quick access to information. Digital developments have significantly simplified our everyday lives. The government has an offensive approach to digital development. Norway shall be in the forefront of developing and delivering digital services to citizens and businesses. Such a objective shall rely on trust in the functioning of the system and networks and on good information security and the provision of privacy. There are many positive aspects of being a digitized society, but it also makes us vulnerable. In parallel with digital developments, the risk picture in society has also changed. Threat assessments show that emerging states use different means of accessing sensitive and sensitive information. ICT is increasingly used as a tool for criminal acts. Several traditional forms of crime are now moving rapidly to the digital space. It is necessary to strengthen preparedness for attacks targeting individuals, institutions, businesses and the civil sector. ICT security is an important focus area in the Jeloya platform. To meet the challenges, it is being worked widely. Close cooperation between private and public actors, between civil and military activities and across borders is facilitated. We need to be able to put in place the right measures to reduce the risk of outcomes and attacks on digital infrastructure and systems, and to reduce the risk of being exposed to criminal acts via the network. Work will require a continuous focus on legislation, organisation, infrastructure security and the long-term building of ICT competence. Maintaining the security of people will in the future not only be about what is happening in the physical world, but increasingly also in the digital world. We're talking about an accessible and visible police force, and understandably we're thinking police patrols in the street picture. In the future, it should be just as natural to think patrols online. We are a country that has the tradition of working together to solve demanding challenges. Work is in progress. The goal of a safe people in a safe country shall apply to all arenas — including the digital one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3865	This is a day to debut on – and first: Welcome to the Left in government in layers with the Right and the Advance Party. The Government statement gives an important signal about how we will control the country at the time it arrives. The six main points point point out the main objectives of the new government. For the Right and me, it is important to focus on creating new jobs so that one can ensure well-being in the future. We have to create to share. I come from an area in the West that has been hard hit by the changes in offshore and maritime industries. Many along the coast drew a sigh of relief because there was no government change with SV and the Environment Party of the Greens, which will wind this industry. However, thanks to good government tools, it would be possible to meet these challenges in the short term, but there are also forward-looking industrialists, business owners and contributors who have demonstrated their capacity for innovation and change. If we are to create jobs and a strong Norwegian ownership of profitable businesses, we must continue with these measures. This government has the policy and the means to do this, not reverse and sedentary. There are good measures such as reducing taxes on working capital, improving the tax FUNN scheme, extending the Catapult system, simplifying business reporting, ensuring a sound framework for oil and gas industries, investing in the marine environment, testing facilities at sea and land, seed funds and much more. However, a key factor in the closure of business in strong international competition is a well-developed infrastructure. Transport and infrastructure in general is not a choice between transport modes – road-to-road, sea-to-sea – but a structure that adapts business. Free E39 with e.g. Habast and Møreaksen are projects that are involved in setting the basis for future value creation. We know that 60 pst. of the population of the world cage in the coastal areas, and 70 pst. the surface of the land consists of the sea. Then this is the right bet. There are the most important future resources in the oceans, and we have to take care of the competences we've been working on along the coast for hundreds of years. However, a well-functioning society is not only about business but also about good measures for work and good growth conditions, with early efforts and good health services. The municipalities are then key to close. They must be met without too much earring of funds from Storting, which works badly. Local government reform has shown that municipalities are resilient and willing to meet the challenges that arise. It's part of securing the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3876	In the government statement, the Christian People's Party lacks formulations that link government policy to our Christian and humanist cultural heritage. If we do not relate to the past and heritage of Norwegian culture, we risk losing sight of what is and have been important to us as communities. Without clear common values, we are at risk of a vacuum of value, a failure of integration and the establishment of parallel societies. In the Norwegian Constitution, it is the Christian and humanistic heritage that is highlighted in view of the crucial role that the legacy still has in our country. To understand and respect the symbols of other religions and cultures, we need to recognize and value our Christian heritage, symbols, festivals and narratives. The Christian People's Party wants this legacy to continue to be significant for future generations, not primarily as a chapter in the history books, but as a resource for life-meaning, mastering, ethical reflection and solidarity. The government statement states that the school is an important field of activity, but nothing is said about the school reform we adopted just before Christmas: the introduction of school-level teacher norm, which gives all students, wherever they live, equal access to the school's most important resource, namely the teacher. We in the Christian People's Party think that's a little strange, all the time this is a decision that the government parties have also undertaken to implement, in line with the 2018 budget agreement. The Christian People's Party wants a school where the children will be formed to become whole people with understanding of others and understanding of society, and who themselves will participate in building the communities of the future. For the Christian People's Party, the norm is for our children to be seen, in a school that's about more than grades and just professional achievements. If we are to do this, we need teachers – several teachers who can see each student, build relationships and not least adapt training to the needs of the student. Early intervention is essential to prevent problems when children get older and to ensure that action is taken as early as possible. The OECD has concluded that increasing teacher density gives the highest added value at the lowest levels and is most important for low-skilled pupils, students of foreign origin and students with a low socio-economic background. Then it will be an important task for us politicians also to take action that can recruit more teachers for the profession, it is necessary. Teachers, parents and students have long seen the need for more teachers in school. The Christian People's Party has listened to their experiences and recommendations and fought in place a teaching norm, because our children deserve it. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has today confirmed that it will be a central task for the government to ensure that this is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3887	This debate has been a lot at home, now we're going a little bit into the world. We are entering an increasingly internationally demanding situation. We see increased tensions between countries, brutal wars in Yemen and Syria. Land rusts instead of rusting down. In the United States, political leadership is far from our values. We thought we were living at a time when we were tearing walls, and then we were living a time when someone wanted to build walls. In this situation, Norway can choose one of two: we can choose to adapt, or we can choose to use our vote. We can choose to be a counterpower. On a case-by-case basis, we see that the blue-blue government is choosing to adapt, rather than raising its voice for human rights and international cooperation. On the issue of nuclear weapons, the government chooses to override the nuclear powers, against the majority of the United Nations. In the next week, this room will decide to carry out an investigation into what the ban on nuclear weapons means for Norway, which will enable Norway to comply with the ban. It is against the voices of the Right and the Advance Party. The ban on nuclear weapons is the most promising disarmament initiative since it's called the war. Norway must be on the right side of the story. We must be a propellant, not a brake block in the fight against nuclear weapons and for disarmament. On the issue of the US women’s hostile oral basket rule, which is at the expense of women’s lives and health, Norway could take an international leadership role as a gender equality nation, but one chooses not to do so. The paradox is that the longer the United States slips away from us, the more the Norwegian government insists that the relationship is better than ever. It's nice that the Prime Minister made a good mood in the White House, but it doesn't hold in good faith with a man like Donald Trump. While the war in Yemen is becoming increasingly brutal, the government chooses to vote against a proposal to stop the sale of arms and armaments to Saudi Arabia and its allies. And while the tension between Russia and Europe is increasing, the government chooses to be with the EU and the United States to increase the tension, rather than stand up for a deflation policy and for a new arms race. My appeal to the government is: Stand up for Norwegian values. Stand up for equality, for disarmament, for relaxation and for international cooperation. We must not adapt to an international order that is becoming increasingly polarized and contributes to more war and more uncertainty. We have to fight it and be a counterpower. It could be Norway – if we want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3900	At the top of Norway, as the dot over the i, is located North Norway. Northern areas and north-eastern policies may be the most important area in which this government and the Grand Duchy must invest to create a sustainable welfare society, new jobs and a safer Norway. To create a global welfare society, the world needs more food, more energy, new environmentally friendly solutions and security stability. The northern regions have these resources that the world is asking for, and the Jeloya Declaration shows the way and a political direction. It's been going very well in North Norway in the last few years. Economic developments are greater than in the rest of the country, and job creation is ‘all-time high’. The biggest problem now is too little people, and we've become addicted to commuting labour from the south. This should give a hallelujah voice at the group meetings in the Central Party. But no, when the Prime Minister pointed out how great things are in North Norway, Arnstad's representative reiterated that it is fine that things are going well, but it does not help when the government weakens the public sector that is going to interact with business locally. Well, there's a question of whether the communities in North Norway feel weakened when, according to the Northern Norway Investment Survey, public and private investment is planned in the region for record 700 billion. kr towards 2025. I don't think so many people are familiar with the black paint of the government's district and northern policy. In today's debate, the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, criticised the government for business failure, and he has also criticised the government's north-eastern policy. Well, this government has e.g. a maritime report, an industrial report, a travel life report — with policies that are particularly good for the north. The fact that the government has tripled the transport investment in the region is also a good policy for the north. Majors did not mention in their contribution important north-eastern policies such as defence, climate or security policy. The best thing we can do for the future is perhaps to communicate better to the part of the country in order to give positive impetus to industrial investment and political priorities from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3917	Today we have a blue-blue Wednesday with debate on a new government platform. For everyone who knows the meaning of blue Monday, it is clear that this is not a good day. André Bjerke has said that it is not easy to express itself clearly, it is easy to express itself unclear. That's what I think is a remarkably suitable quote to describe the Jeleya platform. The Prime Minister brings out the knowledge school, the focus on knowledge and competence and new skills policies in his presentation. It disappoints me that the most important thing we can do in society — to make and train tomorrow’s children and young people — is not an end in itself, but only an instrument in a production and competition society. Think of the following future scenario: One day you wake up from the alarm that's ringing. The morning's blue. You're in school. And one more day, you meet an exhausted teacher who'll get you another test. You reach the point of getting the test back from last week before starting a new test. The teacher does not have the ability to discuss your results from the last time. Rather, the teacher has more committed colleagues with time to discuss professional and educational challenges. It's creeping in general. Why? The school has cut poorly on school quality year after year. The need for community economics and tough community reform did not increase funding for this school. Neither did the principal get more resources to follow up the students. Well-qualified teachers have fled, or they have stopped after they were separated and found too easy. The students who remained, there was no room for elsewhere. You look at the test and ask yourself, what's the point of the whole thing? But, wake up! Don't worry, we're not there now! This terrible school life is not a reality for today’s students — yet. But it can go this way, we're going to believe the government platform. Where the government will test more, measure more frequently and rank the schools according to learning outcomes and school quality – where the Centre Party will give teachers the freedom to adapt their daily school life with room for freedom of method and assessment for learning. We want a school where there is no cycle of standardised national tests determining when there is room for tests to consider what students have learned. Where the government is trying to increase freedom in schools by forcing the counties to introduce free school choices — there the Senterpartiet will rather secure the county municipalities of economic muscles to have a varied school offer, throughout the county, throughout the country. That's a reason we don't have free school choices. It's going to be a and b schools. Students are not a means of producing the welfare society. The students are whole and unique people who all deserve a place in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3934	Four years ago, Erna Solberg became historical. She became the first prime minister in Northern Europe to take a right-wing populist party into government. This year, Trine Skei Grande is going to be historic. She leads the only liberal and green party in Europe that can sit in government with a right-wing populist party. It moves borders in a number of areas that I'm concerned about, both in attitudes and in politics, for the next four years. The best thing to say about today's government is that it does not have a majority. The opposition parties show in today's debate that we can work together against the government's right-wing policy. I want to use this article on climate and environmental policy. We hear representatives from the government parties boast that they set the climate as one of their main challenges. But there's nothing to brag about. It's a matter of course. It was a sin of failure that the Right Party and the Advance Party did not do so four years ago. Now it remains to be seen what is happening in practice. In the environmental field, they are in some areas behind what has already been adopted by the Storting or where the bulk of the population is in practice. This applies, for example: continuation of the electric car benefits, 10 pst. for the protection of forests or the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse. All of this is the policy that the Workers' Party has previously put behind it. The big question is how much emission cuts the government will be able to implement. When the question was asked to the three party leaders after the declaration was presented, it was met with mockery by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. It is the right-wing parties that are now fully responsible for the achievement of the emissions targets in the climate agreement by 2020. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that you will do it. Although they promised an reinforcement, we have actually received a cancellation. The right-wing parties constitute the ultimate point of Norwegian environmental policy. In the previous period, the opposition had to override them on a case-by-case basis. Although the Left has now received the Minister for Climate Change, all three main environmental ministries are managed by the State Councils of the Progress Party. Therefore, the Workers' Party is ready to work with the other opposition parties for a more offensive environmental and climate policy. One area where it is necessary is the effort to capture and store CO 2 – a crucial technology for achieving the global climate objectives. It is incredible that we have experienced a deterioration in the Jeløya declaration if we compare it to the statement four years ago. There is no reason to believe that the government will deliver. We can't be surprised. At the presentation of the budget a few months ago, the Minister for Finance proposed 90 p.m. CO 2 capture and storage cut. This gets to be one of many areas where the opposition parties get to work together. The left has been given to the Minister for Climate and Environment. I wish him every success in his work, but we see a department that is still weakening. Four years ago, Erna Solberg moved the plane department out, to Ola Elvestuen's protests. Now she has also moved out of the ministry to work on wild game, and there are also protests from environmental and outdoor organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3963	New government, same content – to use a familiar English oral cavity a little rewritten. It seems to be an appropriate description of the government after the extension. This is also visible in the way in which the blue-blue government continues a passive line with regard to Norway’s relationship with the European Union. Right-wing Trond Helleland spoke before today about conservatism, but the government's attitude to the EU Energy Union once again shows that talking about conservatism is only a concept without content, because when it comes to the Constitution, there is not much conservatism out there and going to the Right. On the contrary, it seems that you can do what you can to avoid the Constitution's demands for treatment when it comes to the giving of sovereignty. In the past, the EEA has been referred to as a fax membership of the EU. With the proposed link to the EU Energy Union, the copy machine is now being used. In the state budget, it's set at 55 million. kr to new copier, model RME – or Energy Regulatory Authority, which is the full name of the machine. The RME shall be distinguished from the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate for the sole purpose of copying decisions of the EU Energy Agency and ESA. But do we really need an additional regulatory authority when we have NVE? The answer to that, of course, is no. The RME is exclusively a bureaucratic design designed to adapt to the EU Energy Union – a political and legal design to pre-regulate access and interconnection issues, under the EU Energy Union directives. Politically, this means that the management and supervision of network companies’ activities and flows of power cease nationally. It was said that Norwegian short-term control of its own power supply, without any thorough investigation or consideration of the Constitutional Law's requirements. Why, then, is RME an attempt to circumvent the Basic Law provisions on the waiver of sovereignty? Yes, because the ESA is only to copy decisions of the EU Energy Union and then to require the RME to copy the same decision. According to the government’s logic, the decision has then become Norwegian. It's kind of like putting Norwegian signs on a Peugeot and then calling it a heroic product. The centre party is a constitutional conservative party. We want to protect the intentions of the Basic Law, and we want to protect Norwegian interests. We are in favour of active cooperation, and we are in favour of the exchange of renewable energy, but we are not in favour of giving up sovereignty over power resources, as is actually the case in the arrangement of the blue-blue government, even if you try as hard as you can to minimize it. The centre party is very critical of the way the government will now put power over regulation of Norwegian energy in the hands of the EU. We will therefore take the initiative to bring up an independent, thorough investigation that will discuss the link with the EU Energy Union towards the Constitution, in the near future. We are also asking ourselves whether Norway as an energy producer and energy consumer has anything to do with this idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3985	Then we got it clear: the left was not green, the left is deep blue in its policy. Although last autumn, before the elections, the leader of the Left, said that a vote to the Left was a vote against the Progress Party, and even felt that they were subjected to a sword campaign that claimed that the Left actually came to support the Progress Party, we are here today debating a government statement by the Progress Party, the Left and the Right. The left became a deep blue party that now seems to be quite ok to rule on the premises of the Advance Party and to sit in government with Listhaug and Jensen. Policy is in strong trifle and double communication from the first day. The government statement states that it is so fine that tripartite cooperation is important that an organised and serious working life is important for the government. At the same time, the government says that they recognise and will support an unorganised working life. At the top of it all, we've got a government council that's previously said that she's getting sick of LO. Priority shall be given to the privatisation of public services. This government is heading towards a welfare system where the individual’s wallet and ability to pay for well-being services themselves will be prioritised. Community solutions, which are the carrierboard of our society, must be slowly but surely crumbled up – that is what the long-term goal of the government is. But then there's also a deep blue government we've got, so what else could you wait for? Moss Dagblad yesterday had an article on employment in Eastfold. It's not a pleasant reading. The SSB has an overview of the proportion of the population at work. It goes back to 1996. During that time, the proportion of persons employed in Eastfold has never been lower than in 2017. The proportion employed in Eastfold is slightly above 60 pst. This is a real challenge for Eastfold, but also for the country. The NHO Østfold states that ‘the low proportion of persons employed is the most demanding challenge for the labour market’. It is essential to get the proportion of people employed, says the NHO in Eastfold. They get my and the Labour Party's full support. Of course, LO in Østfold also expresses his concern in the matter, and they do so rightly. The government uses concepts such as «modernising and adapting the labour environment law», «flexible labour market», «strengthening the working line» — many terms of reference. So far, these words have meant attacking and weakening the work environment law, cutting daily pay, weakening social benefits for those who already have little, and huge tax cuts for those who have the most. This is the government's policy, but they have to meet a clear Workers' Party, which has other and better solutions. It's just to look at the suggestions that are being promoted, among other things. Here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e3998	Child protection meets the weakest and most vulnerable children in our society, and I've met many dedicated and dedicated professionals in child protection services. Among these are the private children's protection institution in Farsund and Lwigal, which again meets some of the weakest of the most vulnerable children. Cocoon specializes in multicultural child protection. They meet children who have been under very severe burdens in terms of violence, danger of violence and atrocities, trafficking in human beings, sexual mutilation, forced marriage, war and refugee dreams. In addition to working with a very important and very specialised area in the Norwegian Child Protection Service, they are an important private enterprise in their relatively small municipalities. They have 45 years' work and 55 employees. Earlier today, in the exchange of lines between the Workers' Party, Kari Henriksen, and the State Council, Hofstad Helleland, it became very clear that the Workers' Party has great scepticism for private suppliers. But a little earlier in the debate we could hear the party leader Støre almost praise private actors, and he was quite clear that the Workers' Party itself was totally dependent on private to implement the child hail lift. This is good for both the capacity and diversity of Norwegian kindergartens. I am pleased that our government is so clear on the importance of a good interaction between the public and private sectors, for this double communication to the Workers' Party could create great uncertainty for the individuals who are willing to bet, and who are willing to invest – if not we had a tough course with our government. For the Right and the Government, diversity is not a word without content, but a hot term in our policy. We have a great responsibility to create diversity in our welfare services. That is what guarantees freedom of choice, and it is what creates services that meet the individual's needs. This is why it is incredibly important that we have some actors, such as this child protection institution in South Africa, which has such a special competence, which can help children facing very special challenges and who also become such a great community of competences that it is possible to work with such demanding tasks. I believe that Cocoon shows us how important it is to ensure that we give private and ideal actors the opportunity to provide child protection services for the public. Cocoon is part of a larger group. These are the groups that SV is talking about so deeply. However, for this small child protection institution, becoming part of a larger group was important for quality assurance and for accessing good and superior structures and solutions. For the Right and the Government, it is most important that children and young people in the field of child protection receive high-quality assistance and care, not whether the employees are State or private employees. That is why the Jeløya declaration is quite clear on this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4014	In the Jeleya platform, the government is drawing up six major challenges that Norway is facing and that we need to solve. Education and research play an important role in solving these challenges, because if we are to take our responsibilities as countries in addressing climate challenges, research and education must be part of it. If we are to succeed in integrating, education and research must be at the heart of it. If we are to convert the Norwegian economy and create new jobs, education and research must be central. We have to train students who are equipped to meet tomorrow's business, who are in continuous transition. These are three examples that show that we have big problems ahead of us. Today's parliamentary majority has worked well together over the past 4.5 years, and a lot of good work has been done for this sector on which we can build. It's not like we have to start scratch, but we always have to strive to get better. One of the areas where we still have the potential to improve is the quality of teaching. We have to make it attractive to be a good teacher. Then we have to make sure that business and working life get candidates and students with the skills they need. We need to cooperate with industry and with the labour market in order to give them the right places of study, but also in order to make relevant practices during education, in order to improve the ability of students when they are finished. The Government shall also present a revised long-term research and higher education plan. Today’s plan has worked very well, it has been well received in the sector, it has been actively used both politically and by the sector, and it must be an objective that the revised plan is perceived in the same way – that it is concrete and relevant to the work being done. Finally, the Jeleia platform has raised a case that has already created a major debate in the sector. We're going to conduct an opportunity study to look at the forms of connectivity in the UH sector, because we want to have the most independent institutions possible, and the business model is used as an example. Now we're not going to conclude on anything until we've completed that opportunity study, but I'm really looking forward to that debate both here in Stortinget and with the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4026	First, I would like to congratulate the Left, Right and Advance Party on the cooperation and platform. Three right-wing parties have come together, and that bears the mark of politics. There will be no less blue-blue policies, no, there will be more privatisation, a more unsafe working life, increased disparities, and not least the major challenges we face are not adequately addressed. The platform is characterised by the fact that three right-wing parties have agreed on a social development towards continued high tax cuts, more competition and privatisation in several welfare areas and impaired rights for workers. The Labour Party considers this to be the wrong direction, which will give a more unfair Norway. The comfort is that these three parties do not have a majority. There is still the possibility for this hall to have a majority for a different course. A little bit of that we'll see tonight when we're going to vote. The platform also does not contain any new, major industrial policy initiative. The Prime Minister spoke warmly yesterday about the bet in North Norway, but it is the private ones who stand for it. There's little targeted effort on the marine industry from the government, I notice, and it's a little strange. The previous criticism of the Labour Party's compromise in Lofoten, Vesterålen and Senja from the Right and the Progress Party comes in a very strange perspective when we see that the government is once again being postponed for four years. There is also no obligation in the platform to strengthen the local economy, so that municipal politicians can give priority to kindergarten, school and care for the elderly, as we would like from this room. On the contrary. Many municipalities have to cut the service offered to the inhabitants, it has to be tightened up, as it is now, when it is tightened up in the property tax. Substantial privatisation and competition for welfare services are envisaged and the platform provides for the continuation of welfare profits and suckers into the public sector. I am disappointed that the government is not talking more about home-based care either, because most of us want care at home for as long as possible. No, the government's approach is more privatisation and competitive outsourcing. Finally, the government's lack of broadband bet. I noticed that the Prime Minister said yesterday that they should contribute grants where there is no market. But that's not the reality. Today it is such that outside built-in strokes have only 40 pst. access to high-speed broadband versus 97 pst. within. The right-hand party government has cut the pot for the entire four-year period we've been in, and they've started with $69 million. kr in its proposal. The Labour Party has proposed 500 million. kr, or 12 br. NOK in the NTP period we're going into. It doesn't keep up with such a bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4043	We are facing a continuing trend towards a more centralised justice sector. That the left has entered the government does not seem to help the matter very much. Until recently, Left has e.g. have been opposed to centralisation in criminal matters, but given up in the negotiations. Another example of their commitment is the desire to terminate the prison agreement in the Netherlands, on which the Left has been opposed all the way and has brought with it the opposition. In the budget debate before Christmas, the Left, during the same debate, performed both to deliver and to draw up its own proposal to conclude the prison agreement with the Netherlands, despite the fact that they could have obtained a majority in the Chamber. Now it is possible that the agreement will be terminated by 2020, which will be presented as a major victory for the Left in the government negotiations. But that's actually been the plan of the government all along. Furthermore, I am very excited about what kind of impression the new Minister of Justice is going to leave behind. My prediction is that the Progress Party is still going to seem the most like an opposition party in government. The new Council of State, Sylvi Listhaug, is going to go high on the path of controversial play to create beings around itself, completely without sacrificing a thought of completely fundamental values in the Norwegian state of law, which she is set to represent at the top level, as we have seen in the last week. As a justice politician, I can deal with the fact that we have a minister of justice who chooses to use divisive rhetoric, who pursues politics in a way that encourages cynicism and witchcraft in society. Then there is an additional responsibility on us others to act with cause and propriety to preserve the basic and unique values on which the state of law in Norway is based: human dignity, legal certainty and an independent criminal system, which is not governed by emotion and fear, are some of them. What I'm struggling to accept more is that Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the Left Government Party stay on their sideline and let all this happen without taking responsibility for themselves. They're letting the Advance Party host completely without putting down their feet or commenting on things that come up. When, in the future, the Minister of Justice is going to make stunts or cut cheap rhetorical points at the expense of propriety and integrity, we can hardly expect the Prime Minister to take hold of them. Trine Skei Grande may say that it may not be something she would say, and the Prime Minister may be stretching to say that now we need to focus on the matter, you -- if we can't get a Prime Minister turning around, starting to put his foot down and take responsibility for what her own government is doing while they represent the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4058	Today, the Christian People's Party has made proposals to ask the government to take action to achieve the policy objectives of reducing alcohol consumption and not to facilitate changes that increase access and consumption. In order to obtain the widest possible support for the proposal and to avoid misunderstandings, we adjust the proposal to the following: ‘The government is asking the government to propose measures to achieve the policy objectives of reducing alcohol consumption.’ The point here is that we need a policy that will reduce consumption, not increase consumption. When the Christian People's Party challenges the government in the field of alcohol policy, it is among other things. because we see in the government statement that the government parties are going in the wrong direction. And I want to ask the representatives of the government who are present here right now: why do they add up to increased availability of alcohol, when we know that increased availability means increased consumption and thus increased damage to individuals, to their kids and to their families? The purpose paragraph of the Alcohol Act states that the purpose of the law is to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Individually, each proposal — in slightly longer opening hours, a little more liberal policy — may seem plausible. There are generally suggestions that only ease a little, and a little bit more, so that availability only increases ‘a little’. The problem is that the sum of all these proposals and small changes actually increases the consumption and availability. The problem is that this is reflected in a pattern of a wide range of measures that together increase the availability of alcohol. The point is that we're going in the right direction, not in the wrong direction, and the government's solutions in the statement are going in the wrong direction. That is why we come with this proposal. The Christian People's Party will have a policy that leads to less use and less harm. We have a common goal of limiting and reducing alcohol consumption in Norway. In order to achieve these policy objectives and reduce alcohol consumption, we cannot facilitate changes that increase access to alcohol. Then we won't achieve the goals we've set ourselves. Then, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will give an explanation of vote. We are going to vote in favour of proposal No. One, two, three, and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4076	The representative of Bollestad has presented the amendments to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4081	The Blue-Green Government shall follow up its National Transport Plan 2018-2029. It has been re-established in the Jeløya platform, and several parties have actually boasted of that very point in the platform. And there is more in the platform that gives us hope of reaching the climate agreement – less land use for transport and faster implementation of good projects. Societal benefit is a clear prerequisite, it is stated in the platform. Then we have to have more passengers on the track and on the bus. The solutions are found in faster, more frequent and cheaper collective solutions. Urban growth agreements – such as in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger – allow for results, but then these cities must have spatial planning that can be coordinated with infrastructure development. In addition, the government will now continue to contribute to an effective solution for public transport, corridors and bicycles in urban areas, and preferably in more cities and urban areas than today. The platform provides access to and has a goal about it. Local policy environments are clear, citizens are clear, carriers are clear, and urban growth agreements and reward schemes must be established for several cities. For all growth in urban passenger traffic, public transport, bicycles and corridors are to be taken. It's tough targets, and it's strict demands, it's carrot, and it's whippy, but it's forward-looking policy, and the blue-green government has to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4096	A rather strange change of words about biotechnology took place in Stortinget earlier today, between the representatives of Hareide and Gahr Støre. Hareide asked Gahr Støre not to let biotechnology control ethics and morality, while Gahr Støre used the opportunity to respond that biotechnology was hardly mentioned in the government platform. I can make both of them safe. We don't intend to let biotechnology control either ethics or morality, and the area is duly described in the government platform. Biotechnology gives us many opportunities, such as better and more specific diagnostics and treatment of patients and better manufacturing of medicines. The tools to cure very many diseases or conditions are available or under development and use is currently being slowed down mainly by resource access or ethical issues. Opinions are divided as to how far we should go in ‘fixing’ people, and the issues are demanding. For spring, Stortinget will evaluate the Biotechnology Act. It is proposed to facilitate the benefit of medical technological development in the field of genetic research. In recent years, a new method, the CRISPR method, has been developed, which is expected to enable targeted changes in human genes to be made in the long term. Where the disease is caused by known genetic mutations, gene therapy can fix the gene that causes disease. It is proposed that gene therapy should only be allowed to treat or prevent serious disease and that genetic changes inherited from future generations should continue to be prohibited. In the government platform, it is said, inter alia, that: to facilitate the provision of benefits to patients in the field of medical and technological development and the availability of better analytical tools, within a reasonable resource use, while respecting individual rights, privacy and health. We also need to provide patients with more precise and targeted diagnostics and treatment by facilitating the development of personalised medicine. These are some of the opportunities that biotechnology gives us, and we have to manage the new knowledge and the new opportunities wisely. But it is no good to close your eyes and ears and pretend that there are no possibilities. Our blindly saying no to development in this country will not prevent the tools from being used in other countries, and the Norwegian population will take advantage of it there. We must therefore take a clear position on what we want to allow and not, based on good, fact-based discussions, which also address ethical issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4111	The government and the Right under the leadership of Erna Solberg appear more and more as a political marketing project. The business side behind this can be divided into four points. Firstly, the participating parties must be for everything that is good and good in the world – democracy, public education, community, values, trust, volunteering, justice and security. In addition, if we are able to be green, smart and innovative, the environment is afraid and future certainty. Secondly, the participating parties must be mostly against everything that is bad and bad in the world, it is terrorists, criminals, tyrants or pedophiles. Where appropriate for political rhetoric, good values such as public education, respect, community and forgiveness must give way. Critical questions were answered with the mandatory: I would not put it this way. Words are powerful weapons. They should not be abused by the foremost trustees in our society. At this point, Prime Minister Solberg exercises poor leadership. Thirdly, the participating parties give names to their reforms which make Orwell’s preferences on new political speech in the 1984 book appear rather amateur. The use of the ‘near-police reform’ approach to the strongest recent centralisation of the police is an example of this. Fourth, the participating parties meet critical and critical questions using what I would call the mood argument. Those who ask critical questions to the government for their political solutions or point to unresolved tasks in society shall vote plastic as negative, pessimistic and suspense, thus ending the debate. Behind this marketing project, the right-wing policy is pursued every day behind the battle orders and inwards in the management systems. Every day, big and small decisions are taken that step by step weaken the rule of the people. Blue policies weaken the community and the Community institutions, and the differences between peoples are increasing. This happens even if it is spoken warmly from this pulpit that the paint is the opposite. Over time, this will also undermine trust in society. It is thus a highlight of this debate that Prime Minister Solberg's government project appears to be more and more cracking and faltering.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4128	Despite the gloomy predictions of some success, local reform is a success. The will and ability to change in the municipalities is very much respected, and I hope that even more municipalities will follow to get bigger and better. I would like to encourage the municipalities of my home state, Vest-Agder, to follow in the footsteps of the municipality of Audnedal, which is the only municipality in the county, together with Lvgal, which has made a decision on voluntary aggregation. Local government reform continues, and we local politicians must take responsibility for that, but it is also important that governments and large-scales ensure that aggregation pays off. I will follow up on the fact that municipalities like Audnedal come well out of the municipal conversion. No municipalities should lose weight on the conversion. It has to pay off financially. The municipal reform proves that local and municipal politicians are taking responsibility for the development of Norway in the right direction, but unfortunately we see that the Workers' Party takes a populist position and tries to distance itself in a matter where we agreed a little while ago. The municipal reform is now taking shape, and with more than 90 voluntary mergers, the municipal map will look different in 2020. It is thanks to the municipalities themselves, where rapporteurs and citizens have taken the challenges of the municipal structure seriously. There might be a few people who know that it's approx. 70 Workers' Party-led municipalities which have taken a positive decision on a merger. This shows that also on the grassroots part of the Workers' Party it is a desire for better and larger municipalities. But one can quickly get the impression of something else if one listens to the party leadership in the Workers' Party. I'd like to say one thing to the Workers' Party, and that's: it's not too late to turn around. The working party may show itself to be the responsible party it once was and may admit that the reform has been and is necessary. I am not saying this because Gahr Støre is going to lose credibility, but because all the rapporteurs out there are going to get the support they need in the work that remains to create more robust municipalities. Many of them have changed since the 1960s, for example. population patterns, communication opportunities, industrial structure and welfare needs. However, local reform must be implemented to meet changing conditions in order to create strong municipalities, and we need to meet the new municipalities of the present and the future. The new government platform determines that the municipal reform should continue, and this through positive instruments and good and local processes. Local pooling will pay off financially, and rapporteurs will be dependent on central support if we are to achieve goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4143	This statement indicates that the government does not raise its ambitions for the Defence to increase the defence budget to 2 pst. GDP. On the contrary, the declaration has a weaker wording than both the Right and the Advance Party have adopted in their batch programmes. The Government statement states quite modestly that only «in the direction of» the 2 percentage points should be taken. The weak wording has aroused awareness and disappointment in defence circles. In the past, the Minister of Defence himself had to admit to questions from the Central Party that the government’s long-term plan would not meet Norway’s obligations to use 2 pst. of GDP in defence by 2024. Last week there was a headline in the media that a new defense report recommends that all helicopters be assembled to the Coast Guard and the Marinen in Bergen. The Coast Guard is then recommended to hire civilian helicopter capacity, which could lead to the 337-square at Bardufoss becoming superfluous. The Center Party has warned against this. This is anything but betting on the north areas as a center of gravity for the defense. Helicopters are a prerequisite for the Coast Guard to be able to discharge its tasks in the northern regions. This will have a significant impact on the safety of the fishing fleet and the control tasks of the Coast Guard. Once again, the government is depriving the defense of the north. Another important issue for the Center Party is the preservation of Andøya Air Station. We sent questions last week about where it is from the concept selection investigation, which should have been submitted several months ago. It seems that the KVU is being sold in as a small saying to the left. We don't know what it's going to conclude with, but all we've learned so far is that the government is going very far in covering possible costs at Evenes. Now the Central Party's proposal for a representative on the impact assessment of the closure of Andeya Air Station is under consideration in the Committee. An increasing number of people are questioning the government's alleged savings by shutting down Andeya Air Station, and the same number are worried about Norway's defence capabilities and the capacity to accept allied reinforcements. The center party believes that the decommissioning of Andøya Air Station is a historical mistake, and we'll do everything we can to stop it. I can assure you that this debate is not over. The centre party is going to continue to raise defence cases in the Stortinget, and this is especially about the commitment to defence in the North. If we believe that the North is important in terms of preparedness and defence policy, we must bet and not put down, as this government has done in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4157	In order to ensure a sustainable welfare society, we need to address the major challenges facing Norway in the future. The solution is not more money for everything, but to use community resources wisely and contribute to increased value creation. Then we will provide a welfare society that can also take care of future generations in a good way. This means that we need to continue our work on transforming the Norwegian economy and supporting an inclusive and safe society with small differences. An important foundation in this way is an inclusive working life. We can not only create more jobs, but we also have to organize so that more people are working. Norwegian working life must have room for immigrants, young people, those with holes in the CV and those with disabilities. Being at work is important to being independent and creating your own future. And the government's vision is just a society with opportunities for everyone. In the future, we will need the skills and the labour force of each of us. The Government will continue its efforts to facilitate increased participation in the labour market and to warn both of new measures and of the strengthening of existing measures in the Government Declaration. To take some examples: We have increased efforts towards long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. Five per cent of new employees in the State shall be disabled persons or holes in the CV. The provision of permanent work must be strengthened. There shall be greater access to facilities to facilitate participation in work and education. Effective schemes such as wage subsidies and work training in ordinary activities shall be continued and strengthened. There should be good cooperation between social entrepreneurs, volunteers and other actors that can help more people get into work and activity. The objective must be a safe and flexible labour market with low unemployment and high employment. The authorities and social partners need to play a role, and we need to have good cooperation between employers, hubs, the manning industry, recruitment agencies and other actors to get more involved. It provides better quality of life for individuals, and it is also socio-economically profitable. I hope we can have a good and constructive debate in the future on how to include even more people in the labour market. It deserves all those who are out of work today, and it also deserves the generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4191	We've got an expanded blue government, with three parties ideologically based on economic liberalism, where the populace must, as far as possible, correct market forces. The EEA Agreement, which is based on the four freedoms of market forces – the free movement of workers, capital, goods and services – is therefore a basis for these blue parties. Norwegian elected representatives get less power, but the candidates of the parties still promise a lot in the election campaigns. Together with this ideological base, the government statement is adorned with a number of nice formulations, without the blue government having a concrete story of what you want with Norway. The government does not say that it is helping to centralize housing and jobs – it is just like that. The government does not say that renewable natural resources, such as: hydropower and timber shall be exported as raw material – it shall only be like this. When the EU is given authority over Norwegian legislation, and blind business neutrality gives too little profitability to create long value chains for Norwegian spruce, it is the opposite of green shifts. People in primary industries have understood this a long time ago and are therefore getting greater and greater distrust of abstract words as ‘green shifting’. The government gives the impression that the public administration needed to lead people, i.e. professionals doing the job, needs to be reduced. The result is only opposite in the police, in the municipalities and in Nav – centralisation of public enterprises provides bureaucracy. People see it. When the government continues to rate New Public Management, with barely read target and result management and reporting, it becomes expensive for the public. Instead, trust-based management is needed, where the result of the job is the point, and where people in the first line – teachers, nurses and police, yes, all professionals – are given more responsibility and authority because management has created a common understanding of the reality of the mission of everyone in the flock. ‘Think sail! Take responsibility!’ is central to the Centre Party’s management experience. The government says they want to maintain permanent employment as a general rule in the Working Environment Act. This gives the impression that the protection of permanent employment by the Labour Environment Act is permanent, as opposed to temporary and employment via the employment agency. We who are in the Labour and Social Committee know that that is the opposite that happens. What is at the heart of working life is that regular employment provides security — security of income and, consequently, the basis for a safe family life. Fixed income provides the basis for family formation and for owner-occupied housing. This is the value conservative position. It now requires an innovative, radical policy in relation to the government's line, and the Central Party is to contribute. What is central is that the whole of the Central Party's policy, which has historically stood in stark contrast to economic liberalism, has been based on the fact that elected representatives must and can correct the market forces by majority decisions in the Grand Duchy. It is therefore a major task in this process of enlargement to contribute to such an economic policy. The Christian People's Party Nils Lavik from the Eksingedalen also supported this economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4208	I never stop to wonder that colleagues and individual representatives waste time not talking about their own policies, but rather characterizing people and the content of government policies without giving solutions seen from themselves. I also hear that both Labour Party and Center Party representatives have made claims that national ownership should be weakened, so it may well be timely to remember that it was sold more on both the Labour Party and the Center Party guards. What I was going to talk about is foreign and security policy and much of what too many people experience as abstract, not least the individual issues in the field. At the same time, the idea of a sound and good foreign and security policy is closely linked to the perception that the government is ruling the country in a safe and good way. That is why I am also pleased with the ambitions of the government regarding the platform that has been created – to use one of many expressions: the Jeløen platform. In what's drawn from pictures from foreign and security policy, it's also the way that the world around us has become more unpredictable, and the changes that happen outside affect us here at home. Foreign policy has become national, regional and local policies. In many ways, on very many indicators, the world has also become a better place. Nevertheless, there are still challenges to which the government will address and identify solutions. The crises that occurred in 2014 and beyond in 2015 have also heightened our attention to protecting and strengthening what is of central institutions, such as the UN, NATO and also to revitalising European cooperation. We're doing a great job of strengthening the defense and also starting to see the results of this. I noticed that there was an area and a theme that the head of the Workers' Party was not in his speech today. It is important for the Right and the Government that we are able to put an international agenda in areas that are important to our country and that we are working for peace, democracy and development. It is also heard that it is important for Norway that we manage to work and adapt in such a way that we also have a place in the Security Council between 2021 and 2022. We have not joined the EU, but we have never signed up out of Europe, and Europe is our most important economic, political and value-added community. Norway and the EU countries have many common challenges, and Norway must therefore also be part of Europe’s solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4221	A fair Norway, where everyone has the same opportunities, it's a Norway we in the Workers' Party want, and about which the government is talking so nicely, while we're fighting to build on. It's political priorities that bit by bit build the society we want. The Labour Party knows and acknowledges that a good working life for men and women in the street is essential to the security of everyday life – a good working life, regardless of whether you are a man or a woman, with or without a diploma, young or older. In that case, the government as the executive authority must take responsibility for the fact that the primary characteristic of Norwegian employment remains the organised working life, because it creates more security and predictability. Indeed, it does not only have to ‘increase the competence of public purchasers in the country and municipality for serious work’, as stated in the Jeløia Platform. Requirements must be laid down. In the municipality of Rogaland, a responsibility has been assumed for the strict requirements for trade union workers and for the number of apprentices – a continuation of the Telemark model. The requirements came with a new majority in the county and created a policy now called the Rogaland model. The hope is that in the long run, the Rogaland model may provide inspiration for a new Norwegian model with higher public procurement requirements. The Labour Party calls for government responsibility and action for an organised working life, a fight for job security and competent workers, action for people who now experience not having their professional competence in their professional life, action to make it attractive for young people to choose a professional profession and to take professional letters. We need vocational training to be sought after. We young people often seek stability in professional choices, and then we need the working life as a skilled worker to be a good working life. With a greater force for a serious and organised working life than the government is now proposing, a so-called sustainable welfare society, which the government is so concerned with in its declaration, is allowed to do. With a serious and organised working life, a fair society is built with opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4234	It was interesting to follow the parliamentary leaders, who started the debate today. One of the more eye-catching statements, at least with the Busherud eyes, left-wing Terje Breivik stood as he said: It is easy for the Left to start the blue-green collaboration with glow and enthusiasm. For less than six months ago, we fought for election, and both the Labour Party and the LO in Buskerud warned the voters that a voice to the Left was a voice to the Progress Party in the government. 30. August left's top candidate in Buskerud went out against what she called a miserable sword campaign from the Workers' Party and the LO. “The blackmail campaign” she reacted to was that the Left would support a government with the Progress Party – that was totally out of the question. But it turned out pretty quickly that the left would actually want more than that, and it wouldn't even have us imagining before the election. Now the first candidate of the Left in Buskerud is State Secretary in a government with the Advance Party, and they start working with glow and enthusiasm. It was not so much glow and enthusiasm to track on the Blue Cross in the Drammen when it was clear earlier this month that the Borgestad clinic lost its offer from Health South-East for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. This means that the Brerenna Clinic in the Drama – or Blue Cross, as it goes down on the mouth of the people – is laid down. Thus, a unique offer to people with alcohol and drug dependence who have been built up over 40 years disappears. 15 daily treatment sites are lost, as are outpatients and follow-up services. Ten detox sites are gone, the offer of gambling addicts is gone, 54 employees lose their jobs. That's the result of right-wing policy, the one that the Left now applauds. When the negative results turn out, one should at least have a political spine enough to acknowledge political responsibility, but no. In turn, local representatives of the Right and Advance Party stand forward with my concerns and later as if they are completely irresponsible of putting the Blue Cross in the Drama down. As the Stortinget discussed in the previous period the proposals of the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registrationen to the Act on Public Acquisitions, promoted the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party the following proposals: «The Ministry shall allow contracting entities to reserve contracts for health and social services for NPISHs under specified conditions.» We were voted down by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. So it's not true, as Trond Helleland said here before today, that the Workers' Party is afraid of private. We are too ideal and volunteers, among others. in the Ru area. In today's debate, representatives of the right have repeated and repeated the same bottles: modernising, simplifying, improving, changing to preserve well-being. The flakes are not in contact with reality. Unfortunately, the drug addicts at the Blue Cross in the Drama have had painful experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4254	The President will point out that the 'flakes' have been mentioned before as an inappropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4259	I would like to begin by congratulating the new government and the newly appointed state councils. As an elderly person in the Workers' Party, I am naturally particularly concerned with health and elderly policy. We welcome some of the points in the platform, and we can even say welcome after. In the municipality of Ski, where I was rapporteur for the election, we have had senior contacts for more than ten years offering home visits, and we support the government's goal of providing more municipalities with home visits to the elderly. We are also pleased that the government parties through the platform announce support for the love guarantee on which the Workers' Party went to elections. But there are also some points that both amaze me and concern me. Some things are simply not at stake. On the one hand, the government will contribute to the greater contribution of municipalities to the free choice of users in both home and home care. So the government is going to start with a two-thirds of old age care. It's out of the question what people want. On the other hand, the government will extend the state funding of care for the elderly. Privatisation and government-making – the municipalities, which are our leading providers of welfare services, are almost disqualified by this government. Although we in the Labour Party would prefer to occupy the government offices ourselves, we are delighted that we have hands on the wheel in both health and elderly policy. In the Workers' Party, it is important that municipalities are central suppliers of the services for which they are responsible. It is important that the Stortinget and the municipal sector play a role. Therefore, we are pleased with two important wins in the Health Committee yesterday, in line with the needs of the municipalities and KS have addressed. One is that we cancel the government's cut for upgrading hospitals, and the other is that we increase the grant for day-time activities for people with dementia from 30 to 50 pst. It's tomorrow's concern we're going to build. That's why we need to focus on the entire caretaker, not just the top step. That is also the background to the proposal we have promoted together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV today. We have to think about something new when we're going to make it possible to stay at home as much as possible. Housing facilities at the lower levels of care facilities need to be expanded, e.g. in the form of older and adapted housing with access to common land and municipal services, without necessarily being a matter of good luck. The construction may take place in conjunction with major construction projects. Targeted use of State grant schemes can contribute to the faster development of such dwellings. We are pleased that we get a majority in that matter as well, and wish the minority government good luck on the trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4280	This government has put an elderly and public health minister in place. What is not in the title, and which may surprise, is that she is also responsible for children, young people and people of all ages who depend on municipal services. The government’s platform points to a good and dignified care tailored to individual needs. Dementia plan 2020 is the government’s main plan in the care of dementia. The strange thing is that this dementia plan actually applies to people with disabilities of all ages, regardless of dementia or not. In 2009, the Health Authority created a child-removal and child-removal counsellor. But when municipalities build children's homes, it happens after the leadership of the Demen plan 2020, funded by the Husbank's investment grant to nursing homes and nursing homes, not after the leadership for the design of children's homes and children's relief homes. The leadership of Demenplan 2020 is based on the weakened orientation of dements. The leadership of children's housing is based on ensuring a homely and safe growth in a child-friendly environment. Many of the disabled people’s organisations are disappointed that care policies are being pursued that are too much influenced by care for the elderly. There are considerable differences in the needs of children, young people, adults and the elderly, although people of all ages may need assistance. It is hardly just SV who knows that playing is more important for children than for the elderly. The Norwegian Association of Developmentally Impaired Persons claims that it is discriminatory and unworthy always to be placed with older and demented people, and it is easy to understand such considerations. It is no better when the elderly focus is reinforced by an older minister who is even to be responsible for child care services. In a few days the Stortinget will decide on a proposal from the Christian People's Party and SV to prevent children from staying in a nursing home. Hopefully, the proposal will have a majority. However, it is a poor sign that children and young people in need of assistance should be placed under the leadership of the elderly. SV believes that the only right thing to do is to base the care services of children on the Convention and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Can we be sure that, despite the title, the Minister for the Elderly will be a minister who cares for everyone, regardless of age?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4295	When Health South-East flags out ICT operations and provides more than one hundred IT workers from Asia and Eastern Europe with access to sensitive patient information without any risk or vulnerability analysis, and when State Council Solvik-Olsen is in favour of private solutions and defines it as ok to allow the Chinese to finance and build train offers between Oslo and Stockholm, there are two examples of a limitless naivety. There is no doubt that the Chinese are ready to build infrastructure both in Scandinavia, in Africa and in Pakistan, but so very privately, the communist state capital cannot be said to be. The main security policy discussion in Sweden is currently not about whether the Swedish are going to become a member of NATO, it is about whether it is okay to allow the Chinese to build a port in Uddevalla. In Norway, issues of critical infrastructure do not appear on the security policy agenda, nor in the government statement, which we are debating here today, but it should. In its threat assessment for 2018, the PST manager recently pointed out that knowledge acquisition about critical infrastructure is one of the main threats to Norway in terms of intelligence. We cannot in our boundless naivety let alone carry out safety and vulnerability analyses of flagging out and outsource more and more of the construction and operation of infrastructure that is important for the country, it be physical infrastructure, such as road construction and railway, or digital infrastructure that is crucial for the operation of society. More and more of society's drive will be digital in the future. Then we also need plans and measures to protect ourselves from transparency and intervention. Cybersecurity must be placed in the front seat. With regard to the physical infrastructure, it is a cross-section of thought that we make the tenders so large that no Norwegian contractors have the opportunity to submit offers. Tenders are then won by large Spanish, Italian or Portuguese companies that we rely on. But how vulnerable do we not become? It can't be that we in our eagerness to flag out, outsource and sell put the country open and make it more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4308	Norway will need more skilled skilled workers in the future. In 2014, the SSB projections showed that Norway may lack more than 90,000 skilled workers under the age of 20. During the reign of the Right and Erna Solberg, there have been 3 000 fewer students in vocational education and training programmes. It is a development that should concern us all, because the lack of skilled skilled workers will affect the competitiveness of industry. At the latest today, the Minister of Knowledge received a report on future skills needs, showing that 20 pst. companies say they have significant recruitment problems. Only on Construction and construction and engineering and industrial production have reached 2 500 fewer students since the autumn of 2013. In the Government Declaration, the three right-wing parties have not found room for new measures which could give the professions and the recruitment a completely necessary boost. The majority of the professional measures in the declaration were presented by the government of Stoltenberg II. If we are to reverse developments and make sure that we train the skilled workers in the future and in the country, there is a need for a strong and comprehensive commitment to the professions, from primary school to working life policy. It does not appear in the government statement to increase the status of professionals when the government does not do enough to ensure a good and serious working life, where skilled workers can expect permanent, full jobs and orderly working conditions. It does not hold to be hoped that more people will choose a professional course, when primary school only prepares young people for special study. There are 5,000 young people waiting in line today to complete their education because there are not enough apprenticeships. The Workers' Party wants the State to ensure that all young people have a place of learning through committed cooperation with the labour market on apprenticeships and dimensionalisation. We will grant a professional billion during the period to introduce practical grants, strengthen the apprenticeship grant, update equipment and improve the quality of training. If we are to demand greater commitments from the labour market and the state, the government must also make clear and ambitious promises about the state's efforts and investments. Unfortunately, there are no signs in the declaration. The working party will have a stepping-up plan for equipment in vocational training, and we proposed to allocate 100 million. kr in the 2018 state budget. We hope the government parties vote for the next time. Automation and digitisation will fundamentally change the labour market and make new demands for both employers and employees. Without extraordinary efforts to build the necessary skills across the whole population, the risk of changes shifting entire occupational groups out of work is high and both unemployment and pay differentials are increasing. The scarce mention of competence reform shows once again that this is a government in deficit. The Labour Party will have a reform of competences for more people at work, for more people who remain in work and for better results in the labour market. We want to ensure that workers earn the right to continuing education and training, and we will contribute to the financing of this. For the Workers' Party, lifelong learning is a central part of the Norwegian model, so that it is not only the workers who bear the responsibility but also the employers and the state together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4328	There are many positive developments in Norway, and people are proud to live in one of the best countries in the world. I am therefore asking myself a little question that the Labour Party in today's debate clearly chose to press the 'election-repeat' button. To clarify political dividing lines is good. But drawing fictitious scares doesn't help to rust Norway for the future. There is, after all, broad agreement on the superior, important objectives of our country. Among other things, we all want to ensure welfare development and good health services. If you look at Norway's history, you'll see quite clearly that business development and value creation are linked. In further development, we are totally dependent on municipalities and hospitals working together with industry to renew care for the elderly and to create health and care services for the future. Business is part of the solution. The working party itself referred to private and received help to implement the important child care lift. Now they turn their backs on private business in a rhetorical game to make the expanded government appear in a bad light. The Labour Party suggests that interaction between the public and private sectors is scary. Where do they see the boundaries going, between services and tasks, between private and private ideals? Or should all private participation be considered undesirable? Health care could make a double profit. Nutrition contributes to well-being and health and creates values and new jobs. In order to meet expectations, we need to accept that there are individuals – private – who are a resource in the cooperation between the public and the private. With this declaration, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left take responsibility and ensure a good basis for further development through a joint project. It would be nice if we could also have a constructive approach from the opposition, just to ensure a viable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4343	The new government platform further pursues the ambition to strengthen Norway as a port and links it to technology development, reducing climate change emissions and investing in new and forward-looking jobs. That's good! The maritime clusters have already expressed their enthusiasm for the government's platform to develop a policy that will help establish new green jobs. Green industrial clusters shall be established, a stable and long-term petroleum policy shall be continued. Norway shall be among the leading countries in Europe when it concerns innovation and the use of new technologies in all industries. Interactions between business, academia, the innovation and research environment shall be strengthened. Here is the potential for growth. The Catapult scheme shall continue, one shall focus on floating sea winds and contribute to innovation through enhanced nutrition research across marine industries. The Government will further develop green shipping programmes to include zero-emission and hybrid concepts for different categories of vessels and will continue to set requirements for release-free or renewable solutions in public ferry services, where appropriate. The fact that Norway has already made a difference in the field of technology, there are many examples – now the last time NCE Maritime CleanTech was allocated 110 million. kr in EU funds to obtain an electric fast boat in Rogaland. This is a clear proof that the policy is working. It is a test that the tools for which it is prepared are well matched. And business delivers. It's not that bad – as is claimed by the pulpit – but because of the government's policy, jobs are created, etc. in this industry. Nevertheless, we are blamed by the opposition for being little ambitious, district enemy, and little concrete. The Jeleia platform suggests that we should do more of the good work we have started, do more of what we see working – a work that is good for the environment, for climate, for jobs, for technology development, for competence building and for District Norway. The government has been looking for a good governance document for the next few years, and we are pleased to take on the work together with a driving good and innovative business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4360	The accusations that right-wing policies contribute to the brutalisation of working life are a common review tone from the left and part of the labour market. As a third-generation mason's son, with a degree in fish farming, I have worked through large parts of my upbringing as an unskilled mason in school and study holidays, including a four-year apprenticeship at a fish farm in Austevoll outside Bergen. Believe me, when I say this, I had never joined a party that actively went in to brutalise Norwegian employment. In fact, in Norway, one of the most modern and resilient labour markets in the world has been created, through long-standing and good cooperation between the social partners, where nine out of ten Nordics thrive on work. But this doesn't mean that the labour market is perfect. Life at work is, and has been, an increasing and serious problem over many years. Crime has also become more widespread, more serious and more international. This is why the government, in cooperation with the social partners, developed a strategy against labour-related crime during the previous ageing period. The government also established several work-life crime centres, where all relevant departments work together to identify work-life crime with multidisciplinary expertise and frequent joint controls. The new government will continue this work, among others. by reviewing the criminal framework and the law, increasing the competence of public purchasers in the country and municipality and contributing to prevention and attitude change in the Norwegian population. The right hopes for cross-political cooperation to combat labour-life crime during the current ageing period. At the same time, the Norwegian labour market is constantly changing. Technological changes, increased global competition and industrial transformation will increasingly put pressure on the Norwegian labour market model. It requires continuing to modernise and adapt the work environment law to the modern working life that you actually have. But let there be no doubt: right-wing people want a working life where permanent employment is the main rule, and where tripartite cooperation is crucial in order to succeed in the transformation of business and ensure a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4371	The new government writes in its platform that they will pursue a gambling policy that emphasises the need for change as a result of technological developments. It's all right, because it's important that we have a game policy that belongs to the time we live in. But a gambling policy for the future can still be based on the principles agreed by most people today, an exclusive right model in which the profits of turnover benefit culture, volunteering and sport. Even the blue-blue government's own strategy selection decided as its top recommendation that we should focus on the exclusive model rather than open up more licences. Of the three batches that have come together now, two are for a licensing arrangement over the exclusive model, which we have today. And with the statements of the State Council of Skei Grande in the VG yesterday, it can be seen that she has not been moved to consider the consequences of such liberalisation. In 2017 it is distributed over 4 billion. kr from the surplus for a number of good purposes, not only for new football courses or outdoor activities, but also for example. for new lighting in Nidarosdomen. In addition, actors operating within the Norwegian gaming monopoly have used a good number of tools to prevent gambling addiction, such as: a maximum loss limit. The commercial gambling companies are not allowed to offer or market their games here in Norway. Nevertheless, these companies use aggressive, segmented marketing through a number of channels aimed at different groups. I myself have been called up by beting companies with provocative offers, without ever having used a penny on these companies. To sum up, liberalisation of gambling policy in clear terms means increasing the number of licences and increasing the turnover limits. It threatens the exclusive model. This is what the Workers' Party clearly says no to. Last week the representative of Trettebergstuen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, promoted a Document 8 with a total of eight points which will limit the channelling of money to the foreign gambling and betting companies operating illegally in Norway. Among other things, we propose to block the IP addresses and mobile apps used by the companies. Unfortunately for my volunteering, I note that the Minister of Culture is not a follower of our proposals. The fight against foreign gamers who want to add a fraction to the culture, volunteering and sport and run away with the rest in terms of profit is a fight we fight with several others. In 2015, 16 organisations, which together have several million Nordics as members, signed a treaty to maintain the exclusive right model, and I'm asking the Council of State to note that when she's getting warm in her sleep.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4386	The Jeløya Declaration states that the government is to pursue an offensive north-eastern policy in which the long lines of the north-eastern policy and the north-eastern approach are to be continued. The government has the vision that the northern regions will be a peaceful, creative and sustainable region and will follow up the strategy focusing on international cooperation, business development, knowledge, infrastructure, environmental protection, security and preparedness. Despite this, the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr, criticised the Northern Region Policy of the government in his contribution – the concept he himself claims he invented, but as he believes a Right-Chaired Government does not have the ability to follow up. This government’s north-eastern policy looks at foreign and domestic policies in the context and has thus filled the north-eastern policy with content, so that policy is relevant to the region. The problems are recognised by the government, and they solve the challenges that are needed for economic development. We will facilitate increased value creation and innovation capacity in the Nordic business community based on the resources of the national community, and we will strengthen the supplier development programme to ensure ring-effects that create new industries and skills jobs. This is to be taken into account when the government is to present a new growth message on north-eastern policy. The knowledge policy of this government, which is to ensure that all students leaving the Norwegian school have basic skills in reading, writing and billing, is also involved in solving north-eastern problems. By continuing to train and train teachers and strengthening teacher training for a five-year master, we will solve the major school-related challenges of the region. Students have a lower degree of completion and twice the proportion of unskilled teachers. I can give you an example of a vulnerable community in North Norway. Where four out of ten teachers do not have the skills to teach mathematics, classes leave school with the grade 2 or lower. 40 pst. by the students who left Sandfallen School, they did not have a grade of 2 or higher. We are going to improve this with a more forward-looking policy that puts teachers on the agenda. Because we're in the north and conditions are so small, the consequences of lack of competence in school become high. At present, more people have to be qualified in the labour market to meet their business needs for skills. This is what is happening in practice in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4401	In the years to come, the Norwegian economy has to get more legs to stand on. The Government Platform assumes that the values must be created before they are allocated. The government will make it easier to create new jobs and more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. We have to have a policy that doesn't make people go out of date, precisely because we're going to have a working life in a meeting where functions will be automated and robotized. This development is a challenge, but also a great opportunity for Norwegian business. At the same time, we need a working life that has room for everyone. Work is a key to self-respect and self-sufficiency. Many of those who are out of work will and can contribute, but unfortunately do not find the way in. That is why we need an inclusion tool in the private sector, and we need to take responsibility in the public sector. That's why I'm glad the government has a measure of at least 5 pst. by new employees in the State shall be disabled persons or with holes in the CV. It has a self-esteem for the individual, it's very important for the community, and it won't be sustainable either economically or socially if people go out of work and education. A good dwelling is a basic well-being, and most of us manage to get a good home on our own. But we have a responsibility for everyone, including the disadvantaged, being able to get into the housing market. That is why we are also lifting the social housing measures in this government platform. In the reply earlier today, the representative said Kaski from SV, which I believe shows that the opposition does not necessarily understand what is working in the housing social work. Both the SV and the Workers' Party will use the House Bank to provide loans to ordinary young people. These parties will also give priority to the fact that ordinary young people who are able to earn their own equity in a few years' time will go ahead of those who need it the most. By doing so, you make the House Bank a competitor into ordinary banks. The government is clear and priorities differ. We give more to those who need it the most, rather than lubricating it thinly to everyone. The result of our housing social policy is that more people will be able to fully finance their housing through start-up loans. Fewer homeless people have never been registered and efforts are directed at families with children. That work I am happy to follow up in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4416	Tonight, I was supposed to be on a folk weekend in Oppdal in Trøndelag and talked about how we're going to work with public health in the future, and what are our challenges. Instead, I am here and congratulate the new government on the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health. The fact that we have got such a minister, promises well, even though it seems like most people are only aware of her role as an elder minister, and even though she herself and the government statement talk more about age-friendly societies – whatever it may be. In the past, the representative Hoksrud and others have been somewhat whimsical because the opposition, instead of just contributing, criticised the Jeleya platform. I'll take that very seriously, and I'll give some advice on public health, as we in the Center Party would think about it. Health for the whole population, health for the whole population – there are many ways to express this great challenge. Health will be a major challenge in the years to come, also in our society. I have three messages: we can't go on like before. We have to work harder to promote health, which I also find little about in the platform, and prevent disease. Because there is a difference between promoting health and preventing disease. This is because it saves people from suffering, discomfort and premature death, but also because it is good economics. We can't have the economy in the future to continue the way we do today. It grieves, among other things: the age composition of society. Therefore, new ways of working and new, good public innovation are important. We've seen that the social differences are increasing, and then we know that the health differences in the population are also increasing. It's time for research, summarised in what's called the health gradient. Getting an increase in the social differences is the same thing as getting an increase in the health differences in our society. I have seen and heard here today defenders and participants of this government platform accuse the opposition of being living afraid of privatisation. I'm not afraid that people are going to make money, not even a lot of money. We're going to have private initiatives. But I'm afraid of a society of great differences, a society that doesn't all have the same opportunities, an unfair society, a less solidarity society. My sources of anxiety are that if the market is to determine a great deal in the area of health, inequalities will increase. Health is not an area suitable for high profits. This is where the public is to be held responsible. Here the public must be the guarantor. The UN has established that health is a human right, and Norway has been a country that has shown how it can be done, and that we provide equal health care to everyone. The centre party is concerned that we in Norway must start a hard work on health promotion and prevention, that people should have the same opportunities to choose good health, regardless of where they live and what they serve. Let's keep going with the thought that we've had and that's proven to be voting in the past. An equal society is a rich society, and it is not created with structural changes, but with changes in content and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4429	The climate challenge is one of the greatest challenges we have, and we are set to solve. It intervenes in all policy areas, whether it be refugee trauma, living conditions or business. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government has offensive objectives and signals a willingness to act on the platform that has been set up. Many cities in the world are harder than our country, and it takes the Christian People's Party very seriously. Forecasts show that large areas may be unsuitable for food production. Unfairly enough, these areas are in parts of the world that are already under pressure from poverty. This, in addition to the suffering, has aspects of a migration and security policy that we only see for ourselves the contours of. Nor will the government's debated rhetoric against refugees be enough to defuse the people's migrations that can come from this. On the road to a climate-neutral society, we have to make great adjustments to the changes that have already come, and those that will come. I also notice that the government is taking on board the importance of climate change adaptation and that they are signaling that they will meet this in several sectors. Climate change adaptation is not self-evident either. At the same time as we know the consequences of climate change on the body, we do not yet have an own professional environment outside the NVE system as a researcher, which helps communities, businesses and municipalities with climate adaptation. They have a great deal of competence, but there is a need for coordination and more research. We have our own research centres for energy, for emission reduction and for climate modelling, but the important societal area of climate adaptation is missing. The Christian People's Party believes that we should be able to live safely in all parts of our country, and that we must take seriously the danger of flooding, migration and change in nature. The cost of preventing is also lower here than when one needs to repair. It will be interesting to see how offensive the expanded government is when it comes to racial and flood protection work. The aftermath is in the billions class, yet this was among the areas that the Christian People's Party had to negotiate in connection with the state budget. We have noted the initiative that has come to establish a national knowledge centre on sustainable climate change adaptation, with the origins of Western research and the Hochskulen in the West. In close cooperation with regional and local authorities, such a knowledge centre can become a living laboratory where new solutions to adaptation to climate change are developed. In the State budget, the Christian People's Party received support from the Green and SV Environmental Party for a comment that says that a national climate change centre is interesting and should be considered more closely. I encourage the government to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4444	The Norwegian model, the low level of organisation and what the government wants to do about this are still more of the concerns in the Workers' Party. At the same time, the Labour Party attacks the Government to recognise that some do not choose to be a member of a trade union. There's a lot of play with words in this room. It is also interesting to read big messages, such as: St.meld 29 for 2010–2011, which was delivered by the red-green on 26 August 2011. I read: ‘A trust-based and efficient, high-legitimate cooperation of the Parties has led to the establishment of organisations. Similarly, it is an important aspect of our democracy that employees and employers should be free to set up and operate organisations, and be free to join the organisation they want, or not to organise. The Governing Boards are responsible for facilitating a good working life for all employees and employers — both organised and unorganised.’ In the Jeleia platform we read the following about working life: ‘The government’s objective is a Norwegian working life with both safety and flexibility for employees, serious employers and well-functioning and effective tripartite cooperation. Through cooperation between employers, workers and authorities, Norway has created one of the most modern and adaptable labour markets in the world. The Government will further develop the Norwegian model and believes that it is a competitive advantage for Norway with an equal and inclusive working life with a high level of organisation.’ [[...]] In a time when we should really talk more about how we can include more, the Workers' Party continues to polarize the debate. It is not for employees to do so, nor for those outside. Our society is losing sustainability. Tripartite cooperation has served Norway well. This is a framework that enables us to carry out policies and modernisations that go beyond time. It is therefore worrying that the degree of organisation is falling, but it is still a cross of thought that the YS in its 2017 work life barometer finds that 40 pst. by the trade unions agree with the claim: ‘Unions are too closely linked to political parties’. Trade unions have to make themselves relevant to today's workers, and they may have to break free from batch dependence. At the same time, the Workers' Party cannot only blame the Right, they should also look into whether the LO is sufficiently relevant to modern working life. Then perhaps the level of organisation can increase with more, and we will have more voices that can contribute to the discussions on the necessary modernisations to preserve a sustainable welfare society. That's what the next generations deserve, including those who are out of work and want a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4465	It's going very well in Norway. At the same time, we have some challenges for the future. It's about meeting conversion in a time of increasing automation and great technological possibilities. It's about ensuring that everyone gets to participate in society and can make an active contribution. This means that on the one hand, it's about getting more people to complete and pass their education courses and start early in lifting each individual student and at the same time putting up with an education system that ensures that we never go out of date, but learn throughout our lives. So far, we are laying behind the period of time for knowledge efforts in Norway, and through the Jelaua platform, the political basis is laid for further investment in knowledge and good growth. From learning through play in kindergarten to higher education, there is little doubt that children, students, students, adults and businesses have benefited from a new majority on the Stortinget since 2013 which has taken knowledge policy in a direction that is far more offensive, with higher stakes and more and more priorities. We already see that our kids are learning more, that the drop-out is going down, that in both the public and private sectors it's being researched as never before, and that those who want to stretch a little bit, or those who hang out a little bit, get better help and support now than not so many years ago. There has been a focused effort on teachers, skills requirements, real-time training, depth learning through the upcoming trade innovation and much more. We have high ambitions for school and our ability to lift all children. After hearing all the black paint from the opposition, it may be worth recalling that in a few years we have gone from late efforts directed towards the end of primary school to what is now a solid uplift for early effort. In contrast to our focus on knowledge, it is interesting to see that the Workers' Party is doing a complete turnaround and now it seems good that detailed management of the question of school fruit, contingency teams for bullying and suggestions on practical school bags, to mention something, is much better than demanding that teachers who teach Norwegian, math and English should have depression in their profession. I hope the parents will realize that the Workers' Party has already left the goal that all children will be able to meet a teacher with professional immersion by 2025. Today, the parental survey for kindergartens was also presented. Here private kindergartens cut higher than the municipal ones and come out well. Nevertheless, the Labour Party will cut non-municipal kindergartens by 300 million. kr in its alternative state budget, thus affecting half of the country's children. It is difficult to understand this policy, but for the right, it is at least natural to play with all the good forces of growth policy. Our children deserve it. There is no time to change course, reduce demands or have lower ambitions for Norwegian school and children’s growth – on the contrary. We're going to continue to invest in knowledge, and the new government platform provides a good basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4480	The debate on the government platform is quite revealing, it reveals the priorities of the parties. I have to say that it is quite perceptive that in this debate almost none of the opposition have raised challenges with knowledge and learning in the classroom. Almost no one talks about the student's learning outcomes, that the probability of completing high school is higher if you live in Oslo than if you live in Finnmark, whether you go in the a-class or in the b-class, if you have parents with high education and high income or with low income and low education. Instead, we have an opposition with the Workers' Party at the head that cracks a little in every direction and takes a U-turn in school policy every time they meet with opposition. The opposition is now constantly taking up several things to go into school, instead of ensuring depth learning in school. It's only a week since the Workers' Party declared that the first step towards repatriating their own school policy was to remove professional demands for teachers who teach. That's the wrong way to go. The right and government are uncompromising in prioritising school learning and knowledge. We're going to continue to strengthen the ground wall so that all students meet skilled, educated and engaged teachers. The rate of change in our society is increasing, knowledge is fresher. Digitalisation and automation are driving innovation and can contribute to increased productivity, but also make the skills we have more rapidly obsolete. There is a real risk that several occupational groups, especially low-paid in the private sector, may be converted from the labour market if we do not have a better system of lifelong learning. The Jelaua platform is smart: we need to reform our skills and qualify more people into the labour market. Making sure that they are constantly learning in the workplace is one of the most important tasks we have. The government is taking several measures, especially for those with weak basic skills, but we need to do more. Our educational institutions need to offer more continuing training. We need a system of real-time competence assessment. Businesses need more incentives to invest in the skills of their employees. Competence reform can and should be one of the most important welfare reforms in the next ten years, because if we are to have a sustainable welfare society, children have to learn in school an hour, and adults have to learn their whole lives: no people who go out on date.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4492	I am pleased that the government will invest more in new and green technology, because we need to further develop Norwegian industry and to further develop and create new businesses through a forward-looking industrial policy that facilitates value creation, profitable jobs and conversion of Norwegian business. It is therefore positive that the State should assess how it can contribute to more profitable projects and have access to capital. It is important that we can simplify and red tape, and it is not just in the public sector that there are time thieves. That is why I think it is good that it is so clear that we are going to develop a new green industry in Norway, of course by following up the action of the Industry Communication to contribute to Norway being a knowledge-driven industrial and technology nation. Here it is important for business to have a responsible and predictable economic policy based on the rule of action and to keep the economy in order. It is good for business, and especially for industry and Norwegian workers, that the majority agreed to abolish the machine tax before Christmas, which allows for a stronger development and renewal in Norwegian industrial enterprises. This will provide a long-term predictability that is absolutely necessary for both businesses and industry to be involved in the necessary conversion to a greener industry. In order to ensure that enterprises have the opportunity to have Norwegian owners, as well as to facilitate both existing and new enterprises, it is important to do something about the wealth tax on working capital. I have traveled a lot during the autumn that has been, and it is repeated by most in the farming industry how important the EEA Agreement is. Therefore, it is both important and right that the platform is so clear in terms of our relationship with the EEA. Fisheries and aquaculture are among the main future industries for Norway. Our fishing resources are an eternal resource that can contribute to growth and value creation here in the country and that requires sound management. It is therefore important that we manage to ensure a good recruitment to the industry. The left is well pleased that the government will pursue a business policy that provides a good framework for entrepreneurs and start-ups, making it easier to start own jobs, but not least to create jobs for more people. We are also pleased that the main line of Norwegian agricultural policy is solid, based on the agricultural communication that the non-socialist parties stood at the back of last year, including last year. an active understanding of the firmness of the channelling policy. The main task of agriculture is to produce good quality food, which Norwegian agriculture does, with a strong focus on animal welfare. The left believes, and has long thought, that we should have a differentiated and diverse agriculture throughout the country. Agriculture, like many other tasks, is also important for creating, not least in landscape management, which is once again important for the tourism industry. Through good interaction between tourism, agriculture, fisheries and reindeer management, one can also ensure that a bet is placed on local food and drink. That is why I am also very satisfied with the commitment to cleaning, and a clarification is that we have now put Saemien Sitje in place at Snåsa.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4513	The momentum of this debate began just like all the other debates in the previous period. Now the country has a new, expanded government, with a new party, with a new declaration and a new platform. The opposition leader in Stortinget is most concerned about whether the government should be called blue-green or blue-blue. The lack of political solutions is striking, and the black paint that I think was a strong contributor to the non-socialist electorate in the fall continues at the same rate and with the same tone. Further in his post, the representative Gahr Støre said that the government statement bears the mark of many honorary words to which it is easy to join, but which are not followed up with action. Well, one day after the Prime Minister gave the statement to the Storting, it may not be so strange that the entire statement has not been followed up with concrete actions. Some of the honorary words that Gahr Støre attacked to be honorary were that each student should meet a qualified teacher. I sincerely believe it is important that each student meets a teacher who has and has had the same requirements for immersion in the subjects in which he or she teaches. I just think the school is getting better. The Labour Party also agreed in the previous period. They agreed until 15 January this year. Then the Workers' Party turned around, and they no longer want teachers to meet skills requirements, which had effectively led each student to meet a qualified teacher. That's too bad. It shows a populist wing, and it leads in worst cases to greater differences between students around the country. Jonas Gahr Støre went on to say in his post that he agreed with the Christian People's Party that there was something missing about our national cultural heritage in the declaration. What was missing, however, he said nothing about it. Were there several honorary words that he in the minute before accused the government of having too many, or was there something concrete, such as removing the K in the KRLE subject, on which the Workers' Party went to elections? I think politics is more important than semantics, and what you actually do is more important than what is written. I am absolutely sure that this government is going to follow up our proud humanistic heritage in a good way. The Labour Party has almost as much faith in tax havens as the government parties, but only when it comes to a group in society, namely the trade unions. The Workers' Party considers that tax credits should be reserved for those who pay the quota, who are again transferred to the Workers' Party before each election. We want to give tax relief to everyone, including the trade unions, so that they themselves can keep more of their income, for saving, investing or whatever they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4528	When the chairman of the Judicial Committee, Lene Vågslid, took part in the debate with Helge André Njåstad of the Progress Party on Thursday, he was presented with the figures for the last four years in criminal custody and that they have directly affected the content of the settlement. This seemed to surprise Njåstad. He said that if it is true that this is taken from the floor, it is not good, and then he would take it up with the Minister of Justice. I appreciate this honest confession from Njåstad. The NFF, the trade union movement and we in the opposition have for four years pointed to the fact that the flat ABE reform has starved Norwegian prisons. Less work on the content of the ransom, weakened crime prevention and more isolation are some of the consequences. In addition, this government often shows contempt for organised labour, for the trade movement, for example by implementing this large-scale and so-called efficiency reform in the public sector without sufficient dialogue with the trade union movement, which was clearly communicated by Asle Aase of the NFF in the same debate. Norwegian prisons are going to do social security work and crime prevention for the benefit of all of us living outside the walls, too, for those in prison are going to be our neighbors one day. When it says that the government is going to work for a more rehabilitating criminal enforcement system by placing greater emphasis on the content of the ransom, I am pleased about that. But even here, they don't have triple blue very high trustworthiness. For what does this mean? Does it mean, for example, Rehabilitation programmes, such as sedentary care, are now to be returned to the criminal justice system? Does this mean that the voluntary organisations working every day with the follow-up and repatriation of former prisoners will now have a predictable framework? Does this mean that good rehabilitation measures such as the RobberRadion, the Vardetheater, the Blues Factory and other cultural offerings are to be given the place they deserve, without having to live in uncertainty until they are perhaps saved by the Christian People's Party in the last few years? If this means that, in the future, the members of the criminal service can go to work with certainty that their security has been ensured, that the prisoners are offered the help they need to create a new life on the outside of the walls, and if that means that we who live in the community around the prisons can be safe on our security because the government does what it can to ensure that people do not commit new crimes again, the government will prove that the declaration is something more than points on a sheet. The Labour Party is going to closely follow developments in criminal matters, and we hope the government will deliver more than empty words in next year's state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4541	The government says in its political platform that it will implement a drug reform in order to ensure a better offer to drug addicts. It is good that the government now agrees, among other things. The working party because it needs to be done. Those who are struggling with a drug problem need first of all that society provides help, not punishment. At the same time, the figures show that 282 drug-induced deaths occurred in 2016, and the high figures have remained stable at this level throughout the previous period of government. It's urgent to have new grips on this field. The Labour Party has therefore proposed a new overdose strategy, a work I hope the government will support. Because of the numbers we find people, and around are parents, grandparents, siblings, and friends who have lost someone they're happy with. In comparison, 107 on our roads died in 2017, 107 on many, but that's the lowest number in 70 years. Through targeted work, one of the last decades has succeeded in reducing traffic fatalities. It should inspire us to believe that it is also possible to succeed in a drug reform that can bring down the number of people who get their lives ruined or die because of drug abuse. Then we need to be open to new knowledge and powerful action. Among other things, there is a need for a stronger follow-up after people leave the institution. We know that during that period, the risk of overdose deaths is significantly higher. A job to go to, leisure activities and a positive social network is one of the things that needs to be done. But we also need good enough treatment capacity. Therefore, I am concerned that the Minister of Health, on a written question about the detoxification capacity in Health South-East after the termination of the agreement with the Borgestadklinik, seems to think that this is perfectly OK now, resulting in fewer detoxification sites. It bothers me, and there is no good contribution to helping more people out of drug abuse. Many of those who are struggling with drug abuse have experienced a history of their failure by society. We now have a common possibility of better dealing for those who need it the most. When this ageing period is over, I hope we can say that we have done our job so that not 282 new ones will end up in the statistics on drug-induced deaths every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4552	The Greens are a moderate party. It may be difficult to see in a country like Norway, where there is still good space for several parties along the green axis. But we believe that society works best with a balance between blue solutions, where market mechanisms and industry are central, red solutions, where regulation, state and municipality are central, and green solutions, based on grassroots democracy, volunteering and ideal actors – although, of course, we prefer the latter. However, the Government Declaration signals a new step in the blue direction, and we are at risk of being in a situation where market liberalism is seen as an objective in itself, rather than the market being seen as one of many tools and should be used with moderation. To translate a foreign expression: ‘If you only have a hammer, any problem will seem like a nail.’ I think many conservative thinkers would be critical to go too far in that direction. I think there are few of those who want to preserve our basis of life, who sleep with "Mammon's little blue" on the night table. I think that if we're going to be able to solve the challenges of the future, we can't put a simple tool first, we have to let our choices be governed by our goals. We have to take care of other people, no matter who they are, where they are, and where they come from. We have to take care of nature and the other animals, we have to take care of the generations of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4559	At that time it was 22, and according to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, the President is asking for consent to continue the Storting meeting until today's map has been completed. The consent shall be deemed to have been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4564	This debate has been a lot about the alleged increase in differences, various allegations of brutalisation and a race about who they think is the greenest in this country. There are famous tones from the election campaign we had this fall. It was a campaign where the voters gave us the fasit for what they think about that type of rhetoric. I guess we can say that it was a rhetoric they didn't like. And why didn't they like it? It was because it was a rhetoric that was not credible. Take, for example: the claim of a cold society with increased differences, etc.The statistics show that there is almost no change in differences in Norway over several decades. The few small increases in differences that can be explored are mainly due to increased immigration and poor integration – a policy on the left side of this room has been the exponent for a long, long time. We who conduct politics know one thing – that's that credibility wins elections. Batches without great credibility make poor choices. That's why the bourgeois side has won, that's why the three parties have now formed a new government. In a debate like this, it's very easy to write articles about the excellence of the government platform and the lack of direction in the opposition. I would rather try to highlight something positive that has emerged during today's debate. It's part of the platform that the opposition almost didn't devote a second to talking about. One of these is police and preparedness. This has been a debate in which of course there are floods of some sort of accepted criticism in different fields, but here they have almost been silenced. The increase in funds and employees of the police in the last four years has been significant, the arrows are pointing in the right direction, everyday crime is falling, the confidence of the police remains very high, preparedness has improved significantly, and the PST has recently launched a new threat assessment that shows that the response to extremism actually helps. Extremeists are still a threat, but more and more of them sit behind locks and beat or are under surveillance. So the opposition is kind of silent about this. Why is this a positive sign? I think we should interpret it in the best possible way. This may indicate that there is in fact a cross-political agreement that the government has delivered well over time in this field, that the efforts of the police and our security authorities have been all in all good. It gives stability, it gives peace and continuity, which I think the justice sector will serve in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4571	Morten Wold had taken over the president's seat here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4576	Today, we could read in Asker and Bærum, saying that the company Moderne Byggrenewung AS had to shut down because customers choose unprofessional companies that offer cheaper services. The manager of the company says that it is sad to witness that the unprofessional local craft companies are competing seriously. It is serious that so many people say yes to work and services without tax. Those who buy black services are contributing to the fact that unprofessional and criminal companies have a market to invest in. The victim’s side is a brutalised working life, underpaid workers and the loss of large tax revenues, which undermines our welfare state. In the new government platform, combating labour-life crime is on the agenda. And to the Workers' Party: This is not a fine tribute, it's a will and action behind the words. In the last four years, the government has had a good dialogue and cooperation with the social partners. Many good measures have been put in place to combat crime at work. For it is not just the opposition that is fighting against the crime of working life, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen said earlier this evening. The government will also bring black work to life and will continue its targeted efforts to facilitate a well-organised working life and well-functioning tripartite cooperation. In the largest cities, Bergen, Stavanger, Oslo, Trondheim and Kristiansand, the police, the Tax Agency, Nav and the Labour Inspectorate have been co-located in local work-life crimping centres to combat work-life crime. Employees from these departments work closely together and carry out joint supervision, guidance and control of selected industries. This measure has produced very good results, but much more needs to be done. Labour crime has become more widespread and more difficult to detect. That is why the fight against this type of crime must be a top priority, with ever new instruments. In particular, online services should be subject to more control. Many people clearly experience being offered different craft services at a black price. Labour-life crime is a threat to good working life. In addition, we lose billions of tax revenue – income that should go to school, roads and health. The NLO and the NLO have promoted six main measures against black work and labour crime. They point out, among other things: that private people have to take greater responsibility for buying white and not black. There has to be a change of attitude. This is followed up in the Government Declaration of the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left. It is important to work with attitudes change – be faithful and honest in the small. Private buyers and individuals need to get their eyes up and see that they are involved in combating the crime of working life when they buy white and make others do the same. If we are to succeed in eliminating unprofessional operators, the black services market must be removed. Everyone must become more aware and accept no offer for black work. The old saying is the same today: the healer is no better than the stealer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4597	In the government statement, the three government parties state that Norway has to change, so that we reach our climate commitments and take care of nature. It has to be focused on new green technology, the polluter has to pay, and we have to develop markets for zero-emission solutions. The government is proposing to cut Norwegian climate emissions by 40 pst. in the non-quota sector in cooperation with the EU. In addition, the government will continue its work on CO 2 funds for industry and strengthen and professionalise efforts to combat marine pollution by, inter alia, to increase support for various clean-up measures. It is also necessary to facilitate the socio-economical profitable production of renewable energy in Norway. The strong population growth, especially in urban areas, will generate more transport. The need for goods, services and work travel will increase as growth progresses. It is particularly important to facilitate the mobility, cycling and use of public transport. Reward agreements, urban environment agreements and urban growth agreements are state schemes that have zero growth for car passenger transport as their overall objective and are followed up in line with the adopted national transport plan. The use of new technologies can significantly reduce the negative effects of transport on climate and the environment. Climate-friendly means of transport and fuels can contribute to the transition to the low-carbon society. Today, the government is supporting the phase-in of new technologies, including: through Enova. Technological changes are expected to gradually balance the differences between modes of transport in terms of environmental and climate characteristics and transport safety. This could have a major impact on the use of the various modes of transport. In the national transport plan 2018-2029, the government strengthens freight transport in order to ensure good competitive conditions for Norwegian industry, including: by facilitating the increased use of a larger vehicle, such as a modular wagon train. During the planning period, the government will make major investments on rail in order to improve the reliability and efficiency of rail freight. The government also facilitates the transport of more goods by sea and rail, especially at long distances. An incentive scheme is established for the transfer of transport by sea and measures stimulating the development of more environmentally friendly and efficient ports. The government will further stimulate the use of environmentally friendly transport technology, alternative fuels and improve transport and logistics efficiency. Within a few years, new car sales have changed. The supply of electric cars and rechargeable hybrid cars is constantly increasing, and prices are falling. The electric car’s reach is increased and zero-emission vehicles are expected to become the preferred means of transport for households. The hybrid cars had 31,3 pst. market share in 2017, while in 2016 it was 24,5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4615	The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, said in his statement earlier this evening that the Jeleia declaration is a platform for more centralisation. I could not have disagreed more. After spending four years talking about the government's district policy and how bad it was going to go with the districts when the Right Rule ruled, it must be difficult to be in opposition, and especially in the Center Party, by day. Because when we make up the status after four years, we see that there is record low unemployment in several states, the inland country is going well, North Norway is realized as a growth engine, and even in the South-West, which was hit hard by the downturn, things go better and the prospects look brighter. There are several reasons why districts are doing well. One important factor is that the government has listened to the industries themselves. We've reduced the taxes that have made it difficult for Norwegian companies to compete internationally. The removal of machine taxes facilitates the use of heavy machinery industries. The investment in infrastructure makes it easier to transport goods around our country. It is good to see that the government platform continues its good work over the last four years. The government will facilitate living communities and growth throughout the country. To do that, we need profitable jobs, a business that is able to take care of jobs and at the same time create new jobs. Therefore, it is good that the government will give priority to the instruments that can strengthen innovation and re-establishment in all parts of the country, and it is good that the government will decentralise power and give municipalities and county councils greater authority and space for action. From this pulpit it can sometimes seem that district policy is only about state subsidies and action places, but the Right and this government have much more faith in District Norway. That is why we are focusing on transport, travel, fisheries, digitisation and industrial development, and that is why we are strengthening the link between businesses and public institutions. The selections were transparent to the opposition, and not least the Central Party's black-painting in the election campaign. The government re-elected. The voters want good district policy, not a lot of district criticism. It's not necessarily about more money for everything, but about increased value creation, more jobs and green conversion. I look forward to working on the good solutions, which ensure living communities and growth throughout Norway. It is the cornerstone of a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4629	As this debate has underlined, the government platform is full of good visions. But if visions are to be transformed into everyday realities, the political grips must build up under the visions, not draw the opposite direction. When the goal is a sustainable welfare society, the pillars that create sustainability must not be weakened. The experience of the previous four years is that policy has weakened the main pillars. It's the many small cracks that eventually cause the sustainability to burst. The government says it wants an inclusive working life with a high level of organisation, but acknowledges that many choose to be unorganized. It's talking out of both mouths. The deterioration we now see in the degree of organisation and the signs of a fragmentation of the organisations is a weakening of the foundation of well-functioning tripartite cooperation. Continued development may change the basis of wage formation in Norway, where the competitive sector has been in the driver’s seat. It has been a prerequisite for our ability to have good competitiveness, because wage growth is based on productivity growth. The government should then have a clear message: strong organisations in the labour market are important. Instead, the government warns of its unwillingness to strengthen organisations by reducing the economic value of the trade union deduction over time. The working party will do the opposite. Another danger of weakening the sustainability of our welfare society is falling participation in the labour market. In my home country, Eastfold, the employment rate is now 60 pst, against 66 pst. in the country as a whole. It's alarming. Innovation and conversion must be more than words. We need to build up under new jobs, based on Norwegian preference, using targeted instruments as the Workers' Party will. The need for conversion and innovation did not come with the oil price drop or the oil money use in the previous period. Norwegian business has been in transition ever since. From 2005 to 2013, 350,000 more jobs were created, two thirds in the private sector, and that during a global financial crisis. It is quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that we need a more inclusive working life and to counteract social dumping and the crime of working life. If this is to be done, the means of action must not be eliminated, such as collective redress. Failure to use professionalism in the workplace as far as possible to detect fraud and fantasy is not just a weakening of the fight against social dumping. It's just stupid. It also affects serious companies that will follow the legislation and be allies in the fight against the cheaters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4648	The government parties say that after the period they will return the country in a better condition than it has been until now. I come from an area where one screams for a different fisheries policy from what we now have. I refer to the Kystop tube and the actions that have been there. Loppa is a municipality in Finnmark. This municipality has secured its living for all years, but has little activity because the fishing fleet is gone. Unfortunately, many municipalities along the Norwegian coast are in the same situation. It's not going to work, so it's going to suck all over North Norway. Loppa municipality is in today's Municipal Report predicted to be depopulated in a short time. Loppa is close to some of the best we have of fishing resources, all the way up the rocks. It's been a culture to make the best possible use of your resources. It's not many years since life in Loppa was a good life to live. People were happy and managed to do a little combination business – fishing and agriculture. What was nice was that the whole family was there, and you had a nice way of recruiting for the industry. The need for the big money has never been in such societies, but they've had it to last. They have paid their bills, and bought when they have had money. Quotas for fleets now make it virtually impossible for a youth to purchase into the industry. Government batches indicate that structurings should also be considered for the smallest fishing fleet. In Loppa, such signals create uncertainties in an industry that needs predictability. The centre party wants the fishing resources to remain jointly owned by the Norwegian people. We want to manage resources and allowances fairly and in a way that does not contribute to centralisation either within the regions or between parts of the country. The central party wants fisheries and aquaculture policy to be designed to meet the national policy objectives of employment and settlement in coastal communities. The fishing industry must be further developed by building on the advantages of high-quality fresh raw material. The centre party is committed to facilitating increased further processing in Norway. The Centre Party will promote and support proposals which will restore the fish to the fishery waters to which the fish belong and which have belonged in the historical period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4657	It has now been 23 years since the Stortinget last cut into a state budget. 1995 was the last time government expenditure fell compared to the previous year. I was about to say that so expensive an OL could be. Since that time, we have increasingly lived by the returns of our natural resources. We have met most of the challenges and crises of wasting money — in practice, natural resources — after them. To what extent we have done so, perhaps the best description is that almost all of the increased employment that has come since 1950 has been used to fill the void after increased leisure time. It cannot continue. In order to do this, we have done something that we often forget is an essential part of the Norwegian model: we have systematically exploited all the possibilities for efficiency improvement and increased productivity we have been able to find. We have used the freed work capacity to increase our well-being. But every year since 1995, there has been growth in government expenditure. Today we have only two meeting representatives and someone in the government who remembers the last time it was cut. It feels like a law of nature that the state budget increases from year to year, but the tree does not grow into heaven. Differences in total natural resource use have actually been small between batches, but the potential burden on the backs of private enterprises when collecting fewer oil crowns has become high. Now the picture is changing in the future. The government statement takes this into account and points to the basics: more people have to work, and we need more profitable businesses. Taste it. ‘Rewardable’. ‘Commercial’, perhaps the representative, Mr Moxnes, would like to say indignantly. But that's where our tax revenue comes from – commercial successes. Commercial failures only have deductions. The big thing's opposition has really not taken this on board. Before the last few days of the proposal, 105 representatives were put forward. Probably good suggestions, but of these, nine out of ten are larger or smaller expenditure increases — from small costs of investigation to 100 million. kr-class for grain storage, loss of billions of revenue for the cessation of exploration drilling or potential billion-dollar expenditure on airy hyperloops. Only four provide opportunities for reduced expenditure, and the most concrete thing is to reduce training costs and pay for teachers. That is the consequence of eliminating the new skills requirements. It's a little bit of a surprise to me when you first problematize the lack of competence of the temporary workers for the teachers who are in the process of improving their skills, so to speak, to point out that the solution is to lower their qualifications. If the diagnosis is too low, it is mildly strange to lower the competence requirements. None of the proposals facilitate job creation, but many make it more difficult. There's one simplification proposal, but I'm not sure how much practical simplification in the rules for the use of electric motor in small water will have. So allow me here to point out that from my point of view it's not that it's just to oblige the government to balance the government's expenditure and the size just to increase it. Both have their responsibilities for the whole. We know that the reality of the future is that we need to reduce bureaucracy, not increase it. We need to reduce the barriers in order to create profitable businesses and jobs, not increase them. We need to use every opportunity to increase productivity to create new well-being. Then we can create the jobs we need to provide a sustainable welfare society. It points out this government statement, the Jeløya platform, the direction for: more jobs and a forward-looking welfare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4672	I signed with the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde's posts. I did it because he told me what the government's aim is in the aid policy. He said: ‘The government’s aim in the aid policy is to promote Norwegian interests. Norway first, you can say," he said. I don't think you can. The representative was involved in the immigration accounts, whether or not people paid for themselves. I'm more concerned with the refugee account. According to the 2017 refugee accounts, 65.6 million people fled from war, conflict and persecution. Some of them are Palestinians. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde was also in that conflict in his post. He was concerned about mentioning that Palestinian self-government authorities are current candidates to experience cutbacks in support from Norway. It almost seems as if the Progress Party thinks we should follow the United States here too – the United States that, having recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, has decided to cut 512 million. funds from the United Nations Relief and Works Organisation for Palestinian Refugees in the Middle East. The cut will have devastating consequences for vulnerable Palestinian refugees all over the Middle East, including hundreds of thousands of refugee children who depend on that relief organization for education. Education as the government says is so important. Parents will be deprived of their safety nets to help them survive. Besides, it robs people of hope. It itself will help further destabilise an entire society, and it should worry the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. Since the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, 2,900 Palestinians have been injured and some have been killed. These «some» are 16 years, 16 years, 15 years, 17 years, 28 years, and one is 30 years. The number of house rails has increased. The number of house reefs in occupied East Jerusalem has increased. Those who live in those houses are not given an alternative. Many of them are rather placed in prison without law and judgment, six months at a time. In such a situation, the world needs a Norway that, in foreign and aid policy, concentrates primarily on what we can do to contribute, and what we can do to resolve conflicts to help stabilise, create hope and help, not primarily to create enemy images and think about ourselves. In aid policy, Norway cannot be said first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4687	We who sit in this room are so lucky that our task is to help everyone who lives in Norway get the best life possible. We are privileged, and we have a great responsibility. That is why I am very pleased that we have now received a government platform for a sustainable welfare society that facilitates it, that everyone living in Norway will have the best life possible, and that we will be able to maintain one of the world's best welfare societies for the coming generations as well. What is closest to my heart is education and research policy. Education and research policy is a necessary premise to address most of the main challenges that governments have identified. One important piece in this is to make sure that we get even higher quality in higher education. The Government Platform is aware that the quality notification for higher education and the humanities notification will be carried out. When the long-term plan for research and higher education is revised, higher education will have a legally larger place there. These are important tools for raising the quality of higher education, which I am happy to continue working with. Other key elements are the further development of the system of centres of excellence in education and the strengthening of the national educational quality arena. Norway is a long-term country with large distances and varied industrial structures, and it is necessary to ensure a wide and good education provision throughout the country. But Norway is at the same time a small country, and that means that we must also focus on developing some professional environments to become world leaders, and on research and development where we have some special advantages and needs. I am pleased that the government platform determines that it will pay to be a good teacher, and that education will be a credit for recruitment and attendance. I fully agree with the Norwegian student organisation that if we are to be able to get a culture of quality where employees work together on education, and where education has the same status as research, then educational work must be of merit. Ensuring good quality in right-wing education also requires that we provide students with a good funding for their studies and a good welfare offer. The government will continue to escalate the support for the study to eleven months, and continue to ensure that more student housing is developed. The latter means that we will also review the cost framework and subsidy rates to ensure that we get the dwellings planned. It is very exciting that a test scheme will be introduced with combined residential care and student housing. This has worked well in other countries, and I hope we can reap the same experiences here. Last but not least, an important measure is the strengthening and follow-up of students’ mental health. I am very pleased that the Left has joined this extended government, a government that has become even better, not least in the field of education and research. I hope we can continue the good cooperation with the Christian People's Party on knowledge policy and quality in higher education even during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4704	This is an interesting debate to follow. I do not recognize the description of the reality of the Prime Minister, her party traps and the members of the other government parties. They talked both about the whole country and about everything going so well. Well, we got a clear reminder that statistics and facts are about what a meter is, and about how a meter reads it, among other things. when the SSB case was on the last harvest. If we measure local democracy and the decentralisation of power with the Progress Party in the driver's seat, which will, as well, shift power from the office and central power, the government is cutting poorly. It is not as good in our country in this area as it could have done, whether the Senter Party was in and out of the country. The left, which seems to be allergic to rematches, has to sit with snouts now, when the municipal reform is to be continued. If the government has removed all economic space, will any future mergers become more voluntary? - No, I'm not. Does grouping make sense, even with more problems, when the area does not look like the pig – an area not even a Viking had submerged? - No, I'm not. The government uses business as an alibi for several drastic grips. But if that's what we know, predictability is an important competitive advantage for businesses. Charges introduced overnight, reduced customs frontiers and, where appropriate, increased electricity prices in the provision of sovereignty and control over our energy market to the EU do not give Norwegian companies a advantage. One advantage we have today, and a prerequisite for the digitization that several people see in the future, is electricity – cheap electricity. This distinction now wants the government to challenge. We have also witnessed conflicts in the government between ministers in different departments and now also between ministers in the same department. When criticizing the government, we often get the question back: but what would you do if you were in government? I can safely say: Had Gahr Støre been prime minister, it would have been orderly in the ranks. Fortunately, during the fall campaign, there was a district uprising. The Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Left have a weakened parliamentary basis in the Stortinget, and the Central Party is stronger than for a long time. The Centre Party will provide more funds to municipalities and counties, free funds for local police and for ambulances and local hospitals. We want a strong protection for our homes. We want food production throughout the country and local self-government. We do not want to introduce a surcharge increase overnight or have a feast in oil money. We will ensure predictable conditions for and regional development resources for jobs and value creation near people. A forward-looking policy close to people and to the whole country, with value creation and jobs where the resources and people are – we will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4719	The President is in doubt as to whether the expression 'not like the pig' is within Parliamentary acceptable terms, but we are moving on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4724	In the last four decades, there has been an accounting for the amount of cultivated land that is redisposed and used for other purposes here to land. Although there has been an overview since 1976, it is only in the last 10–15 years that the vulnerable resource of food has been a theme in the Norwegian word change. The Bondevik II government launched a halving target in 2004, and that time the goal was to bring under 6,000 decares of re-disposed land per year. Only one year, in 2014, we have achieved this goal in the last 20 years. The JELUE government statement tells us that the Right, the Progress Party and the Left have agreed that one should follow up the soil protection strategy, which has the objective of redisposaling less than 4,000 deches annually by 2020. When the Liaison Committee followed the soil protection strategy on its board yesterday, the Government Party found out instead that they would not present an updated soil protection strategy in the context of the revised national budget for spring. If there's one point where I actually believed that the Left would be with and raise this government, it was in the field of soil protection – but it wasn't like that. Therefore, it is good that the government party now has to renew the soil protection strategy because of the plurality of the Stortinget. It is necessary, for the sake of future food production, food security and living districts. But this is happening at the same time as the same government statement tells us that municipalities and county councils will have more tax-free local and local space for action in land policy. All experience shows that municipalities do not have the power to resist when large companies promise jobs. Therefore, a strengthening of the power of the State to secure the food earth must not weaken it, as this government has done. It's a paradox to me that when it comes to soil protection, which is irreparable if the land is first developed, this government thinks that municipalities have to have self-government, while, among other things, when it's in force. municipal structure, property tax and other things that can be changed if the voters want to change, the municipalities are not allowed to control themselves. So the government party wants municipalities and county councils to have more responsibility, but at the same time says that one should use more state planning before transportation to reduce planning time and coordinate public objections better. The centre part, as you know, wants to protect food soils and provide them with permanent protection. We need to take more serious care of soil protection in the planning processes. If you look at the re-disposal of food in connection with new cultivation here to land, people might want to lie down behind and think that this is not so dangerous. But this is not an excuse. If this is the case, it will be dramatic for Norwegian self-sufficiency in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4737	Prime Minister Solberg invited in his post The Stortinget not to use too many words to avoid creating unnecessary distances and differences. I would like to reiterate to the Prime Minister, through the President, that it would help the debate a lot if the government representatives in general and the Prime Minister in particular had been politically honest in view of their intentions. When we read the government platform, it has several serious aspects, of course, but I choose to focus on what I see as politically very serious. It is that the government platform is implementing a fundamental attack on the organisation of our welfare state. The public organisation and operation, which have marked the whole development of our welfare production, with equal rights and zero profit as a goal, are challenged in a fundamental way through the Government Declaration, for never has it wished for private individuals to take over the welfare and health services to be formulated so clearly from any right party in the post-war period in Norway as this government statement does. If they succeed, Norway will not be able to recognise in a few years, as we have known Norway on the welfare side over all years. We just have to listen to some of the formulations -- I'm just reaching some, because there are many. Listen to this, for example.\t\t You can change the ‘ensure a level playing field between the public and private sectors so that more private service providers can contribute to the achievement of the Community’s tasks’.» They will break down the main principle of the organisation of well-being, on which we have built up to now, namely that the municipalities have been able to choose between their own operations and possible outsourced competition. That principle has to be zeroed out. I hope that the Storting, when dealing with the concrete follow-up of such a case, will say no to this. Furthermore, they shall prevent public undertakings from being granted special advantages resulting in distortions of competition. This is another example of a whole new way of organising well-being. All of this will contribute to a gradual takeover of the well-being on which the private can make money, while the municipalities and democracy will remain with the rest. This is right-wing policy, as we have seen it across Europe, which has led to the great differences in welfare production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4755	For the Workers' Party, it is disappointing to see that the government platform provides a continuation of a society with increasing disparities and a more unsafe working life, and that one does not address the major challenges we face. We are seriously concerned about increasing social dumping, because more and more people are out of work, while several companies are concerned about the lack of recruitment. The labour market is characterised by rapid technological development and increased globalisation. It gives rise to changes in the composition of the business, in the tasks of the work and to increased requirements for competence. Industries and businesses in the private and public sectors describe the needs of more skilled workers and young people who will make professional careers. According to SSB projections, there could be a deficit of 90 000 skilled workers in 2035. This year, in 2018, it is the year of the professionals. Then one would think that the wish was to raise the status of the professional subjects. There's nothing we can just decide. We have to make words into action. Then we must strengthen the rights of workers, not weaken them. We need to increase the degree of union, not reduce it. We must raise the status of vocational teachers, not interfere with an increasing teaching shortage. We need to increase the implementation of vocational training and ensure the labour market's required competence in the coming years. We must raise the status by further developing the profession as an attractive career path. The general professions of vocational training programmes need to be disseminated more professionally. More attention needs to be paid to the access of teachers and students to counselling and career guidance services. We need to increase efforts for a serious and organised working life and improve the opportunities for skills development and language training, because attractive jobs increase status and can increase motivation for implementation and choice of vocational training. The answer is not increased competition with foreign enterprises, more temporaryity and reduced trade union deductions. It is not a single measure that works, but the sum of several in close cooperation with the social partners. But first you have to recognize the reality of our young people, and the status of the professions needs to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4764	Workplaces, safety and distribution of values in Norway will be among the major problems that we will solve in the main hall in the coming years. For these three, there is a red thread from food, agriculture and the food industry. Nevertheless, it was not mentioned in a word when Erna Solberg presented the government statement yesterday. For the Workers' Party, on the other hand, it is clear that we need a policy that allows people to work on food production in the years to come. Our natural resources are to be managed so that even young people can create a future of producing food without having to be indebted to speculatively high property prices. The Norwegian model with practical and wise property legislation contributes to this precisely. Other countries look to us to figure out how to ensure distribution and value creation. Scotland is struggling with large parts of the country being concentrated on a few property groups and property owners. Denmark is struggling with a liberalism that has led to both antibiotic resistance and indebtedness. A wise agricultural policy shall provide jobs and safe food, not unlimited bank profits and undesired bacterial flora. Interestingly, many different people notice that we succeed in Norway. When Bill Gates visited our country, he wrote: Some of the things that impressed me most during the family holiday to Norway were how Norwegian farmers have succeeded in challenging circumstances. And I want to add: it's hard work, honest effort and the result of a practical and wise policy that has made it possible just to use less resources, for example. in the West, where he was. Fortunately, the majority take responsibility. Yesterday, the Economic and Social Committee made an effort to improve the safety of the people of Norway by requiring the government to start work on the emergency storage of cereals and to present a case to the Stortinget in 2019. That's good news for everyone who's involved in food production, security and value creation in our country. We still have to take that responsibility into this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4778	I have listened with interest to the debate today and lack anything. There has been a lot of talk about climate and little about agriculture before the previous speaker was here and helped a little. But I found it disappointing that the government party is so little busy with food production when discussing the government platform. I had hoped that when the Left came into government, they would at least take district agriculture more seriously. But the Jelöya document is just a confirmation that more right-wing policies are coming into agriculture. It is great that the Minister of Agriculture is busy with local food, increased local food production and shortages, not least as an interaction with Norwegian travel life. But then one must have an agricultural policy at the bottom that also allows one to use the required grassland in steep hills in the West, which is actually one of the most important backgrounds for a strong travel life. It seems that the honeymoon that is being used, to give more freedom, in practice means opening up more imports of foreign goods. There shall be more competition at any cost. One must not forget that those who really need a strong cooperative are the district graces. It's the farmers that have a long way to the market. The representative Tom-Christer Nilsen was busy with expenses, because one had to see how one got the most out of the funds. Then it's time to think about how long to spend extra money to build a strong competition, which is already strong, instead of building strong lighthouses that can take up the fight with the imported goods. Why should farmers not be allowed to have a safe and strong market regulation that ensures their income, which means that young people are willing to invest in the industry and build a safe way of life? We must maintain the right of nobility and the right of residence so that farmers dare to invest in an industry where they know that the next generation can safely take over and build on. Then a team has a culture where one has to deliver the garden into a better constitution than he was when one took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4791	There has been a debate where we, representing the opposition parties, have expected to get a government statement that can best be described as the wool. But the concreteizations have been absent. As the Council of State, by the Council of State and by the spokesperson of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, has taken the floor, the major projects have been delayed. Six main areas and a variety of solutions were a representative from the government parties who said from the pulpit to the chest. Even I noticed that the newly-appointed elder minister, when she was asked to describe her portfolio and her constitutional responsibility to Stortinget, chose not to answer that question. Well, the Progress Party wants government funding for the care of the elderly, right doesn't want it. The slightly disparate approach to the state funding of care for the elderly in six municipalities has been provisionally evaluated, and from the evaluation report: ‘What can be said so far is that neither the review of statistical material nor qualitative observations in the municipalities provide a clear picture of how the experiment has affected the service provision of the municipalities. The changes we observe are equally likely to be attributed to changes in demography and random variation. Some municipalities point out that they have established lowthreshold measures. [[...]] It is difficult to claim that these are the effects of the experiment, as similar initiatives also take place in the control group consisting of municipalities that are not involved in the experiment.’ [[...]] No government can promise to fix the care of the elderly with a pinch. What is needed is that many good actions should work together, that policy should include clear quality requirements, that funding should support the objectives, and that the state and local authorities should play on the ground. The method of the Progress Party has been ill-founded directives from a desk in Oslo. The best care services we know are being developed in the municipalities of skilled professionals who know the needs of their people and where people live their lives. Fortunately, the opposition has formed a majority to improve the care of the elderly with flexible instruments for municipalities, a powerful funding of daily services for demente and new forms of housing to receive services. With the decisions taken today, at least the new Minister of Older People has several specific projects to work with from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4809	Jeleia platform is not wool. On the contrary, it shows clear priorities, not least in the field of the environment. Climate change, the spread of pollutants and waste, such as plastics in the sea, and the loss of natural diversity are the main environmental threats of our time. There is no doubt that the government will pursue offensive and forward-looking climate and environmental policies. It is true that much of the content of the Jeløya platform is based on agreement between the four civil parties in the previous period – whether it is the energy message, it is the national transport plan, it is four years of budgetary unity or it is the nature diversity communication. There were four parties that agreed in the previous period. Now there are three batches in a blue-green government to implement and reinforce measures from the previous period. Climate policy is based on three key objectives. Firstly, we are going to cut emissions at home; secondly, we are going to implement measures that contribute to significant global cuts, and thirdly, we are going to convert the Norwegian economy to create growth and new jobs. Norway shall be a driver of international climate change work. There's a lot of things to do. We will follow up the decision that Norway should be climate-neutral in 2030, we will conduct negotiations with the EU on the Paris Agreement and its joint implementation by 40 pst. reduction, we need to comply with the Kyoto Protocol, and we need to strengthen the climate agreement with enhanced efforts also by 2020. This includes, inter alia: follow-up of the national transport plan with public transport operations and railway operations. We have decided that the electric car benefits will continue in this period too, we have a blending target for biofuels and strengthening towards 2020, we are betting on green shipping – the river ferries are an example for the whole world – it is a commitment to the environmental technology system, and the Research Council and Enova have their investments. Plastics in the sea are rapidly increasing and a very serious threat to the environment. We're going to keep cleaning up what we can do. Last year there were 48,000 who were involved in clearing beaches in Norway, and we need to expand and professionalise the cleaning up of plastics. But then we must also prevent the spread of plastics in nature. With an action plan for microplastics, whether from artificial grass tracks or other sources, systematic work is needed to stop this. We must have better waste management and develop our waste treatment against a circular economy in the years to come. Norway’s international leadership in the fight against marine pollution shall be strengthened. So finally the nature and natural diversity message: We will take care of Norwegian nature. By a civil majority, we've got a 10% forest protection measure. It has to be continued. There are new plans in the area by area. Norway shall be converted into a modern and sustainable low-carbon society. The Jeleia platform is a good tool to implement this conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4826	There is little about predatory policies in the government statement, but we have seen and read in the past that the new climate and environment minister has been critical of allowing two wolf flocks to be taken out within the wolf zone. We have also seen the new Minister for Climate Change and the Environment support for WWF's actions against the State in an attempt to stop the Wolfey Act, as a majority on the Stortinget have decided. There is little doubt that the new Minister for Climate and Environment does not agree with the majority of Storting on the management of predators. In the summer of 2016, it was found that the stock target for wolves had been exceeded and a decision was taken on the licensing of wolves. In the winter of 2016-2017, a large part of this licensing agreement was halted by the Ministry of Climate and Environment because the Ministry gave a crazy view of the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act as the basis for its review. This led to the Stortinget in March 2017 instructing the government on how the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act were to be understood. A broad majority of the population agrees that a significant number of wolves should be taken out in Norway, since the number of wolves is much higher than the population target. In December, there was an authorisation for the licensing of wolves in the Julussa and Osdal reviruses. Early in January, the hunt was cancelled when 16 wolves were in the field. It is now suggested that there are more wolves in the reefs than originally assumed – at least five–six in addition to those already under control. As State Secretary Lunde said, the wolves are associated with the two flocks to be removed. This must be understood as meaning that the intention was to take out both flocks in their entirety. The centre party expects the government and the new climate and environment minister to follow up the stock target of the Storting for the wolf and to allocate additional quotas and then licensing on the basis of this quota. The overall picture that emerges is that today’s predatory game management takes too little account of the community and business community concerned, bringing Norwegian predatory game policies into disrepute and creating a number of problems for entrepreneurs and communities around the country. The Central Party expects the new government and the new Minister for Climate and Environment to follow up the decisions and targets adopted by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4837	The Workers' Party is responsible for an educational policy that gives individuals and the Norwegian society the knowledge and competences they need for the future. As a education policy, I am concerned when knowledge is not mentioned among the six major challenges that the enlarged government is going to solve with its platform. I'm worried when the government doesn't answer how to meet unresolved challenges in kindergarten, elementary school and higher education. It's going to be worse for those who need us adults the most when it comes to the younger ones, but of course it's going to have unfortunate consequences for everyone who needs to get ready for the future. There is a lot of vague and non-obligatory about higher education and research in the government statement, but little firm policy. An example from higher education: The government will increase the ‘number of study places in line with the needs of the workplace and the needs of students’, but they do not say anything about how many are involved or what subject areas. If students want to dimension the offer, it's going to be a challenging way of steering an entire sector. Another example: here's nothing about a necessary uplift for construction and infrastructure, which the Solberg I government also downgraded. A third: The government will build more student homes, but says nothing about the number or goal. In research, there are some good points, but there is little to strengthen research on the major societal challenges we face, to increase efforts in the welfare state's professions and professions, and there is little ICT and technology. All in all, we see terrible targets for a sector that deserves clear direction from the authorities. The working party stands for more clear ambitions, and we put the money on the table to reach them. We have solutions to all of the points that I now drew out. For example, we are budgeting. with 3000 new places of study, so that more people are able to gain access and that those who are outside the labour market can gain their skills. Study places are an investment in the industries of the future, technology development and the skills of the welfare state. We are focusing on new research programmes for ICT and data security, professional research and social security and preparedness, to mention another concrete example, and we are saying that we will build 3,000 student homes. We also have a plan for investment in construction and infrastructure in the university and higher education sectors. So, in summary, the Workers' Party is investing in everyone's knowledge. We have an offensive commitment throughout the knowledge chain, from kindergarten to higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4860	The left has ambitions on behalf of all children, regardless of background and social affiliation, and we believe that the teacher is most important for students' learning. We believe that all children deserve qualified teachers, and teachers deserve the opportunity to increase their qualifications – for the benefit of themselves and their profession, but also for the benefit of their students. To achieve the ambitious goals, we need more teachers, and we need to bet on the teachers. By expanding the provision of further training for teachers, we ensure up-to-date school skills, knowledge that can help stimulate young people in an important learning phase. In order for teachers also to have more time to focus on student contacts, we will also reduce school bureaucracy. For children in low-income families, free half-day space in the SFO will contribute to previous language training, contributing to the reconciliation of inequalities later in life. In order for the quality of the SFO and the AKS to be equal, irrespective of where you live, a national format for the framework should be drawn up. The Prime Minister, in his speech today, stressed early work from 1st to 4th grade because it is a goal that no students should leave primary school without having learned to read, write and calculate properly. Then the students will also enjoy greater commitment to technology and coding at school. In order to capture students who are at risk of falling out of school due to the high level of theoretical knowledge, a new practical and labour-oriented craftsmanship should be introduced as an electoral profession in secondary school. When it comes to improving the ability of children and young people to take care of their own health, I am particularly pleased with the focus on better sex education in primary school. I myself contributed to the educational work for young people through the sexual education of the Medisinians when I studied at the university, and the experience I'm left with is that disseminating knowledge about body, diseases, new feelings and shame is important prevention work. In these metoo times, it is also important that children learn early about the body and about their own and others' boundaries in a safe environment. Norway needs new knowledge to address new challenges — be it in the climate, health, school, public or private sectors. Knowledge is the basis for future value creation and well-being, and therefore there is good reason to increase public research efforts beyond 1 pst. GDP. In an open society, knowledge sharing is important, and the Jeleia platform contributes to this by providing more open research dissemination. When the Government Platform aims to strengthen and stimulate several world-leading research environments, it will also strengthen national research environments. In addition, as part of the development of the knowledge society, the number of higher education institutions and universities shall be increased. I want to end something like this: the blue-green government has ambitions on behalf of all children, regardless of background and social affiliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4883	The government will secure a viable welfare society, but they are not honest about what kind of society this should be. The political platform reveals this: Berekrafta should as well be secured by creating a private market of public services. It is the same dark blue policy that has been operating for four years. The left has not changed this, and it was not unexpected. We've got a new blue-blue government that doesn't see the difference between producing welfare services and producing other goods and services, which doesn't distinguish between the production of health services and the production of screws and nails, which will have competition as an important element in getting better services and efficient public service production, which determines that private providers will compete to deliver publicly funded services on the same terms. For four years we have seen the impact of this policy. We have strong pressure on public hospitals, where bed capacities are being built up. We have a non-profit sector that loses competition against commercial providers, where the purchase and sale of child protection services is superior to what is best for the child, who threatens competition and the putting on the market even outsources the need for national control of basic ICT infrastructure and the safe storage of sensitive patient data, where so-called effective competition in patient transport means that patients no longer rely more on transport home than on treatment itself. We've once again got a government that put prices on everything, but doesn't see the value of anything. The platform states that hospital cows should be reduced by extending the privatisation reform of free treatment options and by increasing the use of private and foreign service providers. Public hospitals are not mentioned by one word. Publicly funded health services are the domain used, publicly funded health services to be provided by private individuals. The government platform states that the government will further develop input-driven funding and that in the context of it they consider increasing this funding. Today, the input-driven funding is 50 pst. The best thing about this government is she doesn't have multiples. The first defeat is already a fact. The opposition has gathered on another policy direction for hospital policy. Yesterday the Health Committee set out to instruct the government to reduce effort-driven financing from 2019 onwards, not to increase it, as stated in the Government Platform. It was a principleally important decision to reduce the market correction in our healthcare system. I believe that the health policy in Norway will be guided by the Stortinget over the next four years, and the Center Party is ready to pursue health policy in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4902	I'm happy to live in one of the world's most equal countries, a country where it's natural that women and men take responsibility both at home and at work, a country where women and men in theory should have equal rights and equal opportunities. I'm saying "in theory," because the last time has shown us that, unfortunately, that is very often not the case. Many say that Metoo has been an eye opener to them, while others welcome to the reality of women, we have known this and talked about for a long time. Whether the metoo has opened our eyes or just made something we already knew, but not talked loud enough about, it's now time to talk about the way forward. What do we do to make real change? For the Christian People's Party, the understanding of equality between men and women is based on our human vision: every human being has an inviolable value and must be respected for its integrity and individuality, regardless of gender, age or level of function. Gender discrimination and harassment are so serious because it breaks down the integrity and dignity of others as human beings. When we bring ourselves to justice to our next, we make ourselves master over another human being, and none of us have the right to do that. As politicians and elected representatives, we have a responsibility to make it safe to warn about such behaviour, and we have a responsibility to facilitate better prevention and awareness of the problem. Now we have two issues for consideration in the family and cultural committee, where a number of measures are being promoted, and I hope that the government will follow up. One of the premises of the metoo campaign is that sexual harassment is so widespread that the majority of women, i.e. The majority of our female colleagues, our sisters, our daughters, have been exposed to it, and none of us can point to the workplace there or the other political party anymore. We all as one take responsibility and start with ourselves. As Christian People's Party spokesman for equality, I would like to stress that we value the fact that the government is clear in its platform that they will actively contribute to the work against sexual harassment. That work begins in our own ranks. Secondly, we must use the political tools at our disposal to ensure that women and men's equivalency become a practical reality throughout our society. The government says in its platform that they want a zero vision for marine litter. It's very good, and it fully supports the Christian People's Party, because the plastic is a threat to life in the sea. But we also want to challenge the government – and the Stortinge – to have a zero vision against sexual harassment, because it poses a threat to the equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4919	I have also registered formulations on the defence and security policy in the government statement that have an important debate today. It's very good, but it's a little important that we take care of the premise for the debate, that we're agreed on what we're talking about. I record that the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee suggests that I or my predecessors have attempted to misinform the Storting. It's completely wrong. The letter from the Labour Party dated 2016 to which it was referred was a question of the share of the gross domestic product in the defence budget in 2020. The projections made at that time were based on the projections for gross domestic product made by the Statistical Central Bureau at that time. It was black that it would be in the range of 1.58 pst. and 1.71 pst. So they said that no matter which one of the forecasts was chosen, the GDP share would increase. It was the predictions that existed then. This type of forecast is made every three months by the Central Statistical Office. When I got a similar question last week, I used today's forecast as a background – the forecast that the Statistical Central Bureau is now making. It shows a lower proportion. We do not report errors, but we relate to the forecasts available on the day we get questions. I can exemplify how complicated it can be to lean on such a figure: when former Minister of Defence Ine M. Eriksen Soreide replied in 2016, the increase in the defence budget in 2020 would be 7.2 billion. kr. So we negotiated in the Storting and increased that amount, so the growth in today's numbers would be almost 8 billion. kr. Nevertheless, the share of gross domestic product in 2020 is lower than the forecasts currently available. What's going to be right when we're going to discuss defence policy and the government statement is that we're dealing with what it says. We've said we're going to move towards the 2 percent, to which we've committed ourselves. We also say something else important: Defence policy should be developed by looking at the adopted long-term plan and the adopted land-use proposition in the context. In this way, we build capacities, so that we become a good partner for NATO, carry out the missions we're going to do, become a reliable ally and complement the space we're going to complement in a NATO community, for peace and security in the alliance, in our neighbourhoods, in Europe and in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4930	In a modern society, people have to be made different. The goal of the Right-wing-Fremskrittsparte – Left-Government is that people should live a free and independent life, because we believe that individuals who are given trust also take responsibility. The government will give individuals the opportunity to govern their own lives. I feel that this is the fundamental difference between the government parties and the opposition parties in Stortinget. Everything starts in kindergarten. We have full babysitting in Norway. We have high-quality kindergartens, highly competent kindergarten teachers and employees who help children get good experiences, explore and guide in play and learning. The government strengthens the kindergarten sector by introducing quality reforms, language training, increasing the requirement for pedagogical density and strengthening cooperation between school and SFO in order to give children a better start to school. There are several important points about the kindergarten sector that are not given so much attention, simply because the Progress Party, the Right and the Left agree on them – the belief in private welfare providers. Today, the results of the largest parental survey in Norwegian kindergartens have been presented, and the results are clear: parents are more satisfied in private kindergartens than in municipalities. Over 100,000 parents have participated in the study and the private kindergartens score the highest on absolutely all the questions. More clearly than that, it can't actually be. Private kindergartens provide a total of better quality and greater satisfaction than local authorities. Then I encourage the left side of Norwegian policy to stop the witch hunt at the private kindergartens. The last year, the left side, Red and SV in particular, has gone hard on the private kindergartens. In several municipalities, they have tried to ban them, and they have labeled the private nursery, which, after all, ensures that families today have both the freedom of choice, the diversity of offers and the real possibility of having children's gardening. Private welfare providers cover half of the country's kindergartens, and we should praise them for that effort. The government parties, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, are united to ensure good quality in the kindergartens over the next four years. We are united in ensuring the diversity of offers in the kindergarten sector and the right of parents to choose for themselves and their children. I want to take the opportunity to praise the private kindergartens for having contributed to a national effort to ensure full child care coverage. I want to commend the private kindergartens for providing good services to the children of the country, and I want to assure them that this government will continue to fight for non-discrimination between public and private actors in the future. The important thing for the Progress Party is that the quality of kindergartens is good, that parents are satisfied, that the price is equal, and that there should still be full childcare coverage. I am proud that the government has the faith that the individual will rule more of his own everyday life, and that we recognize that the private kindergartens have made an important contribution to the everyday lives of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4948	I have more experience of political work in a local government hall than I do in this room. In local politics, it occasionally happened that someone went to the pulpit and was a bit approximate in their dealings with facts and political history. However, there is nothing against what I believe I am experiencing in this room. Most attentively in today's debate, I think perhaps the post of the representative Jonas Gahr Støre, the head of the Workers' Party and the party's Prime Minister's candidate at the election was. It was an article with quite eye-catching statements. Here are just a few examples: The representative Gahr Støre pointed out that the most important thing in the future is to get more people to work, as a criticism of the lack of focus on job creation. Then I wonder if the representative has read the document at all, because about the whole statement is about that, and it is actually 50,000 new jobs in the last year. The representative Gahr Støre spoke again about increasing differences, differences that have been weakly increasing over many years, mainly due to increased immigration. And so this is addressed even if the differences went down in the last year, and we can be happy that we still live in one of the countries with the least differences. Criticism was also voiced because the government platform contains a sentence that the government recognises the right of workers to choose to be organised or not. What was not mentioned at the same time was that the introduction to this chapter shows that the government has great faith and support for tripartite cooperation. It is quite unhistorical of the Workers' Party to shoot at the Right in order to order that there should be freedom of organisation in this country. The representative Margaret Hagerup gave a good description of this in his post a short time ago, so I'm not going to repeat it here. The Government Platform has been described by several representatives of the Workers' Party as unclear and not concrete, and it is claimed that inflation has gone into everything that can be strengthened, secured, increased and investigated. A quick count of the use of similar words in the Worker Party's own application shows that the same words have been used there to an equal extent. It should therefore not surprise the Workers' Party that even a government has taken out of three parties actually wants to investigate and evaluate the devices carefully, when they themselves are not even able to be clearer in their own programme. I understand that it still has to be heavy for some representatives that there was no government change after the election – I am pleased about it – but it is still comforting that the government should be weakened or weak. In fact, the general rule in recent Norwegian political history is minority governments, and I assume that the same representatives will not claim that, for example. The governments led by Bratteli, Nordli or Brundtland were weak. The parties have different solutions to a number of challenges in our society, which we can well discuss. But it should not be necessary to be so approximate in dealing with facts and political history, nor to mistrust politicians from other parties and claim that they have a hidden agenda and do not mean what they say. I think that will strengthen the debate and confidence in politicians in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4967	The Central Party will pursue a policy for Norway as a whole. Then we have to make use of the rich resources we have across the country. One of the success stories we have had in Norway is that we have managed hydropower resources in a long-term perspective, for the benefit of Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry. Forward-looking politicians, headed by former Prime Minister of the Left, Gunnar Knudsen, provided public ownership and national control of resources. And what's happening now? At the same time as the Left enters the government, power disappears over the regulation of energy out of the country. If the government gets what it wants, the European Union will decide. It is the EU that, in the event of a conflict, will decide how to use the capacity of foreign tables. It is the EU that will determine the distribution of income and how it will be used. We also become part of the development of the EU Energy Union, the fifth freedom of the EU, with free flow of energy. The EU has a maximum 2 øre ambition per kWh in difference in electricity prices within its territory. This will lead to more expensive electricity in Norway. Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry are becoming losers – and not least Norwegian democracy. One establishes a system in which regulatory authorities in Norway are required to follow the EU, a system which prohibits intervention by Norwegian politicians. Our foremost lawyers on the Constitutional Light are crystal clear: this is a renunciation of sovereignty. The Constitution § 115, which requires the use of a three-quarters majority, must be applied in this case. Accepts The Storing to use simple majority here, one in practice has opened the locks. Then the Basic Law § 115 is empty for content. The party expects the bulk of the population to follow up its comments on the energy notification in the previous period, to join the EU Energy Agency and to use § 115, which requires the use of a three-quarters majority. It's about our common resources. It is about caring for Norwegian consumers, Norwegian industry and, not least, about taking care of Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e4980	The extended blue-blue government, which still does not have a majority in this Chamber, promises to continue with new rounds of municipal reform in its government statement. It started with the government declaration in 2013, where the goal of a strong reduction in the number of municipalities was made one of the main reforms of the government. No content or services, but the number was important. In 2014, all municipalities were required to investigate municipal mergers. Very many of these investigations concluded that there was no gain to be gained by associating with one or more neighbouring municipalities. The municipalities therefore stopped it. Of the 210 municipalities that conducted a referendum, 145 said no. This meant that the Senterpartiet did not get through to its proposal that coercive municipalities should be able to ask for a decision to be rescinded. However, we received support for two important decisions concerning municipal mergers. The decisions state that any ‘municipal mergers in the period 2017 to 2021 shall be based solely on voluntary activity’ and that ‘the municipal income system shall ensure equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform’. In the government statement yesterday, the Prime Minister said that the government will continue to make reforms in several areas, including with incentives for the community reform. It can be difficult to understand as other than through the income system. I would therefore encourage the government to understand what the Great Government has decided, and where the majority is after the election. There are several issues involved. For example, the parties Zenterpartiet, Christian People's Party, SV and the Workers' Party have put forward a common proposal that three should be a key element in the new government quarter. The four parties have a majority in Stortinget, although some government party representatives may seem to have forgotten it when we hear the submissions. It is binding on the government in the further planning work on the construction of a new government quarter. Governmental quarters in wood are important in terms of both the environment, new technology development, increased value creation and new jobs. The Government Parties have so far not flagged their positions on the proposal for government quarter for three, but they cannot hide behind the fact that solutions have already been chosen for the project. In the government statement of Jeløya, the government has not chosen to address these issues. It is said that the government will consider ‘a step-by-step and downgraded expansion of the new government quarter’. It shows that there is a broad consensus that the design of the new government quarter is not locked. The centre party has discussed – and will continue to discuss – reforms and issues with content, which are not one-sidedly based on the belief that ‘centralised’ is the same as a sustainable welfare society. The biggest is not always the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5001	It's okay to point out a couple of things. The representative Moflag was up and talking about a love guarantee, or a roommate guarantee, which might be the more normal expression. She said it so that this was an election campaign vow from the Workers' Party. Yes, then it is at least special that the Workers' Party, among other things. on the City Council of Skien, Telemark, votes against the Cohabitation Guarantee. You vote against what you say is an election vow, and say that the government is coming after, but the government has long ago said that this is something that is important, and it is now in the government platform. So there's obviously a little bit of a difference between what you're standing here saying, and what you're actually doing in the municipalities around. Then she also said that there are cuts in grants for nursing homes and homes. Then I have to remember that in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 the red-green parties managed to put off less than 5 billion. kr to build new nursing homes and homes, whereas this government only proposed in 2017 to set aside more than 5 billion. to build new nursing homes and homes. We see that the municipalities are offensive and want to expand several places because you have a government that is really betting on this and spending money on it. And then to the representative of Kjerkol, who does not believe that state funding for the care of the elderly and care services in the municipalities is a good arrangement, and Jonas Gahr Støre, who said that there was almost no one who thought this was good: then I think you should go to those who have the shoe on, and where it prints in the municipalities that are involved in the state funding of the care of the elderly. Both managers and employees working in these municipalities are very satisfied – and they must be good ambassadors for whether this works or not. They're very satisfied, and as one of the leaders of one of the test communities said, I really hope we can continue with this experiment. And as someone else said, I haven't regretted a second – not a second – after we joined this experiment. I guess that shows that it's a success. I now see several other municipalities that want to join the same project. That is why I am pleased that the government in the government platform has agreed to start in several municipalities, and I hope that this will be a reality. So a little explanation: Proposal No. 3 is a proposal we're going to support. It's a proposal that the government, as I see it, and also the government parties, are busy watching and already looking at. That's why it's really going to open doors, but we're voting for the proposal now, and then we're going to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5014	I know, after my time at Stortinget, that when you get so late in the debate, you don't have to provoke it to extend, but I have been patient and listened to the debate, which may not be so new either, and I record that incredibly many on the red side are concerned. And after listening to a lot of the debate, I also started to get a little worried, because what was so wrong with blue? Because it's blue-blue and deep blue and even blueer, etc. It sounded so negative. So I found out that I was going to go into Jotun's websites and look at Jotun's blue favorites, and then I took out three of these: Lin blue -- a greenish blue tone, timeless and elegant, Deco blue -- a dark blue success all over the world, Lady 5180 Oslo -- a greenish blue color that in recent years has speed like a wind all over the country. And then I wasn't worried anymore. Jotun also says, ‘Blade is a color that many people have seen, and we understand that!’ I fully agree. ‘Blade is undoubtedly a color that is highly loved,’ says Jotun – and I fully agree. [[Laughter]] Then I record that as usual in such debates comes the red side, with the Workers' Party at the head, and says that there is nothing in this government statement. It's so disgusting, it's just words. You spend a third of your speaking time on that. And then you go to the last two thirds of the number, and then you get very detailed. Martin Kolberg was the clearest on that. Then it's so miserable – all the way down to the smallest detail. I have to say that fortunately we have come to you that the Workers' Party's description of reality, or description of misery, no longer holds water. Communication has become much wider, so people out there are going through this – for people and businesses out there know it; they see it going better and better day by day. Then I have to be allowed to say in the end that during this long debate it is rather disappointing not to hear more emphasis on what we will live on in the future, the fisheries and aquaculture industries, which will ensure that all this well-being that everyone has been talking about today is financed. It is forgotten in this debate. Fortunately, since the accession of this government, we have made new records regarding the export value of both aquaculture and fisheries. And to the representative Iversen from Loppa: I went in and looked at what's happening in Loppa, and there's significant positive developments there now, especially in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5023	It is a long evening, but I need to comment on three of the issues that have been raised in the debate. First, I want to start with a correction: I said in my reply to Jonas Gahr Støre that the Public Health Institute's investigation was ordered by the government. It's not the one we ordered, we have another project, but it's the exact same theme, so the rest of the answer is true. But some themes have been up here, and some have also been answered earlier by Right-Representatives: Yes, a government platform contains slightly less vague formulations than what a budget does. In a budget one is more concrete. But some very good people have spoken and compared the Workers' Party's program with our government platform. So we have in this platform approx. 670 references of ‘assessors’, ‘strength’, ‘safe’, ‘explored’, ‘correct’. So if it compares to the Labour Party program, it's 695 of that. For all those who have thought it was so vague and unclear what stood here, it is well on the level of what the Workers' Party went to election for when it comes to this. The other thing I think is important to point out is that there's still a part going up here and saying that the inequalities are increasing under this government. There may, of course, be some instruments and some areas, but I'm actually concerned that inequality should not increase in our society. The last year's debate was heated, based on the fact that the SSB then showed a jump in the Gini coefficient. When we challenged, among other things, They said that the Gini coefficient is the goal they have. But then we said what the SSB scientist also said, and then they thought it could be a one-time development. The Gini coefficient for 2016 fell again. That means that the Gini coefficient under this government has not increased. The international fixed measure of inequality means that the inequality hasn't increased during this government, and you might want to take it with a broad brush to establish something for which it's not a scientific or professional basis. To Martin Kolberg's posts: I can only cancel the whole belief that we are now going to privatize the public sector or hospitals. We believe in publicly funded and driven hospitals. We think it's going to be the most important part of it, but we think that in the edge zone around the development of the health industry in Norway we also need to have a cooperation between public and private to get it to – and I actually thought that was something of the ambition. I have attended so many conferences, including: Jonas Gahr Støre, where he has stood and talked about building health nutrition as a big growth industry for Norway. Yeah, then you have to have a market here at home. If you don't have a market, you don't get to, yes, it won't be a business. Then it might be good patient services, but it won't be an industry. And you have to take that with you. So don't suspect the motives of others. Look at what we're doing: we're getting the queues down, we're treating more people, and health services are developing positively under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5039	It has been interesting to follow this debate, even though it has been a long time. The debate has also – in addition to the fact that there has been a great deal of focus on the colour of the government, whether it is blue-blue-blue or blue-blue-green – shown that there is a distinction in Norwegian policy. We have the opposition parties on the one hand, which have a clockwise belief in public solutions, that one alone must produce results. And then the government parties believe in the interaction between public and private. We think it's right and important, even in our welfare, to use the resources and capabilities we have in the private market. The public is responsible, but there are thus private actors who can help deliver the welfare services we need today and which we will certainly also need in the future. There's reason to remind you of the nursery arrangement. It has been mentioned earlier in the debate. The nursery arrangement was intended to contribute to full child care coverage, and what happened? Well, a prerequisite for achieving that goal was for non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens. Equal funding and equal treatment were to be provided for both public and private. It was the Workers' Party and the SV at that time. Now they don't agree. The results presented today, from the 2017 parental survey, show that parents are consistently satisfied – and perhaps best satisfied – with the offer provided by the private kindergartens. Then it is not the case that there are public instruments to contribute to new jobs and new investments in business; these are good framework conditions. And a good tax regime is actually a very important prerequisite for getting new jobs in the future as well. That is why tax reform was so important in its time. It was the Workers' Party on, they were reducing the wealth tax on working capital. The government wants to continue, because it is actually quite important to ensure that Norwegian companies and Norwegian business owners have competitive conditions and can invest in new jobs, so that we guarantee the basis for our well-being. So there are some differences, fortunately. The government parties have faith in the private sector, we have faith in entrepreneurship, and we believe that there are some serious actors out there that can help us achieve the goals we have for the development of prosperity in Norway, and that not the goals are achieved solely through the discussion and decisions taken here, but through a number of decisions taken in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5050	I think it was the representative Tage Pettersen who said I couldn't know the difference between majority and minority government. But I know that, you know, because I've tried both versions, sitting in both parts, so I know that very well. It's to the extent that advantages and disadvantages of both editions, both majority and minority, but what's important, whether it's majority government or minority government, is that one doesn't allow a conscious double communication from the government, that one doesn't allow one or more parties in the government to always be allowed to do one thing in government and then make it the exact opposite of the Storting. It's an advanced double communication, and I've tried to point that out in the debate today. One must also expect, whether it is one type or another of government, that a single government is rigged enough to take responsibility for the compromise reached, whether they are entered into in a budgetary settlement or in a government statement. There has been a fairly general debate in a way, with many general points, and I often think when I hear such debates, that some of the speeches become so general that I think almost the whole hall can agree with what is being said. But it's also pretty daunting many times. And then I'm a little surprised when the Prime Minister says at the end that we must not say that the government platform is too general, but at the same time she tells Martin Kolberg that we must not become too concrete either, because then we interpret the government on a basis that is not allowed to do. It can't be like that either. We must be allowed to take seriously what it says. Therefore, the Centre Party takes seriously what it says about the ownership of agriculture, and we believe that if it is realised, it will mean a completely different and much more vulnerable agriculture in Norway. Therefore, we take it seriously when it is said that a level playing field between the public and private sectors should be ensured, and we believe that it points towards the Hjelmeng Committee and against the possibility of using the EEA Agreement as a break-up bar to weaken public offers. That's why we also say that. It is possible that it becomes too concrete, it is possible that we then interpret too much, but the risk is that if we become too general, we are also accused of being too general, so we take it seriously. It is not that using public procurement legislation – we can do that to increase the environment and quality – in a way is the same as equalising the public and private sectors competitively. There is something quite different and far more in such a context. Then I should also say a little bit about the teachers, because the question of teacher shortage is a topic that deserves a lot of attention. I don't know about the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, when they say that there are so many teachers who need qualifications to be competent, then believe that the 30,000 people who don't have that training today are not competent, if they count them among the non-qualified teachers. That would be very interesting in case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5063	We have had a debate for many hours now that the government parties and representatives from them and the position parties here in Stortinget have complained about criticism from the opposition. But if the government parties had hoped that they would not meet a tough opposition today, I must unfortunately disappoint them. From the left, we in SV have been challenged about whether we are in favour of a humane refugee policy and whether we want to achieve a better climate policy. So it's a challenge from a party that has chosen to join the government with the Progress Party. We have heard a lot about child poverty, but we still hear measures that are not going to level out differences that are absolutely essential if we are to reduce child poverty, when fewer young people grow up in poverty in Norway. We still hear that the government parties want more needs testing, and free core time is being created in the kindergarten, which in Oslo and elsewhere has proved to be a full failure. Three out of ten people who are entitled to free core time in kindergarten do not use it. You don't have the right to meet them. Universal arrangements are needed. So we hear from the Prime Minister that inequalities do not grow when there is a basic consensus from all the researchers that inequalities are growing in Norway. And you can do that in different ways. You can look at the Gini coefficient, but you can also look at the distribution of income and the distribution of wealth. There we see that the wealthiest have a greater share of income and wealth; we see that the gap between those who earn the most and the least has increased, and the differences have increased in the last three to four years. Then I also record that the Prime Minister believes that inequalities should not grow, but it is therefore not an objective to reduce inequalities – from which the richest now withdraw. It's a goal for SV. With regard to climate, we have also received from the newly appointed Council of State responsible for the environment and climate an outline of decisions already taken by the Stortinget. I couldn't hear any new initiatives in that area, but we've got a backbone of the climate agreement's objectives. In foreign policy, there is little solidarity in Norway, and the Minister for Fisheries has obviously suffered so many political defeats recently that he had to use two of his three minutes to describe the color blue. Both in the autumn and today, SV has had an impact on many of our proposals and new policies. We've got a majority for a fairer care scheme, we're going to investigate the consequences for Norway of a nuclear ban, the cash flows in companies that provide welfare services are to be examined, and that's what I could do. I look forward to inviting this majority to continue to ensure a fairer and more environmentally friendly policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5076	I want to use the opportunity to thank you for the debate. Not least, the Left and I are pleased that more people are involved in both the formulations and the objectives of the Jeleia declaration. It promises good for the cooperation in Stortinget. If we have common goals, it is also easier to get along the road there. Many people are concerned about the government's color. The linguistic new blue-blue construction is named. Ironically, it's the working party that won't use the green label on the government after the environmental party Left has entered. Even partisan Gahr didn't need to name an environment or climate with one word in his ten-minute main post, but deliberately chose to use speaking time on a rather poor attempt at populistic, approximate coloring. I can roa Gahr Støre and others who are linguistically confused, that the Left has washed a government that was already monthly green after four years of cooperation with the Left. The blue-green government has to meet Norway's climate commitments. We will take our share of the responsibility we have to solve the climate challenge, and not least lead a policy that helps Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs to become winners in the green shift. I wonder that a choice is not to see all the concrete measures in the statement. The elimination of fur animal nutrition is reasonable, the protection of the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja alike. I can continue with drug reform, third-party parental leave, continuation of the electric car benefits, free half-day parking in the SFO for children in families with low income, VAT exemptions for e-books, the introduction of dual citizenship, etc. Can it become more concrete? When an attack on the left of the working life policy, an old quote about LO must be taken out of context. Inclusion is one of the main efforts of the government – making it easier to get a job for everyone, both organised and unorganised. To have solidarity with those outside the labour market and those who have chosen not to be organised is not a brutalization or attack on trade, but a care for those who do not have a strong voice. Better grounds for better organisation than ensuring that more people enter the labour market are hard to find. Finally, I announce that the Left will vote for proposal No. 3, relating to new forms of financing for housing for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5091	By State Councillor Sandberg I have been inspired to check closer to Jotun – a great company, otherwise, it is private. There's the definition of the color red, a clear yellowish red tone, and then it says: appropriate color to the base wall. It can inspire. I think it has been a good debate. From the government there have been allegations that the opposition has spent the most time criticising the government. It is therefore a debate on the government's declaration of accession. I haven't spent time talking about it being nice that it's expanded paperwork. There's a lot in the environment, to the representative Breivik, who's good; we don't spend so much time on it. That's the direction we're looking at here. There are some areas where you could say that and you would, and then the question comes: do we? If we want an organised working life with tripartite cooperation, there must be representative parties. When we see the parties weakening, and even the leader of the NHO says that it is alarming that the level of organisation falls, it is interesting that the Prime Minister calls a high level of organisation a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, there are measures here that are drawing in the opposite direction. Then it's our job to tell you about it. Another policy would focus more on that. Work is being created in a Norway where economic activity is turning around. That's good, but the proportion of us who work has fallen, and is the biggest threat to what we're going to try to get. Then it's our job to say that the universal key tax cut does not produce results. It is a policy that has come too late, and it is not made clear what it means. State Council Sanner said today that the time has now come to combat alienation. It should have come earlier. Because it keeps growing, people fall out of work. Men at their best age — a group between 25 and 30 years of age — are included in the labour force. Councillor Hauglie said there's now time for competence reform. It's too late, too. And how it's going to happen, we'll hear a little about it. Yes, we're going to have private participation in the Norwegian economy. There are some strange claims about the Labour Party's policy on this, which just have to be rejected. And yes, it can happen in the edge zone of the health care system, but when the carrying sentence on page 30 of the Yeluia Declaration, I've read it, says that you have to equate private and public providers to solve welfare problems, there's something more. In that case, it is not possible to obtain an active health industry that can deliver to the Norwegian health care system and at the same time deliver internationally. There's something else. This is direction selection, and therefore this hall is exciting. The Christian People's Party has now marked itself as an independent opposition party in the centre. We have several decisions today that are moving in a different direction, and we are going to challenge this policy, which is not about private individuals in the peripheral zone, but about commercialisation and privatisation in areas that provide worse services and increased disparities. The Labour Party is behind and supports the five proposals that are in the Chamber today. They're also expressions of a new direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5111	What I'm happy about is that it's so far held 148 main posts and certainly a hundred lines. It shows that this hall is mature to discuss politics, and it's a good thing these days. There has been a long debate. There has been a wide-ranging debate, but it is a little special when the head of the Workers' Party and parliamentary leader Jonas Gahr Støre have to go up here and make sure that the Workers' Party is still for private business. There is reason to believe that a party that has been involved in the Nordic welfare model, which is a mix of private and public businesses, now needs to go up and establish that it is actually for the private sector. So when we built up kindergarten capacity in Norway through a kindergarten settlement that many people here have the credit for – I'm not going to say that the Right was involved, but we were at least involved in following it up – it was because the private could help, that we got it done. Now we see in many municipalities that socialist parties are trying as hard as they can to put stumbling blocks in the way of those who helped build up the kindergarten sector, which is now getting topscores among parents, and which is a long-term offer that we still have to take care of. The government has presented six main challenges in this government statement, and I feel that most people are behind them. Some say it's too late, and some say it's too small, and some say it's a little wrong direction, but the main steps that the government adds up to are agreed. The representative, Arnstad, has been engaged in – I kept saying – research on parliamentaryism and has developed new models of how this government operates. Well, now there's one day where the new, enlarged government is going to debate in the hall. We have five proposals on the table. I can then reassure everyone that the Right will also support proposal No. 3 and vote against the four others. This means that the new government has so far full score – we agree on everything so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5124	The government platform is as much a privatisation platform as a platform for a new government. So the right here is taking time to talk about what's going on in cities like Oslo, Trondheim, Tromsø and other cities. What happens is this: for more than ten years, the commercial corporations have displaced the ideal actors. So large groups of billions in their backs have gone into the nursery market and have benefited greatly from tax and parental payments, and there has been a clear decrease in the proportion of private non-profit kindergartens in the same period and a growth in the private commercial. Then we've made sure that it's still possible to run private ideal non-profit institutions in Norway by putting down the feet of the commercial groups and then clearing up the spaces of diversity that the private ideals represent, as the bourgeois, that is, at least the Left, the Progress Party and the Right, have not cared much about the last ten years. Those who talk about ideological skyscrapers should look at what these parties adopted in Oslo, with a ban on any new municipal kindergarten. We got that lifted when we won the election two years ago. Now it's free for new municipal and new private ideal kindergartens, but the profit-bearing gardens stop, because we want the tax money to go to the best of the children and not to go to the Cayman Islands or to the owners of Norlandia or similar commercial groups. Yesterday was the so-called Cox Day. It was the day of the year in which the top executives earned what people most make in a whole year. This year it took the top managers 21 working days to earn an entire, usual annual salary. The richest percentage in Norway owns one-fifth of the wealth, the highest, richest person owns 10 pst. of all assets. At the same time, we saw that over 100 000 children grew up in poverty and paid the lowest 10 pst. has not achieved real wage growth in the last ten years. This is not a society of small differences, to be preserved, it is a society that calls for change and a policy that can reduce differences, and not increase them, as we see with the citizen's targeted tax cuts for the rich and attacks on common welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5135	There has been a debate, as we have seen from our point of view, which has shown that there is consensus in a number of key areas of Norwegian policy: the green shift with binding climate targets, the need for new jobs and the need for a school effort, which will also mean filling many new teachers in line with the teaching norm that the Stortinget has now agreed to, which will provide many more students with access to the school's most important resource, which is the teacher. For the Christian People's Party, this is about choosing solutions that promote human dignity and are offensive in the fight against inequalities in a society that is still to be rooted in our Christian and humanist cultural heritage. Then we are pleased that today we seem to have a majority in order to stop the expansion of the Sunday trade, and majority in favour of action against the reduction of one of the biggest problems we have in our society, namely the relation to alcohol. The Christian People's Party will choose a constructive role in opposition, located in the centre of Norwegian politics. That means that we want good, constructive cooperation solutions with all parties where we can get through our policies, sometimes with the government and sometimes with the other opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5142	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5154	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5163	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 3, by Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 5, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party The President will draw attention to the fact that, during the debate, proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, changed. There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Storting to bring the matter forward with proposals which help to increase the degree of organisation, as recognition of the importance of the choice of professional organisation of many workers.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5200	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as amended: ‘The government is asking the government to propose measures to achieve the policy objectives of reducing alcohol consumption.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5217	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that municipalities, irrespective of the size of the municipality, be given the opportunity to settle refugees and that the minimum number of residents be removed when the municipality can show good results and plans for integration into society’.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5234	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present a case on how new forms of financing for housing for the elderly can contribute to reducing the need for nursing homes and other forms of health care.’ The right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5249	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked not to liberalise the rules on Sunday trade. This so that no more may work on public holidays.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5267	The President will propose that a statement by the Government held at the Storting meeting on 30 January 2018 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-31.ana.ud428e5283	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
