ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e53	There is an application from the Left-wing Group for the extension of the mandate of the alternate representative of Oslo, Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo to take effect from 30 January to 13 May. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e65	On behalf of the representatives of Olaug V. Bollestad, Ingvild Kjerkol, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I am delighted to present representative proposals for a better measurement system for quality of life, health and good life in Norway based on the need for comprehensive information, in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, Eurostat and the OECD.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e70	The representative of Mr Lene Vågslid will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e75	On behalf of Maria-Karine Aasen- Svensrud, Jan Bøhler and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a new report on the fire and rescue services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e80	The representative of Mr Ingvild Kjerkol will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e85	On behalf of the representatives of Tore Hagebakken, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland and myself, I would like to propose a representative to avoid a mix of roles in healthcare. Then, on behalf of the representatives of Anette Trettebergstien, Martin Henriksen, Tore Hagebakken, Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland, Siv Henriette Jacobsen and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to combat loneliness. Finally, I would like to propose a representative proposal on behalf of Tore Hagebakken, Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland, Siv Henriette Jacobsen and myself to ensure the good treatment of elderly, multi-sick patients through the strengthening of geriatric competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e94	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e99	On behalf of the representatives of Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Torhild Bransdal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure the free exercise of religion for the recipients of health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e105	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e110	On behalf of the representatives of Gina Barstad, Freddy André Øvstegård, Petter Eide, Karin Andersen, Solfrid Lerbreckk and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a full review of unpriority cheese needs in the welfare and public sector, by the government referred to as red tape and efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e115	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e133	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e142	Today, the size should handle an SV proposal that Norway has to figure out the possibility to sign the nuclear ban. The background to the submission is an agreement on the prohibition of nuclear weapons which was adopted by the UN on 7 July 2017 with 122 voices. The proposers point out that the Storting has previously agreed that Norway should work actively for a world free of nuclear weapons. A single committee points out that at the end of last year the Treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons was signed by 53 countries and ratified by 3 countries. There is a great public commitment to the work of disarmament and a ban on nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons lead to great destruction and constitute a tangle against life on earth. A broad majority in the Committee, members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Left and the Christian People's Party, have gathered behind a joint proposal, which is also the recommendation of the Committee. I find it most correct to refer to the wording in the presented context: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an investigation into the consequences of the recently adopted Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons for Norway. The investigation shall analyse the content of the Treaty and the implications for Norway of any Norwegian accession. The investigation shall contain a concrete assessment of the content of the Treaty against existing Norwegian defence plans and other relevant conventions such as the non-proliferation agreement, the relationship between the agreement and the legal and political framework conditions resulting from the accession of Norway to the NATO, and together provide an assessment of possible Norwegian accession to the Treaty. The investigation shall also assess how Norway can support the objectives of the Agreement. The investigation should seek the views of relevant expert communities, researchers and civil society organisations. The investigation will also look at the investigations currently carried out on the same issues in other countries, including Sweden and Italy, and assess the possible transfer value to Norway. The investigation shall be submitted to the Stortinget during 2018.’ The Right Party and the Progress Party are not behind it and will do their own good for their positions and assessments. A discussion theme in the Committee has been whether it would be contrary to our NATO membership to agree to the agreement. The majority emphasises that this is a question to be answered by the proposed issue. The majority of my government has a too passive role in disarmament issues. In the Government Declaration: ‘The Government wants Norway to be a driver of international agreements, international legal order [[...]] This is not the state of government's work on this topic per date. As the spokesperson of the Centre Party in the Committee, I shall finally do my best for my party's assessments. We have programmed that Norway should work for an international binding agreement that prohibits nuclear weapons. We also thought that the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the International Campaign for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons was a very bright and wise foundation on the part of the Nobel Committee. For several decades I have followed work on various disarmament agreements. In June 1995, the Stortinget presented a proposal by the late British representatives Anne Enger and Marit Arnstad on the ban on anti-personnel mines. Even if the work had a long birth both in the United Nations and here in our own big business, everyone today is agreed on and pleased with the result. The same would have worked for the ban on the class weapons a few years later, but it would have led over time to positive results. We, as elected representatives, have a self-reliance to address both big and small questions in our day. In the mid-1980s, I was visiting the town of Albuquerque in the south of the United States, on the border with Mexico. In this city is the National Atomic Museum. Nuclear history is presented: power, energy, radiation and weapons. The museum is in many ways a tribute to knowledge, science and technology. But those who walk around looking at a B-52 bomber and hoard of Fat Man and Little Boy from the other world war are most impressed by quiet reflection. Someone has to be with and set dimensions and point direction. I am sure that the majority's active approach to banning nuclear weapons is wise and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e172	The view of the Labour Party is that Norway should not at present, as the only NATO country, sign the Nuclear Prohibit Convention in its present form. Today, when the Workers’ Party forms a majority in order to ask the Government to assess the implications for Norway of the recently adopted Convention, it is because it is necessary to identify what the new Ban Convention will mean for Norway’s efforts in the field of nuclear disarmament and the objective of a nuclear-free world. NATO’s strategic concept states that the objective of the alliance is a nuclear-free world, and a unanimous increase has determined that Norway should play an active role in achieving the same goal. It would then clearly be useful to identify the implications of the new Convention on Prohibition for the International Nuclear Disarmament Work. Some have claimed that the new prohibition Convention will in practice have no effect. This vision should be highlighted and discussed. Others have again claimed that the prohibition Convention would be harmful to the non-proliferation agreement NPT. This view, too, is important to investigate. In any case, in the view of the Workers' Party, the provisions of the Prohibition Treaty and the NPT need to be brought together. The Prohibit Treaty is here, and then there must be maximum consistency with the NPT when it comes to issues such as security controls, stationing, supervisory conference and entry into force. The present text of the Convention is inflexible. Article 16 states that no reservations are accepted and that is understandable in a sense. But here we have seen an opening for states to join the Ban Convention with a reservation on, for example: only to use nuclear weapons in retaliation, not first-use. Such an approach was used by the world community when the Geneva Protocol on the Prohibition of Chemical and Biological Weapons was adopted after World War I. This is also a question the investigation must be able to elucidate. The atomic scientists' international doomsday clock was set on 25 January until 2 minutes at midnight. The last time the Judgment Day clock stood at 23.58, was in 1953. Fortunately, after the nuclear bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in the late summer of 1945, mankind has avoided the active use of nuclear weapons. The humanitarian consequences are disastrous. I believe, for my part, that the main function of the Nuclear Prohibition Convention is to contribute to the further build-up of the stigmatisation of the use of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, developments in international policies indicate that there is a need to build up during the stigmatisation of the use of nuclear weapons. In practice, Norway has its own national nuclear ban, and we have had it for over 60 years. It is 60 years since the Prime Minister of the Labour Party Einar Gerhardsen stated at a NATO summit in Paris: 'No nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e189	After hearing the first two speakers, I have to say that they reflected very little on the status of a Commission in which those participating in the Commission agree not to use nuclear weapons, will have as legal rule in the international community. That's what's the point here. You do not get a rule of law that can be enforced internationally by running a campaign against nuclear weapons, which means that the countries and states that have nuclear weapons do not get involved in it. It's an objection that has considerable weight. There is no participation in the development of a rule of law for the international community by joining this Convention, and in practice it is not achieved as long as the nuclear powers are not included. The second argument against the proposal, as it stands here today, is more practical: you are asking for an investigation that you really know the answer to. The North Atlantic Council stated on 20 September last year, as did the nuclear powers of the United States, the United Kingdom and France of NATO, in July 2017, that the Treaty of Prohibition is both contrary to the obligations of the Alliance and contrary to the existing disarmament work. The initiative behind what is believed to be the UN Prohibited Treaty is largely driven by a campaign without political responsibility, nor does it have the prerequisites for taking the necessary security policy considerations and balances in this initiative, as state actors must do. In the context of a draft representative on the same subject, the Government stated that Norway cannot join the Treaty of Prohibition without conflicting with its NATO membership and that it is therefore not relevant for the government to bring a case before the United Kingdom on the Norwegian ratification of the UN Treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons. In the Annex to the case, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has presented Norway’s wide-ranging nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation policy. It is impossible to consider nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation isolated from nuclear safety work, and the proposal for a representative should be viewed against the government's disarmament and non-proliferation policies to which the Storting has agreed. Thus, it is not possible to present the government’s more active path towards the formation of international law against nuclear weapons as passive or uninterested. Full implementation of non-proliferation obligations is central to the government’s work. In addition to international leadership for the verification of nuclear disarmament, Norway is a driving force for halting the manufacture of fissile material for weapons purposes and for building up existing stocks of such material. The Government is actively involved in the enforcement of the probation agreement, and it concludes on initiatives to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in security policy. Although all countries with nuclear weapons were to give up these, the technology still exists that allows the development of nuclear weapons. A ban on nuclear weapons will in itself not guarantee that new nuclear weapons can be produced and used, in particular by States and groups that do not respect the international legal order and have no desire to contribute to international peace and stability. Traditional nuclear powers have experience in the handling of nuclear weapons, and the greatest nuclear risks are associated with the acquisition of these weapons by new states and terrorist groups. Work must be done primarily to avoid proliferation of nuclear weapons and to restore existing stocks within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement. Although the proposal is purely linguistic in demand of an investigation, there is a need to emphasise that the inclusion of this proposal could create uncertainty as to whether Norway is starting a single operation within NATO through what leads to a signing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e210	NATO’s nuclear deterrence policy clarifies that nuclear weapons are a fundamental element of NATO’s overall defence concept. This goes parallel to conventional weapons and anti-missile systems. The 2010 strategic concept of NATO, to which Norway has of course joined, states that the highest guarantee of the security of the Member States is due to the strategic nuclear weapons of the alliance, in particular the contribution of the United States. France and the United Kingdom’s strategic nuclear weapons have an independent deterrent role, also with the aim of contributing to the security of Member States. So Norway has a lot to thank the United Kingdom, France and the United States for. The UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, Article 1a, under ‘ban’, states: All countries signing this Treaty shall under no circumstances develop, test, produce or otherwise acquire, own or store nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosives. Furthermore, six additional paragraphs reinforce this message. The logic is that there is concern about the disastrous consequences of the use of nuclear weapons for humanity, which then reinforces the need to eliminate such weapons altogether. In other words, nuclear disarmament with objectives of a world free from nuclear weapons is the goal. It is not possible to reconcile these articles with NATO's strategic concept. A stronger contrast ratio does not exist. NATO's strategic concept claims that the certainty that nuclear weapons exist means deterrence, to ensure peace. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons claims that the certainty that nuclear weapons exist means the opposite, namely that the risk of nuclear war is increasing. Both conclusions cannot be correct at the same time. Both actors aim to avoid nuclear war. NATO's goal is even more ambitious; the alliance wants to prevent any war between nations, including the conventional ones. The certainty that nuclear weapons exist will contribute to this. A world of nuclear weapons makes conventional wars less apocalyptic and will be less able to be used to impose one party's will on the other. In other words, understanding is diametrically different. Let's say that the technology required to produce nuclear weapons exists. It will never be possible to erase this knowledge. Today there are nine countries that have such weapons, we have to deal with them. Our goal must be to prevent such weapons from spreading to other countries, while at the same time working to minimise the chances of such weapons being used. Many would argue that it was just deterrence with nuclear weapons that made the cold war not warm. Others will claim that the certainty that both India and Pakistan possess nuclear weapons makes a large-scale war between these countries impossible. This will be a war where both countries will lose. Realizing that nuclear weapons are a crucial evil does not mean that one should not work against the spread of such weapons and work in parallel to ensure that nuclear weapons are only used to ensure the existence of countries. The government has as its policy to contribute to this. The Government Platform states that the Government will: ‘Cooperation with allies to intensify efforts for active, balanced, irreversible, reciprocal and verifiable disarmament of nuclear weapons within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement. Further develop Norway’s international leadership role in the verification of nuclear disarmament to help real disarmament take place and increase confidence in disarmament agreements.’ An investigation into whether Norway can sign the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is a poor desire to play on all horses at the same time. It will be an impossibility and at the same time will help to draw our alliance loyalty into doubt. It is not possible to adopt a ban on anything you do not like. So my advice to the Workers' Party would be not to support the proposal for an investigation. There's nothing to figure out, we have all the answers, it's really just populism put in the system. We don't need a majority in the Biggest to question our alliance policy. My advice – again – to the Workers' Party: Turn around this case, keep loyal to NATO, as you have always done, and don't find any splinter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e240	Unlike the two previous speakers, I think this is a great and historic day. Last year the fight against nuclear weapons got a new spring. On 7 July 2017, two thirds of the world’s countries joined forces and signed a ban on nuclear weapons. Once 50 countries have ratified the agreement, this ban will become international law. It's high time. For many years, nuclear weapons have been the only weapons of mass destruction in the world that are not explicitly prohibited – despite the fact that they are the most harmful weapons in the world. Today there are about 15,000 nuclear weapons. Research shows that if only a few hundred of these had been used, it would kill millions of people, and that would lead 2 billion people into starvation. A full-scale nuclear war could mean the end of human civilization, as we know it today. We are talking about a formidable threat to humanity, not a necessary evil, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde referred to it as. As long as nuclear weapons are available, we all live under the risk of it happening – there may be war – and also under the risk of accidents. In the last few days, we've seen that the major acts blame each other for the upgrading we're now seeing, and they get the support of their allies. Donald Trump launched his new nuclear strategy last week, which means that the United States is to develop smaller, more precision-based nuclear weapons. According to a number of experts, this will lower the threshold for using nuclear weapons. At the same time, Russia is arming its nuclear weapons, and North Korea is sending out new and better rockets. Several have mentioned the non-proliferation agreement and other disarmament measures we have. The problem is that they don't work. On the contrary, we see that the nuclear states are rusting up in an increasingly tense international situation. Of course, it's an opportunity that we just cross our fingers and hope the great powers find out on their own. But with Putin, Trump and Kim Jung-un as leaders of the nuclear powers, it's not the solution I have particularly strong faith in. A far better option is for the world community to join forces and put pressure on the nuclear powers to come to the negotiating table and commit to refurbishment and not to refurbish. It's precisely this that is the potential of the nuclear ban. The ban states that nuclear weapons are as illegitimate as chemical and biological weapons. As the representative Ness was in the room, the ban has worked before. Class weapons and landmines have been reduced by similar bans. The states that had these weapons were natural enough against the ban at the beginning, and then the same countries were subjected to a pressure from the world community, and then they joined the convention and started working to remove the weapons. It has been successful before, and it can succeed again, but Norway must take a leading role in the work of a nuclear ban and not boycott it and not sign it. We can't expect to get rid of nuclear weapons if we can't even agree that it's illegal to use it. No one claims that a ban will remove nuclear weapons overnight. The point is that it can be used as a starting point for pushing the nuclear weapons to rust down. The ban is the most promising disarmament initiative since it's called the war. It is not the end of a process. It's the beginning of a process. An overwhelming majority of the United Nations Member States have voted in favour of the Treaty, and Norway must stand on the right side of history. Nor is it the case, as it is said here, that the ban is contrary to Norwegian NATO membership. There are no legal barriers to joining. It's about political will. The representative Tybring-Gjedde was in the strategic concept of NATO. It also says that NATO will help create the conditions that are needed to secure a world without nuclear weapons. NATO itself has no nuclear weapons. Some of NATO's member countries have nuclear weapons. It is fully possible for Norway to take a progressive role in this, including within our membership. It is tragic that the Right and Advance Party are voting against this ban, and it is tragic that the government is actively working against this ban. When they tacitly accept Donald Trump's new upgrading strategy, they also become part of the problem and not the solution. They're on the wrong side of the story. Fortunately, they do not have a majority today. This is a historic day. It's a happy day. I would like to thank all those who have stood by, in civil society and in organisations, and who are on the move.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e261	The work for disarmament has many sides. The government's work within the NPT framework in international forums and in cooperation with our closest allies is part of this important work. Another important part is the work of Norwegian civil society for a nuclear-free world. It's also important; both of them I think is important. I've said it before, and I'm saying it again, that we praise the commitment, the strength and the conviction of the brave people who stand behind ICAN, and the work of a nuclear ban. It is correct and important that the ICAN received the 2017 Peace Prize, for they dared to stand behind an agreement that aims to create a world free of nuclear weapons. I noticed that both the President, the Prime Minister and the royal family participated in the distribution of the Peace Prize, and it was both right and dignified. The left is now part of a government that does not go in to sign such an atomic ban, like all the previous governments, regardless of the composition of the different governments. The way the Left votes today is such an expression of our primary position on 19 December, when this position was issued, namely that we need a broader knowledge base to decide whether it is compatible with our NATO membership to sign the agreement. And knowledge is good. At the same time, the Left has always been clear that we must comply with our NATO obligations. We in the Left believe that we cannot agree to anything that weakens our role in NATO or violates our obligations as part of the North Atlantic Alliance. Then I have seen that there have been some critical points against the Workers' Party from the pulpit. If the Workers' Party does not turn around again – they have turned this case around in an affordable way, and it is good that they are for the new line now – there may be an opportunity to investigate this. It can be a healthy contribution – an investigation and knowledge is good. The working party, as I understand it, has turned around, but it remains to see if they stand out. At the same time, I want to take the opportunity to warn that we are staring blindly at the fact that a ban alone is the only piece of nuclear disarmament work. I think it needs a lot more if we're going to be able to achieve the goal and the ambition that we're going to get a world free of nuclear weapons. I think most people agree that it's a good goal, and that we have to try to achieve that goal. The government's efforts to put in place robust control mechanisms for the civil use of nuclear power have been an important contribution. In addition, world-class Norway does, as I understand it, in the effort to achieve good verification arrangements, and this builds up under a serious and long-term disarmament work from Norway and several of our closest allies. That's good. I expect that it has unanimous support in the Chamber. Another contribution that I mentioned is civil society, and the peace prize to ICAN for the work that ICAN has done is an important contribution. It was in its place that the then government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the budget agreement last year earmarked their own funds for ICAN and other actors working for a nuclear-free world. Together, we have four parties behind these funds, and we can all be proud of that, both the current government and the Christian People's Party, that we have granted these funds to ICAN. Today's voting is important, and even more important is that we don't now decide, as I say, because there's only one way to nuclear disarmament, and that's that it should be via an international nuclear ban. I think we have to work on multiple fronts if we're going to reach this, and as I said, the government already works on a good deal of fronts that it's important to notice. Whatever the outcome of today's voting, because it remains to be seen how the voting will be, this government will work to reduce the development, number and extent of the global nuclear arsenal. It's important, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e282	The Christian People's Party is strongly committed to the work of preventing the spread of nuclear weapons and of carrying out mutual, mandatory and verifiable disarmament with a view to a world free of nuclear weapons. We support the long-term work of a real ban on nuclear weapons. So the question is, how do we get there? The central multilateral instrument of this work is the non-proliferation agreement. He orders the original nuclear powers to work for nuclear disarmament – to create a world free of nuclear weapons. At the same time, other Signatories, or signatories, commit themselves not to possess or attempt to obtain nuclear weapons. Many have been achieved since the cold war when it involves the reduction of nuclear weapons arsenals. But in recent years the progress has stopped. It frustrates many – including the Christian People's Party. It has also led to the recognition that new initiatives are needed to make progress in the work of a nuclear-free value. So today we face three main challenges. The first relates to non-proliferation. New countries, except for the five original nuclear powers, have acquired nuclear weapons. It concerns India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel. The nuclear programme in Iran appears to have been halted due to the Iran agreement. The second main challenge relates to non-governmental actors. We must prevent nuclear weapons from coming into the hands of illegal groups. The third challenge is that disarmament is at stake, while several major powers are modernizing their nuclear arsenal. The frustration of this state of affairs contributed to the multiplicity of a UN ban decision last year. A real challenge to this agreement is that no nuclear power has so far wanted to be on this track. Furthermore, no NATO country has signed the agreement. Let it be clear: the Christian People's Party ends up in full about Norwegian NATO membership and mein Norway must act as a reliable actor in NATO cooperation. Nothing in today's decisions contradicts this or rocks this line. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party supports the long-term work of a ban on nuclear weapons. We also believe that Norway should be more actively involved in the UN process to influence the treaty text. The nuclear disarmament effort is so fundamental that Norway should be open to follow multiple tracks. An important track is to revitalise the work under the auspices of the non-proliferation agreement. Then the nuclear powers must be engaged and challenged, so that new cuts will be carried out while the work on non-proliferation is sustained with strength. Trustful actions and adequate verification mechanisms are also keys to new progress in this work. In the latter case, Norway has contributed in an exemplary way. The UN Prohibited Decision represents a new initiative. It can, also by means of the Peace Prize award, get a normative force that advances an actual nuclear disarmament. It clearly also has a pedagogical function. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals for decisions, which are about to abandon SV's proposal for a separate case on the ratification of the ban agreement – but we support a wider distribution of the consequences of the UN decision. The distribution will also look at what any Norwegian accession will mean, and how it goes with our NATO membership. These are issues that are fundamental to peace and security. It should therefore be thoroughly elucidated and disposed of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e310	Today, at Stortinget, we decide that the government will investigate what the UN ban on nuclear weapons means to Norway, and what consequences it will have of agreeing to the agreement. The Greens want such an investigation, but I wonder, is it really necessary to investigate whether the use of nuclear weapons is acceptable? The first blast took place in Alamogordo, New Mexico, July 16, 1945. When Robert Oppenheimer, the father of the nuclear bomb, saw this huge fireball sweeping over him, he must have quoted from the Hindu script Bhagavadgita: «Now I have become death, destroyer of worlds.» For the first time in human history, we had invented a weapon that could lead to our own destruction. All those who have lived during the cold war, or who have parents who can tell about it, know the fear of a nuclear war, for example. In the 1960s, during the Cuba crisis, the disaster was avoided with only a small, small hair-breadth. Even I grew up with images of nuclear bombings, mushrooms, demonstrations, fear of the Soviet Union, fear of nuclear war, fear of nuclear weapons. Much less known is that the danger of nuclear war has not become much smaller after the cold war, rather on the contrary. A week ago, The Doomsday Clock was set to two minutes at twelve. The Judgment Day clock was created by a group of physicists who were part of the Manhattan project in 1945. The reason why the doomsday clock is ticking at twelve now is the nuclear program of North Korea, the increased tension between Russia and the United States, and that several states are starting to modernise their nuclear arsenals. In addition, there is no secret that we have an unpredictable and impulsive president in the White House, who poses threats on Twitter, and has the finger on the nuclear button. To quote Hillary Clinton: «A man you can offer with a tweet is not a man you can trust with nuclear weapons.» It was with this backing that an overwhelming majority of the world's countries signed an agreement to ban nuclear weapons, in the United Nations in December 2017. It's a historic agreement. It prohibits not only the use and threats of nuclear weapons but all the production, development, transport and storage of nuclear weapons on its territory. This ban adds to a wide range of agreements prohibiting weapons that are fundamentally contrary to international humanitarian principles, such as chemical and biological weapons, land mines and class weapons. Norway has had a pioneering role in many of these processes and has been in the forefront with civil society and other progressive states. It is therefore particularly sad that the Norwegian Government has not only been passive in its work on an agreement that prohibits nuclear weapons, but actively countered it and voted against it in the UN General Assembly. The Red-Green Government took an important initiative by inviting a large conference in March 2013 here in Oslo on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. The conference was the beginning of a process leading up to the ban that has now been adopted. However, after the change of government, Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Burnde decided to jump off the so-called humanitarian trail and has since been negative to the agreement. The reason is that it will be contrary to Norway's membership in the NATO alliance and that the countries with nuclear weapons are not party to the agreement. But there is nothing in NATO's strategic concept that would suggest that Norway cannot sign a ban on nuclear weapons, and NATO itself says that the alliance should work for a nuclear-free world. The Greens are pleased that we are going to investigate the issue, but no matter what the investigation shows, we will – and we must – ask ourselves the fundamental moral question: can we stand by to base our security on this destroyer of worlds, as Oppenheimer called it? Here, in our opinion, there is only one correct answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e329	I guess I'm not the only one who gets worried that both Trump and Putin have access to weapons that can cause mass destruction. There are nine countries that have nuclear weapons today. The United States and Russia have 15 times as many nuclear weapons as all the other nuclear powers combined. The role of Norway should be to support a nuclear-free world, and the best security to prevent a nuclear-weapon disaster is disarmament. The nuclear bombs that fell over Hiroshima and Nagasaki killed 210,000 people. Modern nuclear weapons today are much more destructive than the bombs that destroyed the two Japanese cities. The most powerful nuclear weapons today have a destructive force that is about 300 to 500 times greater than the Hiroshima bomb, and there are 15,000 nuclear weapons in the world today. If one of them detonates, tens of thousands of human lives will be lost. These weapons do not contribute to stabilisation, but they can create major human disasters. State pension funds abroad are currently on the staging list of those investing in nuclear weapons. Thus, money from our common pension fund is used to produce some of the worst weapons the world has ever seen. It should not be to live with for a country that wants to have a self-image as a nation of peace. We should be responsible for actively contributing to the work of a nuclear ban. But Norway, as one of the very few countries, actively voted against a process of banning nuclear weapons. The government's justification was NATO membership and a ban on nuclear weapons violates NATO's strategic concept. However, the non-proliferation agreement, which, unlike NATO’s strategic concept, is a legally binding document, obliges all States – including Norway and all nuclear weapons powers in NATO – to negotiate measures for total nuclear disarmament. In addition, NATO's concept also says that NATO is going to create conditions for a world without nuclear weapons. A nuclear-free world is possible, and this is a political choice you can make. Red is against Norway's membership in NATO, it's a well-known case. Also within NATO, some Member States have the opportunity to participate and negotiate a ban on nuclear weapons. In our view, the government has a narrow perception of what kind of action spaces the individual NATO countries have. In our view, nuclear weapons should become illegal weapons for all states. For too long, Norway has had a low level of autonomy in foreign policy, but this may change if there is a willingness to do so in the United Kingdom. The vast majority of countries in the world do not have nuclear weapons today. It is possible to prevent the spread of these weapons to several countries, and not least to rust down in those countries that already have nuclear weapons. Red wants a world free of nuclear weapons and supports the proposal to conduct an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e345	The government is working concretely for the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. This is made clear in the political platform. However, there is no shortcut there. A legally binding framework must come as a result of long-term work and must cover those countries with nuclear weapons. Therefore, it is not up to the government to present a case to the Stortinget on Norwegian signing and ratification of the UN Treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons. I explained that in my opinion on the proposal for a representative. The government's conclusion was, and is, that the prohibition treaty does not bring us closer to a world without nuclear weapons, and it does not, therefore, remove a single nuclear warhead. It is also clear that any accession to this Treaty will not be compatible with our NATO obligations. Although 122 countries voted in favour of the Treaty, none of the nuclear weapons states participated in the nuclear ban negotiations and none of them voted in favour. The position of these countries on the new Treaty was reiterated and further underlined at the UN General Assembly last autumn. At present, the situation is that many countries, including Sweden, have expressed concerns and pointed to weaknesses in the Treaty text. Only 56 countries have signed, and only 4 countries have ratified. A prerequisite for achieving new reductions in the number of nuclear weapons is that there is a need for trust between the countries holding these weapons. That trust is not there today. The main challenge now is to ring the ring of what has been achieved in disarmament and non-proliferation, and to counter precursors to new regional and global arms races. The Government is currently working on multiple lines. We are among the drivers to stop the manufacture of fissile materials for weapons purposes and to build up existing stocks. We are actively working on the implementation of the probationary contract. This type of practical action is essential to provide the basis for future nuclear reductions. We support the diplomatic effort to resolve the crisis surrounding North Korea's nuclear programme. The nuclear agreement with Iran shows that diplomacy can succeed even if the starting point is never so difficult, and the North Korea crisis illustrates the complexity of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. As long as the threat from North Korea's nuclear weapons is present, hardly any of the other nuclear weapons states will unilaterally remove their weapons. The same reasoning applies between established nuclear weapons countries. The only way to approach the zero vision and contribute to a real disarmament is through reciprocal, balanced, irreversible and verifiable reductions. The Government Declaration states that the government will further develop Norway’s international leadership role in the verification of nuclear disarmament. It is essential to ensure that agreements adopted are complied with and that the necessary trust is built. The verification is the most specific area for international disarmament work today. The Norwegian leadership role comes as a result of a long-term and strategic work in which we work with the United Kingdom, as we have done in approx. 10 years, but also now with Sweden and the United States. This week the four countries gathered in London to evaluate the results of a major exercise carried out last year. The aim is to provide a kind of toolbox of options upon which future arms control regimes and disarmament agreements can rely. At the initiative of Norway, the UN is now setting up its own expert group on nuclear disarmament verification. Norway will have a leading role there. We are a pusher from Norway to build up existing stocks and limit and eliminate the use of high-rich uranium in the civil sector, so that it does not go astray. In cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, Norway will now organise an international conference on this topic this year. It is precisely this that represents the main track of government, and it is important that we continue to work within the mechanisms that exist. In September last year, the Council of NATO clearly stated that a ban which does not cover those countries with nuclear weapons will not be effective, nor will it contribute to a reduction in the number of weapons. It will therefore not promote international peace and stability, and many have expressed concern that the Treaty of Prohibition is unfortunately contributing to a polarising debate. If Norway as the only NATO country were to join the Prohibited Treaty, despite the fact that it is not compatible with our NATO obligations, it would distance us from a common ally security policy that has served us and our security well for nearly 70 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e369	Thank you for the presentation. It is true that I do not want to sign this convention either, but the government is now required to carry out an investigation, where the government parties, at least two of them, after what I now experience, will vote against. How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs deal with this – when she is required to assess the consequences of this Convention for Norway and for disarmament, when she really does not want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e376	As several of the speakers have pointed out, of course, you can ask questions in the sense of having to find out something where the conclusion is already given, and, as the Labour Party also says, where it is not relevant to sign or ratify. That is, there is no majority in the Storting to do just that. And of course, the government is going to rule out this ban. An investigation has been started in Sweden, which will run until the month change of October/November, i.e. in good time after the Swedish elections in September, which will assess different aspects of this, and whether it is relevant for Sweden to sign. Sweden has not signed. It has also been highlighted in the proposals for representatives in Italy. There's not going to be any investigation. We also have a close dialogue with my fellow foreign ministers in NATO, and no one is going to conduct these kinds of investigations. But the government will, of course, do what the Storting wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e385	I am surprised at the rhetoric that the speakers of the Right and the Progressive Party have used in the debate today, against suggestions, and especially against the Labour Party. The proposal is accepted and the voice of one of the government parties is accepted. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government are in agreement with the arguments of their main speakers in the Grand Duchy today, the Government Party of the Left must be very, very problematic. The question is: does the Foreign Minister think that it is possible to follow up the decision of the Storting today and make such a settlement in a way that does not raise any doubt about our commitments to NATO, as has been said by the speakers from the Right today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e392	As I replied to the representative Huitfeldt, the government will, of course, carry out such an investigation if there is a majority in the Chamber today, but at the same time – both in the letter of reply I sent to the Stortinget, and in what I just said from the pulpit – we have been clear that we are the only NATO country to carry out such an investigation. It is clear that for NATO countries that are regularly discussing this and are trying to find good ways to achieve real disarmament, using the instruments we have, among other things. the non-proliferation agreement and the verification system that Norway is a driver for improvement may seem strange that Norway, as the only NATO country, chooses to do so, in particular because it is expressed very clearly and clearly from the Labour Party today that neither signing nor ratifying the Prohibit Treaty is at issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e399	This arrangement does not prevent the government from following up actively on all other areas and on all other tracks that can lead to disarmament and that have wide support in Stortinget. Therefore, I thought to point out that the whole Storting is a few things about, not a good argument against the desire of the majority in Stortinget about such an arrangement. I understand the answer to the Minister of Foreign Affairs so that the government did not find it problematic that a government party vote in favour of the proposal adopted. Of course, then it can not be problematic that the opposition party in Stortinget votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e406	Representative Abid Q. Raja gave a full explanation of why the Left will vote as they do. This is a document that was issued in good time before the Left joined the government. It must be a choice left tar. Now I do not know what the central party's primary position is in this, but I have not yet heard the central party speak for the signing and ratification of the prohibition treaty. Then I believe that there is every reason to ask questions of reason to initiate a larger investigation of a question where it is obvious that there is no desire for either signing or ratifying, but that could create some uncertainty among our closest allies about what is Norway's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e413	So what we're discussing here today is the most dangerous weapon of mass destruction in the world. It's a weapons of mass destruction that's impossible to use without it going beyond civilian targets and creating enormous destruction and distress. No one here has argued that this ban is magic, or that it is the only tool we should use. It's one of several instruments. The council says we should call about the disarmament work. It's fine, but the disarmament work goes, with respect to reporting, the wrong path. The storms rust up, and they owe each other. Donald Trump, the president of the United States, our close ally, says that nuclear weapons make the world a safer place. Is there an assessment shared by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e422	I don't think there's any disagreement in this room about the problems with and the danger of nuclear weapons. I am absolutely sure that both the SV and the previous government parties also made absolutely clear when they joined NATO's strategic concept when they were in government in 2010, where nuclear weapons were part of that security strategy. Having said that, I think it's very important that we keep working on the things that can deliver actual and concrete results. In this case, the non-proliferation agreement and the verification regimes are the two important tracks that the government follows and that are gaining ever greater international support. There, Norway takes a leading role, and that is precisely because we want to bring the disarmament work forward. I have noticed that more people here today have pointed to the danger of both the United States and Russia having nuclear weapons. I haven't heard anyone talk about the father by the fact that North Korea is soon finished developing its nuclear program. It is clear that as long as that danger is there, neither does the disarmament work bring forward, because the nuclear weapons states do not want to rust down either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e429	The Christian People's Party supports the long-term work of a ban on nuclear weapons. So it's clear that one of the challenges is how we're going to do it. I noticed that the Council of State in its article pointed out that there have been critical leaderships, among other things. of Sweden on the text of the Treaty. So we also know that Norway had a very passive role in that work. My question is: does Norway want to take a passive role in these kinds of questions, or do we want to be an active driver to get real results? Both my party and the Council of State are very clear that we are going to be part of NATO cooperation, but we have to be able to look at what possibilities, including within NATO cooperation, the kind of initiative we can have, in an area where we really have the same vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e435	It was only one NATO country that took part in the negotiations on the Treaty of Prohibition, and it was the Netherlands. In retrospect, the Netherlands has been very clear that they can neither sign nor ratify, because they believe that the Treaty text is not in any way compatible with NATO membership nor brings the world closer to disarmament. It's precisely in that perspective, as I see the representative Hareide speaking very well from the pulpit, that the disarmament work to the government is now taking place, along the tracks where progress is possible, where we want to take an international lead, and this is especially about verification. It is a matter of preventing the spread of fissile material. The aim is to contribute to the reduction of the use of high-rich uranium in the civil sector and to prevent its diversion. Here we work closely with the International Atomic Energy Agency. We work closely with the UN to contribute to more and better verification. All these things are concrete measures that bring us closer to disarmament. There are tracks the government is going to keep working and intensifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e440	Thank you for having this debate. It's very important, not just for Norway, but maybe too many in the world. What amazes me in the Foreign Minister's presentation is the very boisterous conclusion. Here, the majority in the United Kingdom is asking for an investigation into this issue, a question that 122 countries in the world have wanted. It is also stated in the order from Stortinget that the investigation will seek views from relevant expert community, researchers and civil society organisations and also refer to what is happening in other countries. When Stortinget asks for this, we also expect an investigation to come back where the answers have not been given in advance. We must expect that of respect for the Storting. My question, of course, is this: can the Foreign Minister guarantee that she will respect the wishes of Stortinget and make an investigation that looks at this from different points of view, without all the answers being given in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e447	I have answered that twice already in the round of questions. Of course, the government is going to conduct an investigation if there were to be a majority for that in the Storting today. However, let me stress that one of the reasons Norway and other countries have been inquiring about how this prohibition treaty came into existence is precisely that none of the nuclear weapons States participated. We've seen from other disarmament work, whether it's been chemical and biological weapons or the Class Arms Convention, that it's been essential not only for those countries that have that kind of weapons to participate, but also for the front. It's been the success factor to get a real disarmament. When 122 states vote in favour of the United Nations, while only 56 have signed, and only 4 have ratified, it tells us something about what Sweden said in its explanation of vote when they voted in favour, namely that there are challenges related to the Treaty text that make it uncertain whether it will bring real disarmament, but it is also uncertain whether it will contribute to polarising the disarmament debate we must have within the verification and disarmament regimes we have, whether it concerns NPT, or generally around verification.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e452	Thanks for the answer. I understand the Foreign Minister's arguments. We have heard that quite since this debate came up nearly a year ago. My question was not about her arguments and views on the Treaty itself, but the question was whether she would respect the wishes of the Stortinge to come back to the Stortinge with an unhindered reflection on this, where she also takes views from independent actors, as it says here in the proposal, and whether she will thus respect the majority of the Stortinge by not having concluded in advance with all of this. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e459	Then I'm going to do a fourth try in the line change to confirm that the government will of course come back to the Storting with such an assessment if there is a majority for it in the course of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e464	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e471	The promotion of this proposal by SV is not unexpected. It is reflected in the SV’s safety policy tradition. But the fact that the Workers' Party is behind this, is far more unexpected. Rightly, the Workers' Party has historically had a left-hand side that has not just had its security policy heart anchored in NATO, but it has now functioned so that they have in a way been encapsulated by their own. I noticed the representative Anniken Huitfeldt, who said that Norway as the only NATO country would not sign this prohibition treaty. But at the same time, the Labour Party believes that Norway, as the only NATO country, is going to address this issue, a question that NATO has already concluded on. No, the case does not justify the remedy in this case. This prohibition treaty, signed by 51 countries, and not carrying the nuclear powers, does not lead us further to the goal that we all agree with. If the disarmament process is to bring the world forward, the nuclear powers must be involved, we must have a legal international framework, and it must be possible to verify, simply check, that what we agree on is actually being done. The government’s disarmament work is based on a majority in the United Kingdom from April 2016, where Norway’s disarmament work is to be carried out under the non-proliferation agreement. Norway has been a driving force, as mentioned in the debate several times, among others. for the prohibition of the production of split material, a driver for the United Nations expert group on the verification of disarmament measures and the development of verification measures with the United Kingdom and Sweden. This prohibition treaty is contrary to NATO's interests and is contrary to Norway's interests in NATO. NATO has nuclear weapons, and NATO will have nuclear weapons as long as other states have nuclear weapons. I think I have to end my speech by referring to the former Prime Minister, Labour Party leader and current Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, who has said to the NRK that this Treaty of Prohibition is not a good instrument for achieving the common goal that we all have, namely a nuclear-free world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e484	Now I'm going to cost myself a smile. There's a lot of gloom in this room, but to me this is a joyous day. Despite the fact that I might be a little worried about what we actually get back from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, cf. The substitution of lines here, this is a very nice day. Norway is now launching a signal both to the Norwegian population and to allies in other countries that this issue is now moving. There are significant fixed positions over many, many years that we are now trying to open up a little. It gives a very important signal to those actors around the world, both political and civil society, who want to work for a nuclear-free world. So what's happening in Norway now, no matter what the outcome of this investigation, will be read in the rest of the world as a very exciting development. Of course, it's not that by making an atomic ban, we want to get rid of nuclear weapons. I fully agree with Mr Tetzschner that it will not be a legal regulation that will prohibit nuclear weapons in this way, but at the same time we have seen from other prohibitions on weapons, both bacteriological weapons, chemical weapons and also class weapons and land mines, that the bans work. The use of these weapons went down dramatically after the bans were put in place. One of the most exciting things that happened after the class weapon decision was that Lockheed Martin, the large class weapon manufacturer, was largely restricting his production. Some people in this room claim that nuclear weapons are important and effective and the only way we can keep peace in the world. I fundamentally disagree with that. Nuclear weapons are a standing provocation and basically make the world more dangerous. Nuclear weapons also build up and increase the enemy image between nations and also contribute to increased tension and upgrading. In addition, a nuclear arsenal in the hands of unreliable presidents and heads of state with – I was saying – weak impulse control is simply fatal to the rest of the world. It is also such that behind and beneath lurks Russia. After the international and very provocative annexation of Crimea, it has become more difficult to launch a good and positive debate on disarmament both in Europe and in the world. I get it very well. At the same time, I believe that Norway is now initiating this process, helping to resolve that relationship with Russia. It will be read by Russia as a handshake and will contribute to increased relaxation between our two countries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e495	After listening to the Workers' Party and Huitfeldt's representative, it is quite natural to ask whether this is how the Workers' Party will lead foreign policy in the future, if any. Will evaluate, know the answer, won't sign, won't ratify – what is actually this position? It is also not good to say what kind of decision we are about to take in this matter. In that Opinion, the majority decided that the Government should return to the Grand Duchy with an inquiry to: ‘contain a concrete assessment of the content of the Treaty against current Norwegian defence plans and of the relationship between the legal and political framework conditions resulting from the accession of Norway’. [[...]] In that case, NATO itself has carried out an investigation for us. We know the answer. The North Atlantic Council has established that the Treaty of Prohibition is incompatible with the obligations of the Alliance, and the nuclear powers of NATO, the United States, the United Kingdom and France, have done the same. On the other hand, the majority's decisions give some signals to our allies in NATO that we would prefer to be in addition. Norway thus becomes the only country in the alliance to carry out such an investigation. At a time when the security policy situation is tense, we are not serving this type of isolation. The Prohibit Treaty has received very little approval. Only five countries have ratified it. None of them are NATO members. In its proposal for a decision, the majority shall require the investigation to: ‘look at the investigations currently carried out by the same issues in other countries, including Sweden and Italy, and assess the possible transfer value to Norway.’ No similar investigations are carried out anywhere, and Sweden is not a member country of NATO. The Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated on several occasions that she wishes to keep the country outside NATO, not later than the Riksdag last year, on 1 December 2017. There is reason to challenge the Workers' Party. At best or worst, this is a populist position. The Labour Party has turned around, and it is time for the Workers' Party to respond to that challenge: What does the Labour Party's position mean? Would be involved and evaluated, won't sign, won't ratify, and the answers are known. It's disgusting, it's unclear, and it's a party that has ambitions to lead the country in any future. Once you've figured out, then what? What is the Workers' Party's answer to this important question? So far it seems at worst populistic, at best woolly, but it's just as bad, and the result is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e518	The representative Schou asks what kind of decisions we make today. The decision we are making today is historic and important. The decision is a recognition that disarmament is one of the greatest tasks of our time. I was born near Russia at the fall of the Wall and experienced the decades we've had now, with the end of the cold war, with relaxation, with disarmament, while we're now facing a different situation. When the United States rusts up and owes it to Russia, and Russia rusts up and owes it to the United States, we're inside a dangerous disarmament logic. Some people need to take the initiative to be able to reverse the situation. There is a need for new initiatives — from one leading to further upgrading — to one facilitating disarmament. The nuclear ban is just such an instrument, a new grip to make progress in the work of a nuclear-free world. The decision is a recognition of the peace movement, the ICAN and all the other civil society organisations that have been working on this process. We in the SV have promoted the proposal, but the Treaty had not – and this majority had never – become anything of it without a good and long-term work by civil society. The decision is a milestone in the Norwegian fight against nuclear weapons. The fight against nuclear weapons in Norwegian soil was one of the reasons why SV was founded. It has been an important matter for the party throughout our history. Norway has long been a driver of disarmament and a leading voice for this international. Unfortunately, we have not followed that up in recent years, as we believe that it has not been working well enough. The ban on nuclear weapons is one of the most promising disarmament initiatives since it called the war, and by this decision today we send an important signal that Norway will once again pursue a more active disarmament policy, whether the government will or not. Finally, this decision is a confirmation of something that we in SV have been committed to bringing forward with this government: it does not have a majority in the Stortinget. Nor in foreign policy should the government be left to decide alone. Foreign policy is something that the big parties have usually let the government do on its own. Now there is hope that this line can be softened, that we can have a majority for a more active policy, a number of initiatives for a more active, fair and autonomous foreign policy. I think that'll be important, and then we'll see what this investigation is now bringing. There is no doubt that SV's position is that we want to ratify the nuclear ban. It's not necessarily all of the parties that agree with us today, and that's okay. I think we all serve on a more open, knowledge-based and honest debate. This Treaty now exists, and then it is a natural step forward to look at how we should deal with it – the consequences of signing and the consequences of standing outside. Norway should in any case be a driver of a nuclear-free world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e533	I take the floor to clear up a little bit of the debate. That's what's needed. The Workers' Party has been called populistic by the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. It is always inspiring with statements from experts in the field. He thought our position was populist. Several people have discussed the position of the Workers' Party in this matter. Christian Tybring-Gjedde finished his post by urging the Workers' Party not to split. The only crack in this debate is that the Left has joined the government with some parties who believe the opposite of what they think. It is therefore strange to hear the representative Raja talk about the Workers' Party having turned around when it does not vote. But he's in government with parties he disagrees with. We also need to get a little bit of clarity about what we're really discussing here. We are not discussing whether to sign, we are not discussing whether to ratify the Treaty. What we're discussing is whether we should acquire knowledge. The resistance to it is fascinating. The representative Schou was up here asking what this proposal really means. It involves finding common answers to questions that we need to have a common understanding of: Does this Treaty serve the purpose? Should it have been developed differently? Is there any truth to the fact that it is opposed to the disarmament work that is going on, which is actually slow? Norway is a loyal ally in NATO and an ally who stands up. But it cannot be opposed to being an international player who makes demands, who contributes and who goes ahead. The most important function of a nuclear ban must be that it has a function and that it has legitimacy. The Treaty text shows that there may be improvements. The degree of ratification is a good example of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs was talking about. It worries me, and it worries me especially when this work is so important – we need something that can work according to purpose. This investigation will contribute to that work; it will at least contribute to a common sense of reality. I believe that as politicians, we need to be involved in and create – for the sake of public debate, in respect of civil society, in respect of the organisations that have gone ahead and discuss this and inform the debate, instead of deceiving it. I believe that a common sense of reality and an investigation into this will be a good thing for the public debate and a good thing to get closer to the common goal of a nuclear-free world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e547	I thought the Right spokespersons have a bad day at work today. I can't see that it's in Norway's interest that figures from the largest government party try to doubt whether there's a wide deal in this room about our membership in NATO and the duties that come with it. There was a broad consensus on when this debate started, and there is a broad consensus on when the debate is over. I also can't see the wisdom of using a word like a single word attached to such an expression. The opposition in Stortinget will be more committed to the Norwegian defence than the government party will, and so we will come back to that in connection with the treatment of the revised national budget. Again: The decision taken today in Stortinget is made with the voices of the Government Party on the Left. None of the Right's speakers have found reason to comment on that fact, and then I thought a part of the rhetoric that is used against others, could not be carried out with dissent. On the contrary, the government should be a little bit more apathetic to the plurality that is in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e554	Based on this debate, which, in my opinion, has been a good debate for some time, I think there are two things we can derive. One is that none of the parties, with the exception of SV, has been called upon to sign and ratify the Prohibition Treaty. This means that there is agreement in this room that there is no current policy for Norway. It in itself sends an important signal to NATO. The second is that we all agree to work to contribute to real disarmament. It is in that context that I have also presented the active and broad agenda of the government to contribute to it, in particular in terms of verification and work within the non-proliferation agreement. It's a work we're going to continue. It is not, as the representative Kaski said, whether or not the government wants to – that is exactly what the government wants. That's what we're working on, and that's why we're active in the field. You could say a lot about the defense. Of course, I am proud to belong to a government that has increased the defence budget by 24 pst. Since 2013 and more so, but of course we can leave that debate in this context. I will still just link two comments to the post of Petter Eide. Petter Eide says, quite correctly, that the bans on both class weapons and mines work. But they just work because the countries that have this kind of weapon have been very central to the development of the bans. This involved both class weapons and chemical and biological weapons. In the last field, it was the countries that went ahead to get a ban. My point is that if you get the nuclear powers involved in discussions about this – as we have within the NPT, where 191 countries are involved – we have the opportunity to get results. In conclusion, I would like to pay a little visit to the representative Eide. He said that what we are doing now will be read by Russia as a handshake. It is quite right for the representative, Mr Eide, to draw it far, in the sense that it will be a handshake to Russia that NATO does not stand together on disarmament and security issues. But I guess it's not the kind of signal the representative Eide wants to send, because it will certainly not help to strengthen neither Norwegian nor allied security.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e571	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e587	This is a matter we deal with every year in this room. That is good, because it is necessary that we regularly discuss the participation and priorities of the United Nations and Norway in UN cooperation. The UN is important for Norway for a number of reasons; it is important, not least, to have a global meeting place that is the most efficient and capable of contributing to security and peace, development and respect for human rights. Norway’s emphasis on international cooperation and multilateral solutions is strongly supported by the Stortinget. There is also a great deal of consensus about working on the basis of international law, international law and maritime law. The UN is particularly important in a troubled time when the world community is facing several serious challenges. For this reason, the Stortinget has stressed the importance of a reform in the United Nations at several times, so that the United Nations should operate even better and be a more efficient organisation. Here it is positive that the work on the UN reform seems to have been given a new one after the Portuguese António Guterres took over as the new Secretary General of the United Nations. Increasing rivalry between regional and global powers, authoritarian flows, increasing pressure against fundamental human rights and conflicts and crises has been a gloomy backbone of the 2016 UN General Assembly, and it also has great debates. It also has the increasing migration and the challenges it brings. More than 65 million people were fleeing internally in their own countries or across borders in 2016. Most people will be a few in that there is a significant room for improving international cooperation in order to provide protection to people in flight. There is also a need to find international solutions that are both fair and humane, which can counteract the use of life-threatening refugee routes and prevent human smuggling. The refugee situation is an international challenge that requires international cooperation to meet. It's worth lifting up the positive developments we're looking at in more areas. Millions of people have come out of extreme poverty, and more and more have access to education and basic health services. The 2030 agenda and sustainability targets further promote this work and address important objectives for better social and economic development. The UN's sustainability objectives must underpin Norway's development policy. It also needs the Paris Agreement with the new climate targets that entered into force in the autumn of 2016 and the Action Plan from Addis Ababa for Financing Development. This is an important breakthrough in international cooperation. It also requires Norway and all UN member states to follow up the agreement and to facilitate effective support for the countries in implementation by the United Nations Secretariat and the Secretary-General. The 2016 agenda of the Security Council was marked by the conflicts in Syria, South Sudan, Burundi and Libya. The situation in Western Sahara, the peace process in the Middle East and the human rights situation in North Korea have also been the subject of several cases. The Committee notes that Russia’s violations of international law in Ukraine and active support for President Assad in Syria have an impact on relations with the United States and the other Western countries, and affect the work of the Security Council. In spite of this, the Council was able to gather on important decisions on a common front against terrorism, a consensus on the peace process in Colombia and the election of the new Secretary-General. It is good that the UN's peace-building work was prioritised in 2016. Norway may make a positive contribution through its role as a member of the United Nations Peace Building Commission in 2017 and 2018. There is a good Norwegian tradition of agreement on the major lines of foreign policy, also towards the many agencies of the United Nations. This time there have been quite unanimous comments by the Committee. Where there has come to be some disunity, the matter we are just dealing with, that is, nuclear disarmament. I'm not going to go into the individual parts of this, but I'm going to point out here that there is also a broad consensus about the most central point, such as the meaning of the non-proliferation agreement, the NPT, and that the work on disarmament needs to be done in a balanced, mutually, irreversibly and in a verifiable way. Finally, I have strong support in the Committee and the Stortinget for the decision that Norway is candidates for membership of the Security Council between 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e612	The UN is important to Norway. I very much agree with all of the rapporteur's comments, so I will not try to repeat too much of it. In fact, the treatment of this annual Storing Communication is a good opportunity to discuss UN issues in Stortinget. This may be particularly relevant now that we see increasing pressure on multilateral cooperation. International cooperation that has served Norway very well is under pressure, including from countries that have previously led to joint solutions and free trade. In his speech to the UN General Assembly last autumn, the Prime Minister said that we cannot go back to a world of zero-sum games, narrow national interests and protectionism. Climate change, pandemics, capital flight, terror and irregular migration are cross-border challenges that require global solutions. The further development of a multilateral order based on the UN Charter and international law is clearly at the heart of our interests. That is why we are also concerned about the development and reform of the UN. We need an effective and strong UN. The big news clearly shows that the election of António Guterres as the new Secretary-General was the start of a new chapter for the UN. The UN has now been given a strong, clear and active leader. We support the vision of Guterres for the UN and the reform process. He has launched a wide range of initiatives to strengthen the organisation. He will strengthen the UN's ability to prevent conflicts, increase flexibility and at all events place considerable emphasis on achievements in the field. It reflects our visions for the UN. We want a UN that is better able to carry out its unique mandate. Norway also wants to take responsibility in the UN. That is, as the representative Hareide had in mind, also the reason why we are making elections to the UN Security Council – to one of the non-permanent seats in 2021-2022. The campaign is well under way. With constructive, creative and consensus-building diplomacy, Norway will take responsibility in the Council. And with extensive experience from peace processes, we can make good contributions to peace. It is an integral part of Nordic cooperation that we make elections to the Security Council, and support each other, every four years. Sweden is now on the board doing a very good job. We bisto Sweden in their campaign. It is important that the Nordic countries, as a strong supporter of the United Nations, can promote our values in the Council. We are working closely with our Nordic neighbouring countries in the UN. We hold weekly ambassador meetings in New York City and frequent joint meetings. However, we must guard ourselves to be self-sufficient and instructive. We therefore place great emphasis on linking contacts and creating alliances across regional groups. Cooperation on UN reform in the Norwegian-initiated dual-regional group FN70, with Ethiopia, Ghana, New Zealand, Indonesia, Jordan, Mexico and Colombia in addition to Norway, is a very good example of positive and important cooperation across the UN regional groups. Norway is a fundamental defender of multilateral solutions and international cooperation. International law, and perhaps in particular the law of the sea, has been crucial for the development of our economy and our security. It is a good and absolutely necessary investment for Norway. At a time of increasing pressure on international cooperation, we must take responsibility for defending the value of common solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e631	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e645	Thank you for the opportunity to have such an important debate in Stortinget. There is no doubt that an increasingly digitised world and a digitised economy will also create challenges, competition and a whole new everyday life for Norwegian companies. Of course, it needs to be met primarily through innovation, good product development, efficiency improvement and new thinking, but there are also some other challenges associated with the new and digitised economy. In particular, we see some new business models in which large multinational companies can earn large sums without special presence in countries, making taxation challenging in the respective countries. For many, it seems unreasonable that large multinational companies can earn billions, but adapt so that they do not pay taxes or pay only a very low percentage compared to national companies. We're lucky to live in Norway. We have a society of high trust and little differences. Our children get to go to good schools, the elderly get a worthy old age, and we have a good safety net for those who should be so unfortunate to fall outside. We have made this clear because we have made good choices and worked together across party boundaries, and because we have had a good tax system that ensures that everyone contributes according to their ability. If we are to maintain a good and sustainable welfare society and at the same time ensure that Norway remains the world's best country to live in, the major multinational companies also have to pay taxes, they also have to sign the social contract. The right is concerned with having a tax system that facilitates work, effort and investment, but it is equally important that we have a tax system that ensures that people and businesses pay their fair share of tax. Persons and enterprises that reduce taxes by moving profits out of Norway and plan or hide values away in tax havens are a threat to the welfare community. It undermines incentives for honest work and provides less resources to invest in school, care for the elderly, police and other important Community tasks. When ordinary people see that they get less for their tax money because corporations with billions of dollars do not tax or plan for it out and out, this threatens the legitimacy of the entire tax system. Tax evasion also reduces the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. It is almost impossible for small and medium-sized enterprises operating in Norway to compete with large multinational companies operating aggressive tax planning and achieving taxation well below normal tax levels. If Norwegian companies are to bet and dry to invest in Norway, we must ensure that we compete on equal terms with international players. Tax evasion and tax planning are an international problem, and international solutions are primarily needed. Norway has long been a driver for combating tax evasion across borders. This effort has led to the existence today of one of the world’s largest networks of more than 90 tax agreements for the exchange of tax information between different countries. Norway has been leading the process of concluding information exchange agreements with countries previously closed for transparency and now has agreements on the exchange of tax information with 45 so-called closed jurisdictions. I mention this because the background to taking up this interpolation is that one will look at how we can do this work even better in the future, not that there is a lack of action. The countries that are part of the agreements I have just mentioned are among other things. Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Jersey, the Isle of Man, the British Virgin Islands — some classics — and then Panama. In 2010, the United States introduced new legislation for automatic exchange of account information for financial institutions. Norway was one of the first countries to enter into such an agreement with the United States. This paved the way for work ensuring the collection and automatic exchange of bank information and other financial information from financial institutions around the world. The first exchange of such information was carried out in September 2017. Norway has also been an active driver in the OECD’s efforts to erode the tax base and profit movements. Cooperation is about reducing the possibility that companies with access to multiple tax regimes can exploit differences in taxation between regimes to reduce total taxation. By shifting profits from one country's business to another, tax revenue is reduced to the country where values were created, and it is a key challenge: How do you meet this challenge of getting businesses to tax more where values are created? The evening post has used the sports giant Nike as an example in its articles, and it is estimated that the Norwegian State has allegedly missed 116 million. kr in tax revenue resulting from the company's internal profit movements. According to Aftenposten, small Norwegian Stormberg, who sells too much less than Nike, pays more taxes than the large company. We cannot allow foreign companies to continue such a behaviour. I think it is very good that the government, as the first in Europe, has introduced so-called country-by-country reporting requirements in 2014. The rules require large multinational groups to provide tax authorities with a country-by-country report. The report shall include information on the distribution of income and taxes in the countries in which the group has entities. The objective is to provide a better basis for its control activities, and these reports will be particularly useful in controlling internal prices and conditions in large multinational companies. The reports received by the Norwegian tax administration shall be delivered to the tax authorities of the other countries in which the companies have undertakings by means of automatic exchange of inaccuracies. I could keep referring to what's done, but we have to look forward, because the world is changing very quickly. There are still new business models that Norwegian companies meet, and we have to follow suit. We have also seen surveys in today's business in recent days on how technological change requires a change in international tax rules. Many international companies operate and earn large amounts almost without any kind of presence. It makes it more difficult to tax through current tax rules, and it is an international problem that I will again point out requires international solutions, so that multinational companies can operate in Norway and create values. They are welcome to that, I must stress – competition is welcome, international companies to Norway are welcome. It is good that they create values and jobs, and at the same time that they can also contribute in the same way as Norwegian companies. In order to ensure a sustainable welfare society, we need everyone to contribute, and then we need to step up further efforts to ensure that large multinational companies pay their share. Therefore, Norway must continue to be an active driver internationally, and the tax rate must give priority to the fight against international tax evasion. International cooperation on transparency and exchange of information is essential in order to achieve better results. So I have a question for the Council of State: how does the Council of State think we can best solve the challenge of large multinational companies adapting away from taxes, so that they do not tax in countries where they operate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e670	Let me thank the representative for the question of how I think we can best solve the challenges of large multinationals adapting to pay little or no taxes. This is an important question and has recently received a lot of attention. I think that is positive. I agree with the representative that companies should pay taxes where the business is and important contributions to the value creation of the business take place. This is absolutely fundamental. As noted above, cases of undesirable tax adjustment among multinationals are considered. It's unfortunate. The income from corporate taxes is lower than they could have been, and Norwegian companies may lose in competition with multinationals. However, effective taxation of multinationals is not only about counteracting adaptations to existing legislation, but also about ensuring that existing rules are well adapted to the way multinationals operate. The tax rules must take account of the existence of large multinationals and their increasingly highly digitised activities. How, then, are we going to meet those challenges? I think international tax cooperation is absolutely necessary to find the solutions to today's challenges, and we actively support this work. Let me elaborate: Tax law in cases where activities take place in several countries is mainly distributed between countries through bilateral tax agreements. The agreements are based on internationally agreed principles which, in a simplified manner, confer on the country in which taxpayers engage in economic activity the right to taxation of income from this activity. An exception is made from such a source principle when the activity does not have a certain extent. If non-resident enterprises have subsidiaries in Norway, we can tax the income of the subsidiary. The challenge is to ensure that the pricing of transactions between companies takes place at arm's length or that the profits are not otherwise artificially moved from Norway. The international framework is largely developed through the OECD and the UN and affects how we can set up our national legislation. We are therefore actively involved in the design of the international framework. Norway has been a contributor to the most extensive international tax cooperation in recent times, namely the G20 and the OECD BEPS project. In particular, the project is intended to counteract the profit movements of multinationals, i.e.: arrangements that reduce the tax burden in a country but do not necessarily have a particular impact on real economic conditions. The project's recommendations were presented in autumn 2015, and we are now in an implementation phase involving more than 100 countries. Some of the recommendations are minimum standards to be agreed upon by all countries. Other recommendations are best practice, which countries are expected to implement, but where there is more room for national adaptations. In Norway, we have come a long way in implementing the BEPS measures. Among other things, we have strengthened the guidelines for pricing intra-group transactions and introduced country-by-country reporting to tax authorities. In 2017, we also signed an agreement with several countries that will change several of our existing tax agreements, and this will include this. counteract the circumvention of tax agreements. In order to counteract the profit shift through the interest deduction, Norway introduced an interest-rate reduction rule in 2014 and in 2017, we sent a proposal to consult to extend the rule to cover external interest rates. A proposal to strengthen the rules on where a company is to be regarded as a resident has also been put to the hearing, and we aim to promote a bill for the Stortinget as soon as possible. Let me say: these measures will reduce the possibility of operating with profit-moving and eroding the tax base. The representative, Kapur, points out that the digitised economy can make corporate taxation challenging. That's right. I asked the question in a chronicle in the Evening Post on 29 December last year: if corporate tax is a source-based tax in practice, why can we not then effectively tax the global technology companies that sell services on a large scale in Norway? The simple answer is that these global technology companies have little or no physical presence here. The central economic activity underlying value creation is often considered to occur elsewhere. The result is that Norway, as a market country, can tax the income slightly through corporation tax. However, these undertakings may contribute to the financing of the Norwegian State by other means, e.g.: through the collection and payment of VAT on services sold in Norway. Where an undertaking does not have a physical presence here, any tax right for Norway as a market Member State must be justified. The international debate revolves in particular around two questions. Firstly, one view is that, even if physical presence is lacking, value creation in the market country should be considered as fiscal. In particular, it is noted that user involvement through the provision and collection of data may be an important part of the value creation of digitised business models. If the right to tax is to be determined according to where the values are created, this should in that case be able to give the market country greater pay-off than we see today. A solution discussed is to focus on economic presence, so as to tax revenues in the market country on the basis of the value creation taking place there. There's disagreement here. Much of the reason is that it is demanding to precisely define where values are created. This applies not least in complex and increasingly digitised value chains. Secondly, harmonised stable tax systems are important for economic growth. In addition to avoiding effective taxation in market countries, multinationals may have competitive advantages because they can exploit other weaknesses in the tax regimes, including: lack of home-country taxation. There are many examples of technology or other valuable assets being placed in countries with low or no corporate tax, or in countries with very favourable tax regimes for such income. In order to counteract this, a market country may impose withholding taxes on outgoing payments or new turnover taxes. Such measures will include, inter alia: could be seen as compensating, i.e. intended to compensate for the possible low level of corporate tax on a global scale despite significant global profits. In order to address the challenge of large multinational enterprises paying very little — if anything — taxes, it is important that Norway actively participates in international tax cooperation, particularly in the OECD. We are doing this today, and the government will continue to do so. There is a strong international political pressure to change the current framework, including: awaits the G20 countries for an OECD report in April 2018 on challenges in the taxation of the digital economy. Norway participates in that work. Failure to agree on changes in international legislation is a challenge for countries to introduce more or less uncoordinated measures. In order to be able to tax multinationals effectively, to reduce the possibilities of unfortunate regulatory adaptations and to avoid unnecessary double taxation, it is essential that we find common international solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e698	The Council of State emphasised in a good way this balance between achieving a good tax system in relation to the large multinational companies here at home in Norway, creating good conditions for competition for the companies here at home in Norway, and at the same time recognising that we are a small country. And in the face of a huge global, digitised, frontier-free economy, and not least business models that will, in all the next few years, continue to be frontierless, how do we meet that challenge, how are we going to create good tax systems? Now I hear a lot of other parties say that we can no longer wait for these international agreements, that we must have some strange taxes and strange tax rules, and that they must come as quickly as possible. Personally, I'm concerned about the type of patchwork tax strategy, to use that word, because I think it'll quickly make us have to invent new taxes and taxes to meet one and one type of business model in different industries at a time. I have the most faith that we must meet the international challenges through an international system, and not necessarily through the patchwork strategy here at home, but that does not mean that we should be on the lat side. Although we cannot have peculiar tax rules to meet a global challenge, necessarily, there is nothing in the way that Norway cannot be in the driving seat in terms of OECD cooperation, the EU, etc. So my challenge to the finance minister is then both how we can continue to be in the driver's seat, and perhaps also some more reflections about this requirement that is still coming, that we almost need to have some such ad hoc tax solutions nationally as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e707	It is quite right that Norway, as a small country here, encounters some challenges with the representative defined as the frontierless world economy. However, the more important it is that, in order to protect our tax bases and attract our investment, we have a tax system that is transparent, credible and reliable, and that does not stagger investment away from Norway by having strict, strange rules. At the same time, I understand the pressure that is. I perceive that these are issues that have initially been quite wide fanned by the Storting – we agree quite well that we need to find good balance points in this. But I think, to be absolutely honest, that it's a very bad answer to be able to show the power of action by making a lot of strange rules that might end up going completely against the intention. Nor is it the case that unilateral measures have to some extent been implemented in other countries. I heard that it was discussed in part during the spontaneous questioning session yesterday, but it is, as I know, not right. Initiatives have been taken, for example, from many EU countries, but it is about harmonising and joining forces to establish a European regulatory framework for this, not specific rules for individual Member States in Europe. But India, for example. have introduced what they call a turnover tax, which is very similar to what is now being investigated both in the EU and in the OECD. In Hungary, a tax has been introduced on so-called advertising revenue. Neither France nor Germany, as I heard was mentioned explicitly yesterday, have introduced their own turnover taxes, but they have submitted proposals to investigate this at EU level. It is again in line with the approach of the government: working closely at different international forums to produce good international solutions and agreements that regulate this in a good way. For this purpose, we must all agree that companies must be properly taxed and where they are resident. It is in this way that we ensure that the tax bases are not eroded, and that we do not get a distortion of competition between operators operating in the same market, but perhaps end up being taxed completely differently because of poorly harmonised legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e716	First, thank you to the interpellant, who addresses an important question. Tax adaptations not contributing to the Community must be controlled, whether in the case of enterprises or individuals. It is important for the tax system to have legitimacy. The willingness to pay the right tax is greater if one is sure that everyone else does. Therefore, there should be transparency, transparency and democratic debate on taxation and capital flows. A report prepared by several aid organisations estimates that the loss due to adaptations is approximately 500 billion. dollar on a global scale. It affects both high-income and low-income countries and creates unhealthy competition for companies that do not operate across borders. The challenge of international companies moving money flows around to prevent taxation is not new, and in the eight years of red-green government, a number of tax agreements were concluded with countries, among others. to avoid companies being organised away from paying taxes. Land-to-country reporting also contributes to this, but there is much to suggest that there is a need to make some adjustments in that reporting. An exception from reporting is made for companies that pay less than 800000 kroner in taxes to a country. It's not a good tool to see if companies pay taxes. For the Workers' Party, it is important that there is full transparency about what is being reported, and we look forward to the Minister of Finance following the advice that has come after an evaluation report on the country-to-country reporting system has been prepared. Tax adjustment is also a central element of the tax settlement. In previous discussions on the same theme, the Committee has said that it is unclear whether the current law is equipped to meet increasingly complex financial structures. In the tax settlement, the government was asked to take the initiative to clarify whether current legislation is sufficient. I think that's reason to say that we can expect that there will be a status on it if not too long. It's hard to see what the government has actually done to the problem, in addition to defining it as a problem that needs to be solved internationally. I agree that international cooperation is important, and I think the Minister of Finance often says very well when it comes to analysing the problem, but there are not so many new solutions. The OECD BEPS recommendations, i.e. the systematic effort to erode tax bases and profit movements, have given countries new tools, but it must be a principle that data collection is transparent. I don't think these rules are enough to solve the problems, and I hear here that the Council of State says you're working on implementing them in Norway. I hope that we get them implemented quite quickly, because that's also part of the tax settlement. So it's said in the Jeløya statement that the government will work to prevent profit movements, and then it might be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance say something more about the new grips. In a line-up we had in the statement debate, I said something about the fact that I think it is a bad tool that we in Norway see a development in which several international companies win bids in the welfare sector. A Swedish report says that the return of companies operating in the welfare sector in Sweden is almost twice as high as that of those operating in the service sector. Money that should have been spent on welfare is moved to companies with an office address in tax havens. The winner is neither the services nor the state treasury – only the owners. In the absence of tools in the toolbox, it should be obvious that the privatisation tool that we have seen in the last four years, and which is reinforced in the Jeløya Declaration, is not a tool for less tax evasion from Norway. The digital economy gives us new challenges. The definition of a fixed operating site is not appropriate, and I agree with the Minister of Finance's analysis of it. But Norway is a digital country, and then we should go ahead in order to get tax revenues from the digital economy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e739	The representative, Mr Kapur, addresses a very important and topical issue in the debate on society. This and this type of topic will most likely only become even more important in the coming years, not only in Norway but also in the rest of the world. Technological developments worldwide — digitisation, automation — will lead to incredible breakthroughs in welfare, medicine, technology and new working methods and methods. But it also brings some challenges and dilemmas, and this is of them. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance – and I believe a majority in this Chamber, perhaps apart from the parties on the outer left flank – sees this as an international challenge. International challenges cannot be solved in Norway alone – it is in the nature of the case – but need to be addressed in international forums, with international cooperation. That's where Norway takes a leading role. The BEPS cooperation and project under the auspices of the OECD and the G20 have already been mentioned. Implementation is underway and more than 100 countries are involved. We in Norway have come a long way. We have also taken other important steps, which the representative of Aasrud has unfortunately not taken, but, as the Council of State said, among other things. the interest-rate reduction rule and the proposal to extend to external interest rates, which were in consultation last year. Taxing values where value creation takes place is an important and good principle and should be followed as far as possible in policy-making. At the same time, we also know from national debates over the last decades that it is not necessarily very simple in practice. A farm on Fröya with smolt from Snillfjord, but where the fish are slaughtered on Hitra, and the head office is located on Aker Brugge, is a good example of that. Which municipality should be left with the gain? Although no specific companies or sectors are mentioned in the interpellation, there is no doubt that it has been particularly challenging, especially for one industry, namely the media industry. I have great sympathy with Norwegian media houses, which experience falls in advertising revenue, and how more and more actors who used the traditional media houses in the past are now moving their market and advertising budgets away from Schibsted and Polaris and across to Facebook, Google and Amazon. However, this is not unique to Norwegian media or Norwegian society, and there is also some solution here. The democratic nations of the world, who hold freedom of expression and freedom of the press high, should have a common mission to resolve this. I will not in any way give Norwegian media houses priority in any way, but the competition must be more like what it is today, and that is what we are about to do. Yesterday, at the hearing of the Financial Committee on a proposal for a representative on the same subject, to be discussed later by the Storting, many Hearing Officers expressed concern that the processes were going too slowly, and that we have to do something at home before saving the rest of the world with international commitment and regulation. However, it was difficult to get what you specifically want, and that is at the heart of the challenge here. Special taxes and taxes are not the solution either for companies or for us as a nation. We've had enough of them already. A small national meeting with large international companies cannot be isolated. Had it been easy to solve this, it would most likely have been done already. It was also said that the major international technology companies are so powerful and have enormous resources to plan away from taxes. It is possible that this is the case, but I also think the picture is somewhat more nuanced. The managing director of Google said at the World Economic Forum in Davos a few weeks ago that Google is willing to pay more taxes, but that the world community has to find out where to pay that tax. He also said that Google pays about 20 pst. the turnover in tax today. The tax morality in Norway is high. The reason is that we know that the tax helps to finance our communities and completely basic services for the inhabitants. It also demands that everyone contribute. Once again, it helps us keep the tax rates as low as possible. This is by no means a resignation on behalf of the Norwegian authorities – far from it. The fact that Norway has a driving role in this international work makes me sure that we can actually do something in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e762	I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Kapur for raising an important interplay debate on an important topic for Norway and an important theme for the future. It is both about how to provide Norwegian enterprises, about how to finance the Norwegian welfare society, and it is about trust in Norwegian society – that one should feel that it is a fair tax system, a tax system based on taxes according to capacity, and where it is possible to operate business activities in Norway within acceptable framework conditions. The principle that taxation should take place in the country of the creation of value added is, I think, a broad consensus. At the same time, I have to say that it is also a little obvious that the representative, Mr Kapur, finds reason to promote an interpellation in the United Kingdom on this issue – the representative, Mr Kapur, representing the Right Party of Government. It should have been the government that was on the offensive to present measures and make suggestions on how to address these problems, and not that it is a representative of the government parties in the Stortinget who feel the need to raise the issue. But all credit to Kapur for having traveled this interpellation. The representative, Bjørnstad, was just in the pulpit and showed that action has been taken here, where the government is doing a job. Well, it's not a work that the government has initiated. For example, when reference was made to the tax settlement in the previous period, it was not the government tax notification that contained many measures in this area — on the contrary. The tax notification was extremely thin on the measures against profit movements. Indeed, it was in the process of the Storting that the opposition had to make concrete proposals on how to get a few measures against profit movements, for example some of the measures that have already been mentioned here, and in the tax settlement there are more concrete points that have not yet been followed up by the government. It states that one should have a clear, clear and rapid follow-up to the measures recommended by the OECD. It also states that one should have extended country-by-country reporting, and there is evidence of an extension of the interest rate restriction rule. But it is not the government that has stood in front of this, not in advance of the tax settlement, nor in the back. It's the opposition that's had to ask for it in retrospect. When, for example: For country-by-country reporting, the opposition has subsequently ensured that one needs to have further enhanced country-by-country reporting based on increased transparency beyond what the government has seen. And with regard to the interest-rate limitation rule, what the Storting said in the tax settlement is that it should be extended to include external interest, still not implemented, despite having been called several times. Despite the fact that the Central Party has proposed it in its alternative budget, both in 2016, in 2017 and 2018, the majority of the Stortinget has still not taken part in it. It's urgent to do something about it. Then the Central Party agrees with the importance of international cooperation in this area, and we are also involved in many of the initiatives that, for example, the EU is taking to do something related to tax adjustment. At the same time, international cooperation and not least our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement is also a major challenge for Norway in this area because it also limits us when we want to implement measures. We have seen that in the past, for example, when Norway had to change the rules that we had when it came to withholding taxes on dividends. ESA has also committed itself to Norway with regard to the reporting in Norway related to the prevention of tax evasion, and the previously mentioned interest-rate reduction rule has also been committed by ESA, because they believe that it is more likely to affect companies with branches abroad. However, it is precisely in order to prevent excess migration — that is precisely why — that one must have such concrete measures. Therefore, it is important that we are forward-looking in Norway, which is why it is important that one comes up with more concrete actions from the Norwegian side both in terms of international cooperation and in terms of taking the lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e773	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Kapur, for giving us the opportunity to discuss this. I don't think I disagree so much with much of what was said by him in his introduction. I think it is important to establish, and that was also my impression after the hearing in the Financial Committee yesterday, that no one here disagrees with the seriousness and importance of what we are talking about now – fortunately. The question then, of course, is whether we are able to find the solutions and drive them through. This is clearly one of the major challenges in terms of how to manage to finance the welfare state – to be able to maintain trust in society, to succeed in reducing the differences in the world between rich and poor countries and within countries, we must be able to close the opportunities for both aggressive tax planning, the growth of the tax havens that we have seen over the last year, and the fact that developing countries lose 1,600 billion. kr every year in tax evasion. There are great challenges for us. This has been a lot of attention around, and I think it is important to stress that this is not just a problem that has arisen in the context of digitisation and technology. This is a development that we have seen over several years, which is, of course, reinforced by the introduction of digitisation, but which has nevertheless been at the bottom for a longer time. What I think is worrying is that despite the fact that the seriousness has been there for a long time, and despite the attention attached to this over a long period of time, we still see that the scale is growing. The trend in the amount of profits transferred from companies to tax havens is increasing. That's why it's quite obvious that there's a need for more active grips here. I am so pleased that we find wording related to this in the government platform. It's positive, although I also notice that there are formulations that are concerned with supporting international work, working for transparency and supporting the work for better tax principles. That's good, of course. The question is whether we should do something more than just support and work for, whether we should take the initiative, whether we should push it forward, and whether we should take a lead in this. I listened with interest to the Minister of Finance's statement on what Norway is doing. It is obvious that there is a work going on around this. That's good, of course. Then several representatives have pointed to some of the grips that we are calling for from the opposition. Tax Justice Network recently launched its Financial Secrecy Index, which shows that Norway is the worst out of the Nordic countries in that ranking. It's about openness. We also came out badly in 2015, and both Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland require all more economic openness from their companies than Norway does. This concerns, among other things: on country-by-country reporting. There, the Storting decided on repeated occasions to seal the dirt holes in order to improve that regulation. There has now been a hearing in which there is broad agreement among the hearing bodies that there are loopholes in the regulation currently in place, which prevent the purpose of the regulation from being achieved. Both Finance Norway and Ecokrim agree on this. The question remains: will there be a matter from the government so that we can seal the dirtholes that I think there will be a majority in the Storting to get to? The second is a public ownership register, which Stortinget has decided to set up, which is called for, and which I am interested in hearing the status of, and, of course, further details on what we are going to do in Norway in addition to following the processes that are going on in the OECD. One of those processes is not linked to the OECD, but to the EU, which is now discussing the introduction of a more uniform approach to corporate tax across the Union, a so-called Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB), a uniform tax regime that will provide a new way of taxing companies. It would have been interesting to hear from the Minister of Finance how the government intends to deal with these discussions, about the more uniform approach, whether there is something we should go in to integrate into Norwegian taxation, or how we view it. Then there is a broad consensus to follow-up during the international processes. But let me just stress that the international space is not an actorless space – the OECD is an actor with some interests, including tax havens. There is a great pressure from civil society to include more developing countries and the UN. I would like to hear something about it from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e790	The representative, Mr Kapur, addresses a very important topic – as many others have mentioned. It is very good that the other parties are on the agenda when the Green Party sets the agenda with our proposal for better taxation of digital business models, so-called Google tax. Today's out-of-date tax rules from the 1900s no longer match the modern, global Internet-driven economy. The consequences of this are cross-border, and the changes must start more than one place at a time. Is it e.g. is it fair that Norwegian digital companies pay both VAT and tax, while global digital companies do not pay? Their turnover depends entirely on our efforts, good welfare societies, our institutions and well-functioning markets. People now expect the government to take the initiative to correct this injustice and not just wait for international, very slow processes from often very little progressive institutions. It is not every day that we experienced what we experienced at the hearing yesterday, that the Norwegian industry, with Schibsted in mind, is on the barricades together with the EL and IT Association, the Trade Union and the LO. One reason why we're trying to figure out something like this is that trust in the community is at stake. When free passengers, such as Google and Facebook, are allowed to avoid taxes, the tax burden is left to ordinary wage earners. At the same time, this is an incredibly important part of the economy. We see a turn from what we call Big Oil, or a big fossil-based industry, to today's situation, where five of the world's largest companies are exclusively digital: Facebook, Apple, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon. In Europe, the app economy and the Facebook platform, according to a study, contribute to 800 000 jobs. This is an incredibly important industry, and Schibsted, a leading Norwegian media company, is now calling for action from the Norwegian authorities in this field. Should Schibsted, for example. move parts of their business to Ireland for the same benefits as the international actors? Of course, we can wait for the OECD to have some rules in place – in the meantime, jobs and value creation are at risk. Sitting still in this boat and claiming to be active in international forums is no solution. Starting with tax changes where some countries go ahead is the starting point for progress. Success begins with someone coming forward. What we need now is not to investigate the entire Norwegian tax system, but to focus on the most obvious shortcomings first. We expect an OECD report in April 2018, but the final one will probably be available in 2020, and then there will be long rounds of audits after that. The OECD has no tradition of being very forward-looking. Nor have they been created for developing countries, and in the case of open tax registers, they have left their legs behind. What we need is more examples like France, which has made a bilateral agreement with Amazon. This is very similar to the fact that Norway in its time began to develop oil tax agreements with what was then the world’s largest industry. Then it wanted to get into our economy, and we had to adapt the tax system to make it work. The challenge is of a similar magnitude now. I react when the representative Bjørnstad makes an artificial distinction with an isolated Norway and strange rules on the one hand, and that is bad, and international cooperation in the OECD and the G20 on the other, and that is good. We can always claim a driving role in these forums – the problem is that it is based on a false contrast. Some countries need to gain experience with different models, and then they want to be included in international forums. In this way, we are getting faster progress in what we all agree on, namely that the final solutions are international, and we are getting better coordination. I will mention some examples of things I want the Minister of Finance to address: increased transparency requirements, for example. by using the oil fund to impose fiscal transparency on the companies in which we have invested and by making new demands on what a fixed place of business in the country implies. We can also take the initiative of a United Nations Conference on Tax and Financial Transparency and, as Mr Kaski mentioned, take the initiative of joining the CCTB. We can also investigate and start negotiations on uniform taxation in our multinational tax agreements, such as the Nordic one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e809	Thank you to the representatives, and not least to the Minister of Finance, who has taken part in the debate today. I appreciate that so many show commitment, and I thank the debaters both for their contributions and not least for enriching the debate. I have also noted that several representatives have said that measures by the government are most welcome. I hope that also applies on the day that the government might also come back in this room with growth-promoting tax reliefs, although that is not what we are talking about today. If there's something worse than that the tax is not paid more where the values are created, it's that the values are not created at all. I think the Minister of Finance addressed that in a good way. We must not forget that it is positive that international companies look to Norway, that they want to establish jobs and operate with value creation. And then we must not forget that, although we are a small nation, we are also out in the international community and want our businesses to succeed out there in a tough market, and in order to strike a good balance between both of these reasons, there is no doubt that we need to have good international tax rules. I took note of the small challenge of the Senter party, but I must probably disappoint the representative that, through the work I have received from my voters, this magnificent representative will take advantage of the opportunity to use my large-scale representative job to take up politics and use the Storting as a platform to debate political issues. So the representative gets to wait in suspense for the next time. Finally, I would like to thank everyone once again for a good debate. Again, I would like to stress this incredibly important need to find a good balance between continuing to have international investments, creating jobs in Norway and being an attractive country – this combined with the good policy we are already making on the innovation side, with tax incentives that generate growth, and not least that we are a country that also sends Norwegian companies into the big world, so that they can also establish themselves, and that is the international rules that will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e823	Let me first say that I notice that the opposition has started with a new technique by trying to create the impression that the government is saying and analysing things in a very good way, but we're not going to do anything about it. That's not right. This government has implemented a wide range of measures to close these gaps and to help us get better rules, not least internationally. In the eagerness to win the race for who is promoting most of the proposals on this issue, we also have to stop for a moment and think about whether the proposals that are being promoted here are good, accurate and offer the solutions that we actually want us to get. I realized that the representative Kaski was in it, and we agree quite well on what we have to do, but at the same time we have to push. That's what we're doing. We are an active driver in the international forums in order to reach an agreement as quickly as possible. It's e.g. when the EU discusses this on the initiative of, among others. France and Germany, there are several countries that are committed to common taxation in this area, but there are also conflicting Member States. It's a fact. It is also a fact that the Norwegian tax director is in charge of the tax network in the OECD. It is not without reason that he has got that job. This is because we have been a driving force in this kind of context for many years – and under changing governments – because we want to get good results. Nor is it right that we have not done anything from the Norwegian side. We are well advanced in implementing the BEPS measures, country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities, and we have signed different agreements, no later than 2017. The interest-rate reduction rule came in 2014. In 2017, we sent out to the hearing the question of external interest rates in relation to the interest rate reduction rule, and we also have suggestions for consulting residents. All of this is going on, along with working actively to get good international agreements in place. That's essentially what we have to do. Then there was a question from the representative Kaski about the public ownership register. I called for that last week at the latest. I am concerned that we have to get this matter before Stortinget as soon as possible, and where the Ministry of Finance works with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to put that solution in place as quickly as possible. As for the reference to the Tax Justice Network, I think we need to see the positive in the recent report. Norway has climbed up the list, from 53rd place to 45th place, and we are on the top list compared to other Nordic countries. That doesn't mean we're going to lean back happy, because there's still room to do more. We now have the consultation on the evaluation report on the LLR legislation. The hearing is over, and we're now looking at how we're going to follow it up. The Whitewashing Law Committee is a matter that will soon be followed up with its own case to Stortinget. So I think we're essentially following this up as actively as we can, but in such a way that we don't end up taxing ourselves completely away from being attractive to foreign companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e836	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e852	The development of new financial technologies is driving innovation in financial markets around the world. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that the issues I want to address in this interpellation are intended to apply to all types of virtual currency, but I'm going to concentrate on cryptocurrency essentially. In the last year special attention has been paid to the uptake of just cryptocurrency, both internationally and in the Norwegian economy. Digital currency based on blockade technology provides decentralised control by disseminating information to a large number of computers that continuously update and control each other without a server or central authority. It's called a currency, but it also has characteristics that make it more similar to another type of financial instrument or to a digital product. The currency exists independently of a third party, unlike most other currencies, which usually exist with a central bank and are forced means of payment. Cryptovaluta works largely independently of national borders. Transactions are carried out anonymously and they are very difficult to trace. It is estimated that there are now more than 1,500 cryptocurrency today. Two of the largest are bitcoin and ethereum. In practice, anyone can create a cryptocurrency, for example: to raise capital for a company. The cryptocurrency has existed since 2009, but has been seriously put on the agenda for the last year because the interest and availability have exploded. Norstat now estimates that approx. 200,000 Nordics own cryptocurrency. In comparison, it is approx. 365 000 who own shares. The value of cryptocurrency is subject to large fluctuations and investment is also associated with a high risk. At the beginning of 2017, bitcoin had a value of about $960. There was a peak in December when the value was up to over $20,000. Tuesday, February 6, the rate was down to about $6,000 again, but the next day it was back to over $8,000. That's quite illustrative. In comparison, ethereum, the second largest, had an increase in value of more than 9 000 pst in 2017, while bitcoin had only an increase of 1 350 pst. Kryptovaluta has not been issued by the public authority. Nor is it regulated and excluded from financial legislation in Norway. Several actors have indicated that rapid developments are taking place, almost without political regulation, in Norway. Virtual currency may be attractive for corruption, tax evasion, money laundering and terrorist financing or illegal activities. For example, cybercrime: have been examples of so-called ransom virus where the ransom is required in bitcoin. The currency can be traced to some extent, but it's demanding, and it's varying to what extent it's possible because you're not obliged to give the ID when you're dealing with it. A threat assessment by the National Interterritorial Analysis and Intelligence Centre, NTAES, from June 2017 states that virtual currency is one of the greatest threats to the fight against economic crime. Furthermore, the lack of regulation poses major challenges for the control and police activities because tools are available to fight crime using cryptocurrency. Some cryptocurrency may also be used as a payment on the dark network and can then be easily exchanged to traditional currency through foreign exchange exchangers. On 11 January, DNB issued a warning following a sharp increase in investment fraud related to bitcoin and other cryptocurrency, and Sparebank 1 has also experienced serious fraud. The followers of the cryptocurrency are saying that we now have a payment system that does not depend on trust in the same way as traditional currency. Some claim that it can provide lower transaction costs, secure execution of transactions, and facilitate cross-border transactions. However, skeptics, on their part, have suggested that it is a bubble, that it does not have the value of all the time we already have to secure payment systems, that it can undermine the established financial system, and that as long as the currency depends on confidence in the financial market, it is also trust-based. The Information Director of Finance Norway and the Executive Director of Bits last year wrote a chronicle entitled ‘Bitcoin can rage on the welfare state’ and invited the authorities to assess restrictions. During a talk on money in the digital world in Frankfurt on Tuesday 6 February, Agustín Carstens, head of the central bank, pointed to challenges with cryptocurrency, such as large price fluctuations, high transaction costs and a lack of protection for consumers and investors, and considered cryptocurrency to be unsafe and a threat to financial stability. He called on the authorities to take action against cryptocurrency. There are very wide variations in how countries relate to cryptocurrency. In Asia, there are many who have put in place strict regulations, including: India, Vietnam, South Korea and China. Japan is in contrast, they recognise bitcoin as a currency and means of payment, and they see it as an opportunity to exploit financial technology positively. They have 15 nationally licensed currency exchanges to trade in digital values and have reacted with penalties to transfer actors who have acted unfairly, including those who have not been able to do so. by punishing the crypto company Coincheck after they were robbed for customer values of more than 4 billion. kr. The regulation of bitcoin will take place at the G20 meeting in Argentina later this year, following the initiative of France and Germany, and the EU is also preparing legislation to address money laundering and terrorist financing. On 6 February, the US Senate Finance Committee conducted a hearing with the US Securities and Exchange Commissions. The emphasis was placed on the fact that virtual currency is something that cannot be ignored, it is linked to high investment risk and fraud, and there is a need for a balanced approach and possible policy regulation of the market. It's enough to see a few years back in time to find that technology's acquisitions have radically changed the world. It has created opportunities, but it has also put great pressure on traditional structures. For example, some people predicted. that the Internet was a flop, but today it is difficult to imagine a life without the Internet. When the growth of the sharing economy took place seriously some years ago, we also faced opportunities for better organisation and efficiency, but at the same time challenges and concerns related to non-regulation, which have gradually come into being increasingly. With regard to cryptocurrency, I believe it is time for the Norwegian authorities to show action, because there are major uncertainties related to virtual currency, and there is a great deal of concern that it is not yet regulated. We must ensure that security, transparency and integrity also apply to virtual currency, in line with other players in the financial market. Without regulation, we have no control over the impact of cryptocurrency on consumers, investors or the financial system, or how it acts and is used as an instrument for crime. I believe that the government and the Storting must take on board that regulation and legislation that have historically been applicable to traditional currency is not catching up and may not be appropriate for the development of virtual currency. There is a great need to review and make regulatory changes to ensure that digital currency is also subject to authority control, and I believe it is urgent. We must be constructive and forward-looking and take on board that the development of technology is going to bring about changes that we are not able to foresee today, and perhaps also opportunities, but we cannot let it continue on our own. It is necessary that we address issues such as cybersecurity in relation to cryptocurrency, reporting obligations, measures to prevent fraud, price manipulation, money laundering, tax evasion and terrorist financing. There may also be a need for measures that increase consumer and investor awareness and knowledge, which are currently exposed to high risks without our control. Then I have come to the question: how will the Minister of Finance regulate cryptocurrency politically?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e892	The interest and attention of private digital currencies, also referred to as virtual currencies, or cryptocurrency, has increased considerably over the autumn, in line with strong value growth and not least strong fluctuations in several of the currencies. Bitcoin is the most famous of the private digital currencies and the one with the highest market value. At present, there are an estimated 20 million users of bitcoin, and a recent survey estimates that there are nearly 200,000 Nordics who own bitcoin. The virtual currencies have different characteristics, underlying technologies and prevalence. A central feature is that these have not been issued, regulated or guaranteed by a public authority. The technology behind the virtual currency bitcoin has been much described in the last year. Bitcoin is traded and created in a decentralised system based on so-called blockade technology. Cryptography and complex mathematical problems are central to making the system safe and sure that bitcoin can only be used by the person who owns them, and never more than once. The decentralisation of the system means that there is no central body verifying the activity of the system. The verification of the transactions takes place through the agreement of a sufficient number of participants in the system on what is correct. The more participants in the system, the safer it is. The emergence of cryptocurrency such as bitcoin and the development of block edge technologies pose both challenges and opportunities. The challenges are so far more concrete than the possibilities. As the interpellant mentions, several risk areas have been identified for virtual currencies. The issues include, inter alia: weak traceability and anonymity, but traceability and anonymity vary between virtual currencies. Virtual currencies are largely traded irrespective of borders. Effective measures should therefore be taken primarily at international level, for example: in the EU. I have also registered that an initiative will be taken from both the German and French authorities related to possible regulation of virtual currencies at the next G20 meeting. In the EU, it was proposed in July 2016 to regulate both exchangers and storage services for virtual currency under the legislation on money laundering. EU negotiations were ongoing until December 2017, when there was agreement to amend the fourth Directive on money laundering. These changes require these services to be subject to the legislation on money laundering. Service providers must also be registered by national authorities. Whitewashing law is EEA-relevant, and in a short time, the government is making a legislative proposal on the implementation of the fourth Whitewashing Directive in Norwegian law. Implementation has been investigated by the Whitewashing Law Committee, which recommended that it wait until the future EEA legal obligations arising from the revision of the Directive were clarified. The committee therefore proposed a regulatory body allowing the Whitewashing Act to be extended to exchange platforms for virtual currencies. This question is followed up in the context of the proposal for a new law on money laundering. I make it clear that such a regulation needs to be investigated and heard in the usual way. The emergence of virtual currencies also raises regulatory issues beyond the risk of using such currencies for money laundering and terrorist financing. A central issue is whether – and, if so, how – virtual currencies should be regulated under financial market law. Today, virtual currencies such as bitcoin fall initially outside current financial market regulation in Norway and in other countries. Virtual currencies used exclusively as a means of payment are not financial instruments and are therefore not subject to the Securities Trading Act. However, virtual currencies that have characteristics other than being a means of payment may be subject to securities law. Derivatives quoted on trading venues with virtual currency as the underlying are securities and thus subject to the Securities Trading Act. In 2017, there was strong growth in so-called ‘Initial Coin Offers’, or ICOs. ICOs mean that enterprises collect capital by issuing a type of virtual currency specifically associated with the enterprise. Worldwide, it is estimated that in 2017 several billion dollars were collected through such ICOs. Such raising of capital may, depending on the characteristics of the virtual currency issued, fall within the scope of existing securities legislation. Whether a virtual currency issued in a ICO is considered a financial instrument and thus falls within the scope of financial market law will depend on a specific assessment of the Financial Supervision on a case-by-case basis. Where the issue of a virtual currency is covered by the Securities Code, there are several requirements that need to be complied with. One example is the requirement for prospectuses. If the issue is outside the scope of the current securities regulation, those who invest cannot expect the investor protection resulting from the securities regulation. I would nevertheless like to clarify that there are other rules that may be relevant when someone wants to issue a virtual currency. Examples are rules on marketing and general criminal provisions on fraud. The interpellant refers to specific reports of investment fraud in the media. Given the great attention given to such currencies and their appreciation, it is unfortunately not surprising that the phenomenon attracts many with dishonest purposes. Stories of great returns can tempt people to invest money without thinking as carefully as they would otherwise have done. In 2013, the Financial Supervisory Authority warned consumers that the money invested in virtual currency could be lost. Last November, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority published a new warning to investors and companies about the acquisition of capital through ICOs. In the warning, the Financial Supervisory Authority pointed out that investments in currencies issued in ICOs are risky, with a high risk of loss of investment. The financial supervision also pointed out that such capital gains pose a risk of fraud. The interpellant has also mentioned the potential for misuse of virtual currency for tax evasion. As regards the tax treatment of virtual currency, the Tax Directorate has argued that services related to the exchange of virtual currency, such as bitcoin, are covered by the exemption for financial services under the VAT Act. Furthermore, the practice of the tax haven suggests that bitcoin and other virtual currencies are property items in the sense of tax law and that the general rules of the tax law apply. That is to say, on sale, gains are taxable and losses deductible. Furthermore, the holdings of such a currency by taxpayers will be included in the calculation basis for property taxes. Information on the wealth, purchase and sale of virtual currency is not directly reported to the tax base. Therefore, tax payers are themselves responsible for indicating such wealth and gain/loss in the tax return. There is no doubt that the emergence of virtual currencies such as bitcoin creates challenges that governments have to deal with. Many of the challenges, such as how we combat the use of such currencies for money laundering and terrorist financing, and whether such currencies should be subject to financial market regulation, are international in nature. Such challenges require international cooperation and solutions. At the same time, in addressing these challenges, it is important that we do not place unintentional obstacles to legal activity. The underlying technology behind the virtual currencies may provide opportunities that should be assessed independently of the currencies themselves. Norwegian authorities are very much in favour of digitisation, and we should be open to new technologies as they mature and potentially provide more efficient and user-friendly solutions. In the Yeluia Declaration, the government has signaled that we want to assess how blockade technologies can provide the basis for new value creation. Many, especially in the private sector, look at the opportunities that technology can provide for efficiency and cost savings. It is an exciting development that may provide technology solutions with a wide range of applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e928	Thank you for a good statement from the Minister of Finance. First, I just want to make it clear that I agree with the last thing that was said; the fact that we are now discussing cryptocurrency and the emergence of virtual currency is another discussion than how to use blockage technology, which can actually be useful in a lot of areas. It may also be that virtual currency in the financial market will be a useful thing in the future, but we need to have a conscious relationship with it. At present, we know that there are several Norwegian financial actors who have imposed their own restrictions as a consequence, among other things. of non-regulation and that many associate virtual currency with crime. For example, Nordea has banned all of its 31,000 employees from trading with cryptocurrency until now, and we also get signals from those on the other side, those who are issuers, or those who work with cryptocurrency, that they have major problems because they are not allowed to set up accounts in banks, they are prevented from operating seriously, and they are also not registered in the Brønn Island Health Registers. So there are big challenges that need to be solved to make it a functioning market, if you want to have it. Several of the major financial institutions also follow developments closely themselves, and most of them have their own block section, either to follow up on or to develop block edge technology. Lasse Meholm, who is in DNB, has recently said that changes to the law are needed in this area quickly, and he has called for action from the Ministry of Finance. He has also pointed out that due to lack of regulation there are very many banks that have been pending, so the banks have actually been left to set their own regulations, which is really a political task. Another issue is that developments are moving so fast that it may be difficult to know whether the regulations that are being introduced actually include virtual currency in the future, for example. these new regulations in the EU, which will focus primarily on wallets. It's good that it gets caught up, but there may also be other forms of cryptocurrency that don't go under that code. For example, there's something called "CryptoKitties," which, as far as I know, is not part of that code, and there may also be other things. So I'm very concerned that when we're going to make laws, it has to be such an open and forward-looking law that it not only covers all the issues we have today, but also those we can imagine that we have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e939	I very much agree with the interpellant in much of the way she troubles this question, and I fully agree that we need to have a conscious relationship with what this is all about. So it's clear that a little bit of the challenge is that too many people seem to be new, unknown and uncertain, and so there's a lot of people who are now looking at how to deal with this. What is appropriate regulation? Different countries have slightly different approaches to it. We have from the Norwegian side, as I also explained in the main response to the interpellation, spent a lot of time getting involved in the whole spectrum of this. We closely monitor developments in cryptocurrency, and we have ongoing dialogue with both the Bank of Norway and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority on current issues and issues. But it is also the case that there are some issues that the state has to deal with now, not least the use of such currencies by criminals, the relationship with financial market regulation and the issue of taxation, which I had in mind in my main contribution. So it's right -- I'm at least familiar with -- that there are examples of companies that get into trouble with their banking relationship because they run virtual currencies, maybe they don't get an account at all. Banks may refuse customers under the Financial Contracts Act only if there is a material reason. But I also want to say -- maybe it's a little bit on the side of the interview -- that it's worth noting that there are several central banks that are now investigating the possibility of issuing digital central bank money. The Bank of Norway is in the process of assessing the characteristics and consequences of digital central bank money, but it is at least important here to stress the need to distinguish between private and public digital money. A very central difference is that digital central bank money will be issued and guaranteed by a central bank, while private digital money, as I said instead, is neither issued, regulated nor guaranteed by a public authority. So, as I tried at least to get the main response to the interpellation, it's both challenges and opportunities. It is now easier to see all the challenges, but we also need to be aware that there are opportunities. This market may look different when we come to the second and third generations development of this. But on the way there, we need to have a very conscious relationship with it and think carefully about how we handle it and regulate different aspects of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e956	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing a theme I think is quite unknown terrain for most people – that's perhaps why there seems to be relatively few participants in the debate – but it affects many, who both the inter-pellant and the state council pointed to. The history of some who have made tens of millions with modest investments obviously attracts many to try this unknown — especially in the West, it is said. That's where we'll find most bitcoin investors in Norway. I see that the Minister of Finance in an answer to Mr. Sigbjørn Gülsvik's written question assures me that the Norwegian authorities are closely monitoring the development of cryptocurrency. She has repeated here today that the Ministry of Finance has an ongoing dialogue with the Norwegian Bank and the Financial Supervisory Authority, and that is good. In today's business, Agustín Carstens, the head of the central bank's bank, says: «The authorities must be prepared to act against the intrusive spread of cryptocurrency in order to protect consumers and investors.» The interpellant also quoted this. Carstens says that new technology is not the same as better technology or better economy, and that what was meant to be an alternative method of payment without the involvement of the authorities has become a combination of a bubble and a pyramid game. As the stock exchanges sank this week, the crypto market also became alarmed and heavily depressed. Wednesday went up again – 20 pst. Large values disappeared in the decline, which came back in the rise. Some of these are strong fluctuations that can create uncertainties and imbalances in financial markets. If the scale is large enough, it can turn into the real economy and create crises. In that case, the authorities cannot sit as passive spectators to development, although the cryptocurrency is a private initiative, intended to be payment services without the assistance of third parties. It must be subject to a regulation on financial services, as the interpellant suggested, and to which I felt that the Minister of Finance was positive. It is important to protect investors from fraud. While it is important to protect or safeguard the tax base, it is essential to prevent the emergence of a new threat in financial markets with the potential to create instability and a new financial crisis because it is out of control and regulation that applies to other financial services and instruments. I think it's more than me who finds cryptocurrency pretty mysterious, but the examples of high profits with little effort are obviously tempting to quite a lot, even to people who really can't afford to risk the effort, especially if it's borrowed. Although this is a private initiative outside the sphere of government, I think it's a short way to ask government intervention for the examples of major losses to be as many as pleasant examples of profit. The invitation to throw on the wave is there. I myself, like several of my co-representatives, have received enquiries. Yesterday came the following e-mail from customer service, Norway: ‘Current balance: NOK 56.941,69’ In addition, it stated: «Dear Svein Roald, your account has not been activated yet. Please continue to access your account and withdraw your balance in 10 minutes.» I have neither bought nor dug out, as I understand it's called bitcoin, so where this account comes from, I don't know. But it's more like Nigerian heirs offering investment opportunities than customer service in Nordea. These extremes — the examples that have made a good amount of money, and obvious attempts to cheat — may underline the need for governments to be involved in the phenomenon. As the interpellant pointed out, it is easy to imagine the possibilities of money laundering, financing crime and terrorism, and – which perhaps even a finance minister of the Progress Party is concerned about – tax evasion and the narrowing of the tax base. Here, as in previous interpellation, international cooperation will be important. The OECD and the EU will, as usual, be important venues in this way. They have already made changes to the Money Laundering Directive, as pointed out by the Minister of Finance, to cover virtual currency. The exchange between virtual and ordinary currencies and those offering virtual currencies must follow the rules of the Directive. It's a good start, but more of this is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e997	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an issue that is incredibly important, and which I think – as many people were in it – is getting too little attention, which should get more attention, and where it is demanding to find the right grips and not least be fast enough in view of the developments that are taking place. I think that the Minister of Finance, both in response to me earlier and in the Chamber today, acknowledges that this is a challenge that needs to be addressed and addressed. Although the representative Hansen pointed out that I have had an involvement in the topic both in written questions and in that one can hear that I am originally a Westerner, I just want to have said that I do not have any special opinion with either bitcoin or other cryptocurrency other than that. But there are very many Northmen who have it. What I think is important in what the interpellant has addressed, is just that this is a challenge that we cannot ignore. Here, we as countries both nationally and through international cooperation need to be involved in regulating it. When reference is made to studies in the last few days that there are 200,000 Norwegians who have cryptocurrency, on average NOK 35000 per person – that is, 7 billion. kr – it is incredibly much. 200,000 North is 5 pst. by the adult Norwegian population. Of the 200,000, there's probably a portion of cellar rings, but now let's hope that there's also a good portion of people who are honest Northmen who have other intentions to have gone into this. It may be just an interest in it, there may be prospects of making fast money, but it may also be because one sees that there are challenges in the traditional banking system either that transactions have taken too long, that it is too expensive, or that they see the opportunities that lie in new solutions. It is important for those operating within cryptocurrency to receive good advice — that they have clear rules to deal with, so that, firstly, the authorities are able to take cellar rings and, secondly, to help the Norwegians not become cellar rings. It was shown that Norwegian banks are withdrawing a bit and saying that their own employees are not going to shop in bitcoin, for example, and are detained for customers who want to set up accounts. One thing is that a non-established account can be created at all. For example, another issue that has been raised is that a non-establishment of a business account would have provided better opportunities to continuously track the transactions that you have in relation to tracking and the ability to register. Here, I think it is important that we are on the road and engage in dialogue with those who operate within cryptocurrency today – many have also welcomed the regulation – and that we are clear about the role of the Financial Supervisory Authority. I think it is important that the Financial Supervisory Authority also has a role in terms of advice, in terms of supervision and control – of course – but that those who are there, who may have important information to contribute to the authorities, know where they can go, that those who feel the need to get advice on how to proceed experience a competent Norwegian authority that is being strengthened and that gives them guidance on moving on the right side of the law. There are many exciting initiatives that I think are being taken internationally now. Some of them have been shown here today. I have also shown myself to someone in questions before. I really hope that this is a theme that the government will come back to quickly. It has already been notified by the Minister of Finance regarding the EU and the Whitewashing Directive, but it also applies in other cases and other contexts, so that we get better regulation than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1010	Thank you very much to all those who have engaged, even though we were not so many, and thank you for the Minister of Finance having come here and explained the matter well. I want to start by quoting the bank Goldman Sachs, because it recently compared the development of bitcoin with the tulipmania that ruled the Netherlands between 1634 and 1637, when one very good tulip onion could cost about the same as a normal dwelling. Goldman Sachs says: ‘We believe that the concept of a digital currency using block edge technology is viable in the light of the benefits it can bring: easier payments globally, lower transaction costs, reduction of corrections as all transactions can be traced,’ — if one has identity — ‘security of ownership, and so on. But bitcoin doesn't have any of these qualities. [[...]] I think that's a little bit illustrative, because it shows that there might be possibilities here if, for example. Norway’s Bank issues its own public, controlled and guaranteed currency. It may be desirable, but now it's a bit of chaos and has the mark of being bubble states in the virtual currency markets. It's not so strange, because when a currency or a financial instrument is completely unregulated, it also increases the possibility of price manipulation. It provides the basis for major fluctuations. Consumers, or investors, have run to and from investment in line with the fact that different authorities have come out with regulatory alerts, and there is little control. It makes the whole situation very uncertain, and it's also proof that we need more control. I'm very happy that it's said that there's regulation coming, that it's working on it, but I'm also a little worried that you're mostly regulating backwards in time, that you're looking at the things that have already happened, looking at how things work right now, and regulating just that. I would also encourage the Minister of Finance and the government to be very proactive in the future and think: how can we regulate virtual currency, financial technology, in a way that also captures what we can't imagine? It's a challenge, but I think we have to think that there can be new products, new ways of having digital currency in the future, which means that we have to regulate virtual currency in its entirety, not just for example. The wallets. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1026	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for putting an important and exciting question on the agenda. This is a question that gets a lot of attention, but that many have different opinions about. At least there is no doubt about it. So it's nice that the interpellant has so much faith in me that she believes that we can manage to catch up and handle the things that we can't even imagine today. I think it's important that all those who are actors in this do their job. It is primarily about identifying the challenges we can see, but also about facilitating the opportunities that can come out of this. As I said, we are making proposals for a new law on money laundering, which will help to regulate some of the challenges associated with this. Tax authorities are already on the ball to deal with the tax aspects of this. It is not that the Financial Supervisory Authority has no role at all. They de facto carry out quite clear advice through the warnings they publish about this, and I think that is good. Then they do their job. The Bank of Norway does the same by going through this thoroughly, but also, of course, from a central bank perspective, and the Ministry of Finance, of course, by looking at all the elements of this regulation. I understand that we agree that we need to find a good balance in how we handle something that too many people – I agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen – are somewhat strange and mysterious that we may not want to invest our savings in, while others choose to do so. I think that too many people in today's situation don't experience being real currencies, as we know, because the transactions are going slow, and that de facto are very few places that you can actually carry out transactions, and then at a very slow pace. First of all, it bears the mark of being a risky investment object today, and it must be legal to be able to find good ways to regulate returns. But there are many difficult questions that we need to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1035	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1049	Let me first congratulate the Council of State with new responsibilities in the government and welcome to cooperate also with the EFTA Parliamentary Committee. Last week, there was a new UN statistics on the world's most prosperous country, including the country's natural resources. The statistics showed that Norway tops the list of the world’s most prosperous countries, ahead of Qatar and Switzerland. It's a common perception, especially in the rest of the world, that the oil and the gas have made us so prosperous. We should not underestimate that this natural resource has also contributed to our high prosperity. But with us, as with all other countries, it is man's work that is the most important source of the country's prosperity. For a long time, we have not only had lower unemployment than most other countries; we have also had a higher proportion of the population in productive work. It has been falling somewhat in recent years, which is one of our greatest challenges in terms of the sustainability of the welfare society in the future. Nevertheless, participation in employment remains high in the international context. However, what really distinguishes Norway from almost most other countries is women’s work. Women at work are a far more important contribution to our overall prosperity than all our oil fields. This is why the women's perspective is now also being taken into account in trade policy. Trade has contributed to economic growth, jobs and social development in many countries. Globalisation has raised hundreds of millions out of great poverty, many into the middle class. But the effect of trade can be even greater, if the economic development it contributes to, also raises women into the global value chains that trade has become. Analysis shows that economic growth is increasing when women are brought into the economy and working life. The EU Commission has estimated that the lower participation of women in the EU countries gives a loss of EUR 370 billion per year. In Norway, we know from our own experience that women’s contribution to the world of work brings greater prosperity. Let me add: together with a national policy for fair distribution of economic growth, the effect is even stronger. At the WTO Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires in December, 114 countries signed a declaration obliging signatories to work towards the removal of legislation in trade regimes and trade agreements which prevent or penalise women. This will also contribute to the achievement of the United Nations Development Goals on Gender Equality and the strengthening of women and girls' position and opportunities in society. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee put women and trade on the agenda of its meeting in Geneva this autumn. Our Icelandic colleague, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, addressed the issue at the ministerial meeting last June. It was suggested that the Liechtenstein Minister for Foreign Affairs, Aurelia Frick, put the theme on the agenda of the Liechtenstein Presidency in EFTA last autumn. And as far as we understand, Iceland wants to continue this under its EFTA Presidency this spring. In the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, we draw up a document on the theme to support the work of the Presidency. Unfortunately, there has been considerable opposition to bringing this issue into the EFTA trade agreements of our colleagues from Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The opposition is in fear of making it more difficult to conclude agreements to deal with too many tasks in a trade agreement. Our colleagues want to clean up the trade aspect, and other tasks need to be solved in other contexts. We experienced the same thing when we worked to have our own chapters in the agreement on environmental considerations and employee rights. But we did it that time. Fortunately, Switzerland and Liechtenstein also signed up during the WTO ministerial meeting in December. So we still, hopefully, have this as a priority on the Icelandic Presidency platform as a basis for continuing to work on it in EFTA context. I assume that the new Council of State will be a driving force for this in the EFTA ministerial meetings. Many ask whether this is a new area of women's quota. No, it's not about that. It is about better facilitating – including in trade agreements – to bring women into work, women entrepreneurs into the value chains of trade, removing barriers that prove to be stumbling threads for women. The EU Trade Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, is in the process of exploring the possibility of including a woman chapter in the EU's future trade agreements, including: in the upgrading of the EU agreement with Chile. In the WTO, work is under way, on the basis of the Buenos Aires Declaration. The Canadian Prime Minister has launched what he calls a progressive trade agenda, which will cover this theme. Canada and Iceland have proposed to bring it into the TISA negotiations. We have a trade policy in an EFTA cooperation where, unfortunately, half of the Member States are marked by an old-fashioned attitude to trade agreements. Switzerland and Liechtenstein are concerned that environmental considerations, employee rights and the role of women are a burden in the negotiations. Trade agreements shall aim at facilitating trade, reducing customs duties and removing trade barriers. The ILO, the Paris Agreement, the UN objectives will address other issues. But modern trade agreements are about something far more than reducing barriers to trade. They have more and more elements of development perspectives and partnerships, especially when negotiating with emerging economies. In addition to the purchase and sale of goods and services, it is a matter of developing markets and trading capabilities of the contracting partners. It is about helping their products meet the quality requirements of the internal market and of the world market. It is also about environmental standards for both product and work environment. Then these elements become, not protectionism in disguise, but developmental aid. If we take a woman’s perspective into account, it is not a question of requiring our partner countries to copy Norwegian gender equality policies, nor of requiring them to allow women to drive cars. It is about ensuring that there is nothing in the agreements that structurally keeps women out of economics or value chains. It is about showing good experiences and contexts, for example: the relationship between high female participation and the education of girls and women, the relationship between high female participation and parental leave and childcare services. We have development projects that show the wise management of natural resource assets, which show how to create a fair and efficient tax system. So why not a project on women and professional participation? Norway must be a clear voice in the EFTA cooperation in this area. We succeeded with the environment and employees' rights. We must also succeed with the women's perspective. I look forward to hearing the views of the new Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1089	First, thank you for the interpellation – and then thank you for the congratulations on new responsibilities. I can start by saying that I agree with the main essence of the representative, both the perspective that one of the most important driving forces behind Norway as one of the world's most prosperous countries is that we have had equality and thus have women into the labour market, and that if we are to have development, lift groups out of poverty, the women's perspective is absolutely crucial. Trade policy is an important prerequisite for the competitiveness of Norwegian labour, but it is also important to facilitate an inclusive trade policy across, among other things. sex, age and ethnicity. The inter-pellant is based on the WTO Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires in December last year on women and trade policy. It is a theme that concerns several ministries and several government councils. Nevertheless, I will try to give a picture of how this is handled in trade policy. Let me first say that equality is important for the government. In the Jeløya platform, it is established that the government will work for equality and equal opportunities for all, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, religion, disability and sexual orientation. With regard to Norway's efforts to ensure this also in our trade policy, the declaration of the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Buenos Aires is important. It is gratifying that WTO members are actively committed to contributing to the achievement of sustainability objectives 5, on gender equality. It is therefore also an important political signal that 118 members and observers in the WTO are joining forces on an initiative to increase women’s participation in trade. The declaration highlights that gender perspective is at the heart of inclusive economic growth, that inclusive trade policies can lead to improvements for women, increased growth and poverty reduction, and that women face specific barriers in business and trade. In Norway, we have an action plan on women’s rights and equality in foreign and development policy for 2016–2020. Women's economic rights and participation are one of five thematic fields of action. Furthermore, strengthening women’s economic position through increased participation in trade is an important objective for Norwegian trade-oriented development cooperation. The Ministerial Declaration of the WTO Ministerial Meeting is therefore in line with established Norwegian policy. Norway has an extensive network of free trade agreements through EFTA, and we are negotiating today with a number of important trading partners. In addition, we are also negotiating a bilateral free trade agreement with China. New issues, such as equality and trade, have been on the trade policy agenda in recent years. As the interpellant refers to, among other things, Canada and Chile included provisions on gender equality in their Free Trade Agreement. We've been studying the agreement with interest. We note that the EU's mandate for renegotiations with Chile refers to the need to have their own rules that protect women's rights. It is clear that this is a topic of increasing international attention. That's good. However, I would like to remind you that our free trade agreements do not contain provisions which in themselves lead to discrimination based on sex or other social factors. With background in, inter alia: Our discussions with Chile and Canada on the renegotiation of our free trade agreements have raised the issue of making provisions on gender equality discussed internally in EFTA. It is an EFTA issue that has not previously taken a decision, but I am pleased to announce that there is today a first EFTA meeting on this very topic here in Oslo. The EFTA Ministers have asked the experts to examine how this has been handled in agreements between other countries and to make a recommendation on how this can be reflected in the trade policy of the EFTA countries. However, it is important to be aware that free trade agreements cannot regulate all policy areas and that provisions contained in our free trade agreements should, as a general rule, be trade-related. I also perceived it as the starting point for the interpellant. Norway already includes a separate chapter on the social and environmental dimension of trade in our free trade agreements. The Chapter on Trade and Sustainable Development is presented in all EFTA negotiations and it is also decided that the theme should be addressed at meetings with partner countries where the Chapter does not form part of the Free Trade Agreement. The chapter contains, inter alia: obligations to implement and comply with the ILO conventions ratified by the countries. The Convention on the Prohibition of Discrimination in Employment and the Convention on Equal Opportunities is explicitly promoted. The government's trade policy is in continuous development. While it is necessary to adapt to the realities facing business, it is also important to reflect the values and attitudes underlying the Norwegian society. It is therefore important to assess how women's rights can best be addressed in trade policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1117	I thank you for your answer and am pleased to note that, on the Norwegian side, there is agreement between parliamentarians and the government in this field, to bring the women's perspective into our trade agreements, as a contribution not only to equality, but not least also to, together with our partners, strengthening the position of women and bringing them into working life, as an extra 'drive' to increase economic growth. It sounds exciting that today there is a meeting where you should study and look at this. I think it's important, because I think when many hear it in the first place, many crazy associations get about what to put in by demands and suggestions. This is a new field where you have to break new land. I think it is important, especially now that we are in the process of upgrading many of our old free trade agreements through EFTA, that what is now developing internationally in trade policy, otherwise in a few years' time we will be in a situation where our trade agreements have again become somewhat obsolete. I thank you for a positive response and look forward to meeting the Council of State at the next ministerial meeting, where we can once again raise this on the agenda and hopefully get a report back from ministers on how far this work has come. I would also like to point out that this empty Chamber, in a debate on trade policy, is unfortunately an expression of the alarmingly low interest in trade policy in the Grand Duchy. I think we have to try to do something about that together, because our trade agreements and our trade policy are one of the most important bases for the export industry. For example, 37 million fishmeals are produced in Norway every day — and there is a little bit to eat yourself. This is an illustration of the importance of trade for Norway, and it should also be more important for the political agenda. But at least it is not the responsibility of the Council of State. We have a common responsibility to try to raise interest in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1128	As the interpellant also confirmed, I think there's a broad consensus on the main lines here. And as I explained in my answer, the work is on this. I think we also agree on the framework within which this should take place. And as the interpellant stresses, trade agreements are not comprehensive political agreements. However, trade agreements can also highlight important values or an important value base. And we've joined the WTO, and the gender perspective is also important. Then I want to touch on two other things, because the representative mentions that there might be little interest in trade policy in Stortinget. I'm so new in the field that I can't judge that. However, there is often an interest in trade policy agreements with negative signs, i.e. larger or smaller elements of trade agreements that can often become controversial. It's also worth remembering the overall perspective, and it's that in a world where countries are shutting down and dealing less with each other, it's not just a problem for the economy of each country, but it's also a sign of the world's disease. It's probably not as simple as the French economist Bastiat said in the 1800s that if goods cross the borders, soldiers won't do it. There are enough historical examples that both goods and soldiers can cross borders. But a tendency that countries do not want to trade with each other is certainly not a sign that the world is getting better. The other side note that promises this a little further than just trade agreements is that our history as a country, also about how we have brought women into working life through both welfare schemes and cultural changes, I think is also a competitive advantage and in itself a kind of export product for Norway abroad. It is important to bear in mind that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries also has a high responsibility for profiling Norway abroad. We're not going to teach others, but the story of what we've done, among other things. on equality, and how it has also been in favour of the Norwegian economy and well-being, I think it is an export article that can make us more interesting, more relevant and also create market opportunities for Norwegian goods and enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1139	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1151	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1170	The right hand side and the progress side have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1210	There is no voting theme in the case No. Three, four, five.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-08.ana.ud453e1250	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
