ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e67	Representatives Jette F. Christensen and Ketil Kjeseth, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Renate Silver, now takes the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will present the Storting meeting today to be suspended at 0 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e102	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. The President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e115	The Labour Party prioritises people's security, legal security and social security. We have a social distribution profile in our senior government budget. The Labour Party does not use the funds of the community to give less tax to those who have the most in this country, which gives us a greater room for action, for example. prioritizing our police districts, a real investigation mission, a serious promise to the courts in our country, and a good commitment to social security, prison and freedom of movement. The Solberg government spends 1.3 million. kr on each of the thousand richest people in the country. That's money we use in the community. The Labour Party supports the proposals for strengthening emergency centres, data centres and police helicopters. The government repeats its flats in the so-called red tape reform. They don't support us. The Labour Party is opposed to flat cheese needs in the courts, the police and Norwegian prisons, and I refer this to our alternative state budget. It should be a matter of concern to the plurality of this Chamber that there are several police districts that are now notifying deputies after both the state budget and the conciliation have been presented – at a time when thousands of criminal cases, victims of crime, are in line with a demanding and unbridled police reform. The target has been 2 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. With the proposal that is going to get more than one speech today, a police district will be sending in in 2019 with a message to cut down on operations. I don't understand why the government party and the Christian People's Party got a pot of my own that would directly strengthen our police districts. The working party proposes 340 million. kr own additional means of operation to police districts. With the Progress Party in the Ministry of Justice, the cows who are victims of crime have increased. The distance between what was said by the former law-and-order party, to what happens when the Progress Party is in position, is increasing. We know that there is a burst of capacity when it comes to research, many places in the country – service places to be strengthened, almost do not stay open. In several police districts, thousands of cases are not resolved and over three months, some places several years. Aid lawyers, who are spokespersons for victims, have sent letters of concern to the Judicial Committee on Legal Security for Victims of Crime. The Minister of Justice, and even the Prime Minister, visited many of the police districts in the fall to see what the situation is like. But to the right is not the same thing as listening, and it looks like we're going to have multiples today. Last night we read in the VG that even if one has been convicted in one case and has the right to compensation for the victims, it will take several years. The Minister of Justice should be concerned that so many cows are established under this government. The government is breaking the agreement on the police reform. I want to refer to the comments we have in the setting, which do well for it. That the government in 2019 thinks that the police districts in our country are going to raise 51 million. kr in so-called profit-realization, will be met with great wonder outside. I'd like to get right from the Council of State how he thinks the police districts are going to find these money, and they're taking with them an additional consumption of about 200 million. kr from 2018 into 2019. The Labour Party would meet in 2019 in a more offensive way if it were our budget that had got more today. We propose over half a billion more to the justice sector. Our main priority is basic preparedness and research by strengthening the police districts – over 430 million. more to the police, then a criminal service to strengthen social security, and a court budget that is linked to the increase in the number of cases and that takes people's legal certainty seriously. Through our draft budget, we show that we are taking the context of the criminal chain and the legal security of peoples seriously, as opposed to the former law-and-order party, the Progress Party and their government colleagues. I take up the proposal from the Labour Party and the proposals we have with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e138	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e143	Then it was Christmas again. After all, the budget debate has become an important ingredient to get the Christmas mood up. The budget debate in the Judicial Committee tends to follow a rather familiar and loving pattern. We in the government parties are going to tell how everything goes, the opposition is going to tell how the pairs and thirty billions in the justice sector are too small in all fields, and imaginative alternative budgets are facing dry, ministerial budgets and explanations. In reality, there is one or two percent difference between government budgets and the opposition's alternative budgets, but you can very quickly get the impression that you're on two completely different planets. The justice field is a very difficult field because almost everything is measured in heads and ears. Good intentions must basically mean more money, and all savings in the field of justice are risk sports. If you are so good and lucky to save money, you are quickly produced as both cold and heartless. An increase in budget lines is quickly produced as a cut if the increase is not as high as last year's increase. I am absolutely sure that we will enter into all these well-known reasoning patterns during this debate – and do not despair or be afraid, I am absolutely sure that the positioning parties will come up with long lists of everything that is fantastically good in the budget. But at first I thought I would try to raise my eyes a little bit. After all, there is something to appreciate and rejoice about, like there is consensus in the Storting and in the Judicial Committee on the long lines of justice policy. We broadly agree on the criminal system, on a civil, bystander police, on free, independent courts, on prisons to be rehabilitated instead of breaking down, and on fundamental obligations to human rights. A consensus like this was something we might take for granted before, but when we see the world around us now, we can't do that anymore. That's what I think it's worth to enjoy. In the same spirit, I have tried to find some things that when this government took over in 2013, were challenges, and that I believe we have solved together. First of all, I believe that the police's preparedness was cancelled in 2013. Five years later, it has significantly improved – not always perfect, but significantly improved. Criminal custody had destructively long queues, now they're gone. The police were far away from the target of 2 per 1,000, now we reach that goal. The courts needed modernisation, now sound and image creation, and civil matters are being implemented digitally after a very large digitalisation reform. Then we have some challenges that in 2018 and 2019 and the future will require a lot of us. Perhaps the biggest challenge is police reform. It has the potential, but it can still fail, and it requires the efforts of all the parties in the Storting to succeed. If that reform fails, the Norwegian police will also fail. Challenge number 2 is the structure of the courts. It's out of date. If it changes and modernises, you can free up a lot of the means that I think everyone here agrees on is needed in the courts. The third challenge is that we need a police investigation promise. When we travel around the world, the research profession is always of high status. It is very strange that in Norway it is no longer like this. The explanation doesn't have to be that complicated, and the solution doesn't have to be that expensive. Here we simply need good action and good ideas across the board in order to re-establish the status of the investigation. Is there anything that is certain when we look at the crime scene of the future, is that we need the very best of the best to become detectives in the police. Challenge number 4 is how our otherwise good legal system has not managed to find a solution to deal with young repeat criminals. It's a big challenge, and I want to pay tribute to the opposition, especially Jan Bøhler. Today, proposals have been made by the Central Party at Emilie Enger Mehl that are exciting and that take many of the challenges. Although the budgetary debate is not the place to adopt such proposals, I believe that there are discussions and decisions that should be very topical in the coming period. The last challenge I want to mention is how we can deal with the explosive increase in online assault cases. I think it scares the minds of us as we travel around the world and see the scope of this and perceive it in Norway as well. We're going to solve this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e166	Today we were able to wake up to the news that the Progress Party could no longer call itself the ‘law-and-order party’, and that the Stortinget will today adopt a budget for justice that weakens legal certainty. The Progress Party ‘does not have the capacity to take care of the basic structure of the police. It is the person responsible for ensuring security in this country’, said the chairman of the Committee of Justice, the representative of the Member State of Vagslid, to NTB. These are very strong claims made by the head of the Justice Committee. I would like to refer to a few headlines from newspaper headlines: The police solve too few cases, 104 000 cases are in line Police Crisis Affects Investigation Police don't reach their own goals. Make Your Own Crisis Preparedness Police are out of resources. 220 years of police work disappeared Kine was dreaming about police work. Instead, she sells kitchen equipment. The police's resource shortage is real. In Rome’s police district, 5,500 things are waiting. 60 serious assault cases pending in Trondheim This is a major police crisis in the country. I can see that several representatives no longer recognize this, but I just want to inform you that this is a lookup from 2008 to 2013. Why do I take the time to read this out? Well, to make it visible that using words like that next year's Justice Budget is a provocation and will weaken legal certainty, is not a believer. For the Progress Party, legal certainty for the inhabitants of this country has always been a key element of our policies, both in opposition and in government. I'm proud of what we've been able to do in the field of justice over the five years of government, but we're not on target. We are also aware that the police are in a very demanding reform, but we must not forget that the Stortinge adopted the reform in 2016 and that many police districts have just put it to work. The crime scene has changed, and much of the resources go to data centres and concrete, as the committee calls it. This is also money that goes to ensure the safety of the citizens. There are about 2,600 more paid annuals in the police since 2013 and about 1,500 more paid police annuals since 2013. That's $1.8. kr for posts in the police since 2013. The balances have fallen, and the percentage of information has increased. When I returned to Stortinget in January, I felt that the politicians were talking about the police reform as something negative. Fortunately, after having visited the police district, I have received a completely different impression. The police reform is intrusive and absolutely necessary to meet tomorrow's crime, but it is demanding. In November, I visited the South-West police district and had the pleasure of attending the police meeting with all the rapporteurs. I was in favour of criticism, but could still rejoice with praise from the satisfied rapporteurs who could report a close and good dialogue with the police and a visible police in their municipality. As I have said, the reform work is demanding, but we also need to see – and see – that there is a lot going right. The criminal chain is intertwined. I feel that this government is taking it seriously. If the police solve their cases, the courts must be able to do their work, and the criminal authorities must be able to accept those who are going to make their judgment. The courts have challenges, especially with increasingly heavy and complex cases. The budget of the courts will be increased next year. We have launched several measures to improve the use of resources in Norwegian courts relating to digitisation, structure and legislation. The digitisation effort of the times is now in place in Norwegian courts. The benefits of both the liquidation of the jury system and the digitisation of the courts are a gain they receive. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the government together with the Christian People's Party has managed to get an increase of 10 million. kr. We know that we will be doing well both to strengthen and improve the courts, to increase capacity and to improve the procedure. Today we shall adopt next year's budget. It is a budget for justice that will strengthen the justice sector and ensure the security of its citizens. It's a justice budget that pays attention to the police, the courts and the criminal justice system. It's a budget that follows up both object protection and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e223	It is a main task for the state to provide safe citizens in a secure society. In contrast to the representative Horne, I will begin by quoting some headlines from the last half of 2018: «Trusted Police: Crisis throughout the country» – Evening post 17 July ‘Police fears mass redundancies’ – NRK 23 November ‘The government proposes to put down seven prisons. – The State budget is a crisis for employees, says top-level trustee” – Free Trade Movement 8 October ‘Crise in the Courts – Deployed in 2019’ – Parat24 26 September When both the police, the courts and the criminal services at the same time report a crisis, the Center Party believes it is time to be concerned. At the top of it all, the government has failed in terms of terror protection, which recently led to the Storting voting over a motion of censure against the government, a motion of censure that fell by the margin of few votes. In order for Norway to function, we need a balanced legal system. Police, courts and criminal justice must be seen in the context. We have to be able to trust that the police can work to prevent and investigate crime, that we can get our cases up to court, and that criminal services can perform good rehabilitation when the punishment is to be curtailed. The Central Party proposes strengthening the entire criminal chain through police, prosecution, courts and criminal justice. We're proposing to give 0.5 billion. more to the police districts. We've got 51 million bets. to the courts. We have proposed 60 million. kr to maintain prisons the government proposes to lay down, and 50 million. to improve the conditions of mental illness in prisons. The Central Party wants a police officer who is visible and present where people live. That is why we are opposed to the centralising reform that the government is now implementing. On 2 December, several rapporteurs from various police districts went out and told the NRK that they refused to sign cooperation agreements with the police, because they thought the police presence was too bad after the police reform, and that the citizens cannot trust that the police are there when they need them. While both the use of consultants and the growth of the Police Directorate have increased dramatically in recent years, more and more police districts face major economic challenges. Trust elected members of the Joint Police Association are quite clear that the 2019 state budget will lead to depopulation in all police districts. In the last year, we have already heard of high levels of labour pressure and long chainsaws. It has also emerged that, among other things: serious cases remain with the police for a long time. In an inspection report of the State Attorney General, the following is stated about the More and Romesdal police districts: ‘Pr. Today, the police district has fewer investigators than before the reorganisation.» It is shown, among others: to a case of violence in close relations where the questioning of suspects had still not taken place after 566 days. Dispute resolution and criminal prosecution brought before the courts are also central to the judicial system. Everyone has the right to bring civil disputes before the courts. In addition, courts must have the capacity to settle criminal cases in a thorough and secure manner and within a reasonable time. But the courts are now cut to the bone. Half of the courts are unable to meet statutory time limits for proceedings. None of the lawmen's rights can do that. In civil matters, it can take up to two years from anchoring a case, until the case comes to the court of law. In criminal matters, the consequence of long proceedings is often that the accused receive a penalty discount. For insults, it is a great impression to have to wait months for the matter to be dealt with. We also have an important principle in Norway that we are innocent until the opposite is proven. Being charged with criminal proceedings for months before the case is settled is also a heavy burden. Low staffing threatens the security of those at work — and the follow-up of prisoners — in criminal custody. Penalties should be rehabilitating to prevent criminals from committing new crimes when they leave prison, but now rehabilitation is down to a minimum. In 2017, the Director of the Directorate of Public Health said: ‘It appears that the very strained budgetary situation for 2018 is developing to become almost unmanageable.’ It hasn't improved since then. It puts legal certainty in games. The centre party believes it is time to take the signals seriously and stop the cuts in the justice sector. I'd like to take up with it the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e270	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e275	Before I start my main post, I want to make a personal statement of sympathy to the Minister of Justice. A little over a week ago, his car and home were ramped, and hopefully I have the whole political Norway behind me when I say that we take a great distance from using that kind of method to try to shut down the Minister of Justice's remarks. I also want to commend him for not even trying to score some cheap political points on this. Rather, on the contrary: he responded very in principle and said that this was an attack on democracy. It's very nice. He just gets to accept it, because now it's a little bit different! We are now dealing with a budget that is prepared and prepared in advance. That's about. 39 B.C.E. kr. The opposition is essentially asking for more money for criminal care, court, police and investigation into cases where women are mainly victims. We want 'given-or-take' from the opposition 500-600 million. kr more. We don't get this. In the Norwegian state budget, it's actually smoldering there's questions about us. The overall requirements of the opposition will be a couple of hundred metres of highway, and there will be a couple of aeroplane wings on one of the new F-35 aeroplanes. The most expensive motorway in Norway costs $3.5 billion. kr per kilometer. So there's pretty little money we're asking about. That is why I believe this is not about money, it is about something completely different. It's about ideological directions. We see a development across Europe where justice policy is where perhaps the strongest polarized ideological differences are now seen. It's driven by outer-right parties and movements across Europe that challenge past old divisions that people have been occupied with. The budget for justice we are discussing today is also marked by the fact that the Progress Party has been in government and has been in charge for five years. Let me give nine points that illustrate what I think is an ideological direction that takes us the wrong way: We have had a colder and more unfair and irreconcilable asylum and refugee policy. The border is almost closed, and we get reports that people are starving on asylum reception. We have received a wish from politicians on the right about longer sentences. We've got the introduction of tougher bonding. It's been cut in criminal custody, which leads to tougher settlements. We see less willingness to look at social conditions that lie behind crime, especially in the area of childhood and juvenile delinquency. They call for prison, but not necessarily for prevention and a glance at the poverty in which many of these young people have grown up. There have been more weapons given to the police during the period. At the same time as crime in Norway has fallen, more weapons have been given. And then maybe some of what I personally am most upset about: a denial of the most extensive crime, violence against and rape of women. Outer right in Europe has never engaged in cases where women are victims. Then there has been an eagerness to construct Norway, and especially Oslo, as dangerous and insecure. We have a representative from the Progress Party in the Chamber who has been eager to do so. And while we know that it's not true, we're going to continue this story. In the field of justice policy, there has also been a desire for a more national right of self-determination to commit to international conventions. A far more shameless rhetoric with terms such as ‘monsters’, ‘terrorists’, ‘dangerous young people’, ‘Swedish states’, etc. These are quite new things. In some cases, the different budget lines don't necessarily take Norway in some special direction, but it's the sum of this that illustrates an ideological difference, that's the sum of this that illustrates a direction. I know that this does not necessarily resonate with any of the representatives from the Right in the Chamber – nor are they the ones who are driving this forward. But they're actually looking at it and seeing that justice policy in Norway is getting more polarized and is getting a kind of European characteristic that's pretty gloomy. It is the Right and the Prime Minister who have let justice policy go in that direction, and it is those who must also take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e318	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e323	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e329	The representative Petter Eide then addressed the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e334	It is good to be able to launch debates on justice that describe a society that is safe and a cross-political will to create an even safer society. It's the main task as politicians. The alternative budget of the Christian People's Party is a clear commitment to justice policy, but it is also a clear commitment to a safer society. Then one not only discusses the justice budget, because there is so much to be done in the other committees to prevent one from spending more money whether it is on the police, the courts or criminal justice. The Christian People's Party has had a clear priority over a longer period of time. Lifting up the prevention and control of violence and abuse against children and combating trafficking in human beings has been two specific keywords. It upsets me that one in five children is subjected to violence or abuse, and that one in ten girls may say that within 18 years, they have experienced sexual abuse. It's scary numbers, and it should get us all to work even harder to prevent even more to make sure these kids don't get exposed to such terrible things. That is why we have had a clear commitment to that field over a longer period of time. Also in the agreement that lies here, the effort to combat violence and assault has been lifted, not just on the Justice budget. Well, there are several health sisters and midwives, who can come in and detect violence and abuse at a very early stage, and the other measures, whether in the family field or in the health field. In the budget agreement itself, we have had a budget of 80 million. Mr President, I should like to add a few words on the budget, and we are pleased about that. But I also think it's nice to produce statistics, because since 2013, there have been 2,700 more police annuals, 1,600 more police year-olds. The police coverage has gone from 1.71 to 1.92, and we're close to reaching the target we all agree on, with two per thousand in 2020. There has been a huge change in this field over a long time. We can enjoy fewer reviews, fewer stays, more clarification. At the same time, we also know that crime has become more complicated, it is more demanding to investigate. In the field I mention, which we have given special priority to, related to violence and assault, we know that the percentage of intelligence, whether it's on rape, assault or violence, is too low. It's been going on for an extremely long time. I remember that one of my first questions when I came into the Stortinget in 2009 was associated with a long waiting time at the children's home, how long it took before a child was questioned. Fortunately, the waiting times have been greatly reduced today, but the number of children in questioning in children’s homes has increased extremely. I think it's not just about the fact that there are more people who are exposed to violence or abuse, but about the cross-political struggle that has contributed to the emergence of several of these issues. But there is no doubt that the major challenge is also linked to the Internet and to the simple way it is to abuse children. That is why I believe that this field must also be given priority in the future in order to avoid child abuse. This budget, adopted today, is also a good budget for preparedness. We're going to spend almost 1 billion on the Emergency Response Centre. kr in 2019, and it is a big bet. It allows it to be completed by 2020, and it will improve the situation for the police. And finally, there are three new police helicopters – 260 million. kr. It has been wanted over a long time – next year they will be purchased. Reciprocal crime is a number of things that have been going on. There we all know that we have great challenges. I'm glad that the separate funds amounting to $30 million. kr to Oslo south is continued, and also for putting in 50 million. kr extra in 2019 to strengthen efforts. But there too is prevention, the effort made at the earlier stage, which is one of the most important things we can do. I would also like to highlight the commitment to the crime of working life. We now have seven centers. The next year's increase is 20 million. kr. It is important to take criminal networks, it is important to prevent social dumping and, in the worst cases, trafficking in human beings, but it is also important to help the serious actors. In criminal custody, it's a pleasure that you're increasing EK, electronic control, and penance, and that we're getting the seats built up. So far, 255 spaces have been built, and more than 300 are waiting in Agder. But there I am particularly concerned that we can work more to improve the content of the ransom, because we know that it gets tougher when more people are taken out on the EK and the penalty zone. Overall, it is a good budget to secure Norway even more in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e359	I think a total increase can agree on the purpose of the justice policy, that it is to have the lowest possible crime, that those who commit crime are taken for it, that they get a quick settlement, and that, after a settlement, they can come back to society without committing any new crime. I think there'll be an overall consensus on that in the hall. Then we will have different instruments for how we want to achieve this goal, but if we are to have the lowest possible crime, I don't think we're going to miss out on prevention efforts, and in particular prevention among children and young people. I have noted that a colleague of the government from another party has talked about prisons for children. I believe that is the wrong step to take. In the media you can see that 15-year-olds are defined as hard-boiled criminals, and then you think very quickly that then we have to have prisons for these. Then I don't think you're considering having these in prison, there'll be some 14-year-olds who'll be next 15, so there'll be some 13-year-olds growing up. Putting some 15-year-olds in prison will not help prevent the next generation. There is quite a lot of work to be done. One of the things I think it's important to do in the field of justice is to look at the risk factors. What are the causes of crime? Why do children and young people become criminals? I don't think any children, when they're young, dream of growing up and becoming a criminal, "joine" Hells Angels or Bandidos – two of the most hard-boiled criminal gangs we have in Norway. We hear about the Young Bloods at Holmlia, but then we forget the most hard-bombed. But there's no five or six-year-old who thinks: I'm going to grow up and become a member of the B's or the A's. Something happens from there until they become 15–16 – it's called risk factors. We have known criminological research, the most famous criminologists are Norwegian – Nils Christie, he has now passed away, and Thomas Mathiesen. Legal sociologists and criminologists have done a lot of research into what causes children to become criminals. Look at the parents. The main reason is parents who have low education, who are not at work, who like to use violence in their assignment. When children are turned off, their ability to learn is impaired, they have concentration challenges. A well-known sentence is: Violence cultivates violence. In the field of justice, I think we are wise to focus on the risk factors and to help children grow up well where they are. All of us who have visited schools know that when we talk to the teachers, they can point out some students in the schoolyard. Teachers do not necessarily impair their privacy, but they know very well which of the children have challenges — and that already in high school. Those kids start doing a little more serious things in high school and eventually become criminals. We have to assume that we from children are already very young, know who is at risk of becoming criminals later. If we correct the effort there, we're going to be able to prevent much more. I also want to raise another topic, and it's violence in close relationships. It is an ugly crime that affects people in families – it is violence against children, but also against spouses, women who are beaten by their husbands. We know that here is the great, great darkness. In minority settings in particular, we have some additional dimensions, and this is something that the Minister of Justice has recently highlighted: gender mutilation. But we also have coercion. One is the direct coercion, where children are physically forced to marry. But you also have the marriages where there is a high degree of mental coercion, a expectation that you should just follow your parents. I think that part of the grips we've taken helps to build down these social stigmas that relate to having freedom. Promoting measures against negative social control is one way of moving forward in minority settings. I saw the Minister of Justice visiting Born Free. We in the Left are very proud that we were able to establish it in the last period. It has also been strengthened this time. There are also many other organisations working against, for example: radicalisation; one of them is Minority Policy Thinking Tank. I think that a lot of this we in the government parties agree on needing a bigger boost. I see that the government is doing a very good job in this area, and I'm sure we're going to meet the objective, which is just to contribute to society having the lowest possible crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e380	Security in the everyday life of the individual is the top priority of the government. The government is therefore actively working to combat crime and closely monitor the development of crime. In a safe society, social security and preparedness shall always be a priority. This also reflects the budget for the justice sector. This budget shows that the government is making a major effort to improve object protection. It is not only a question of appropriations but also of having sufficient access to professionals with a high level of competence and security clearance to work on the projects. This challenge has probably been underestimated in previous phases. We have proposed to increase the allocation of property protection by NOK 188.5 million. This will ensure that multiple shielding features in the police and the PST are secured. Plus 148 is going to be million. kr to secure data halls for the justice sector. Nevertheless, there will be a considerable amount of work left before the basic protection of police guards is at a satisfactory level. This work must therefore continue over the next few years. The government has also proposed to allocate 865 million. to work with a new police emergency centre. The work will be done as planned and the Centre will be completed by 2020. This will help to enhance overall preparedness, but also to ensure multiple displayable objects. Object protection is not just protection of physical installations and construction. A clear overweight of the shielding objects is ICT objects, where the shielding function depends on ICT infrastructure. ICT security is therefore very central to object security work. The government is proposing to increase PST by 25 million. kr for the handling of cybertruscans. I'm also going to take 10 million. kr to increase the capacity of the national safety authority to conduct intrusion tests. In addition, as part of the ICT security effort, the government allocates funds to strengthen research and development – 5 million. kr to strengthen the research competence in cryptology with increased basic funding for Simula at the University of Bergen, 10 million. kr to strengthen the field of activity A secure information society in the IKTPLUSS Research Council and 7 million. kr more for research on digital security in the SAMRISK programme. The police are implementing a major and comprehensive reform. The close police reform was adopted in 2015 and the structural part of the reform was completed in June 2018. The new organisational structure facilitates better performance and improved quality of service. However, the government sees the need to strengthen police in some areas. The target of 2 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants in 2020 is set. As of 30 September 2018, there are 1.92 police officers per 1 000 residents on a national basis. By comparison, the figure was 1.71 at the end of 2013. In 2019, the government proposes to strengthen the police by 50 million. kr to facilitate further graduates from the Swedish Police College, who can be employed in the last quarter of 2019. It will have a combined annual impact of 200 million. kr. Youth crime has been a challenge, especially in Oslo. That is why the government is proposing a 50 million bet. kr. The initiative includes child protection, the police and the conflict councils. The trial period in the courts has had a negative development. This trend must be reversed. The Courts are streamlined through digitisation and more effective organisation. The government proposes to continue the investment in digital courts by $40 million. kr. In addition, the government proposes 13 million. to technical equipment in courts in order to ensure more efficient and stable operation. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, the courts were strengthened by another 10 million. kr to reduce the length of proceedings. In addition, the government is also proposing $8 million. to investigate in Borgarting the rights of a member of the team, who has had a very long trial period. The reconciliation capacity today is satisfactory. The government has strengthened the capacity, and the settlement queues we saw in 2013 are almost closed. Nevertheless, there is a need to restructure criminal services in order to adapt the structure to the needs of the future. Increased use of criminal sanctions with electronic control has helped to reduce the need for lower levels of security prisons, but no action has been taken to adapt capacity to the needs. The resources of criminal services must be used as efficiently as possible, and it is therefore necessary to reduce the real overcapacity of sites with a lower level of security, corresponding to approximately. 250 places. The largest investment in 2019 is the further expansion and establishment of new prison in Agder. In 2019 it is set at 308 million. kr for the purpose. In addition, I would like to refer to the budget agreement with the Christian People's Party, where it is set at 10 million. to strengthen the staffing and content of criminal services. There are major demands for the justice sector, and there are still unmet needs in both police, criminal justice, justice and preparedness in general, but the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has made a good budget for the justice sector for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e413	It is estimated that the Norwegian police districts will need an additional consumption of about 200 million. kr in 2019. At the same time, it is clear that, with the budget that is being allocated to a number of countries today, there are additional cuts for the police districts. More police districts are notifying of downsizing, and in the same fiscal year my Minister of Justice and the Government Party, together with the Christian People's Party, are bringing the police districts out 51 million. kr in what they call profit-realization, as a result of the police reform. Where and how are the police districts going to get these funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e420	We need to look at the police's appropriations over time. In total, during the period this government has been sitting, the police have received 4.3 billion. SEK in additional appropriations, of which SEK 3,1 billion. kr is the operating budget. This budget also provides for a further increase in the recruitment of more police officers, about a quarter of them. 180. In addition, over the last year alone, we've had 300 more employees in the police sector. Of course, the police – like most others – are also involved in the ABE reform, but it represents less than the police have recovered as a result of the ABE reform giving increased room for action. The net capacity of the police to act has increased during these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e425	I notice that I usually get answers that are about ‘over time’, but one cannot actually eat in the long term, one must eat every day. It also applies to the police districts. They are in a situation that is quite critical, but I feel that the Minister of Justice does not recognise at all. In the past, maybe the Progress Party could have called itself a law-and-order party, but I think one has completely abdicated when it comes to that question. Previously, the Progress Party believed that one was on the victim's side, and now we see that the victim of crime is in long queue. Persons reporting e.g. police selected, now waiting for several years for any clarification. Why does the Minister of Justice not ensure that the police districts, not the Police Directorate or others, are able to actually bring down the cows in which the victims are and to strengthen the research capacity properly, as one could do in the draft budget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e432	I think it might be useful to break down some myths about where police positions end up. During the last year, from the end of 2017 until today, when 300 new posts have been assigned to the police, 250 of them have come to the police districts. That someone hasn't been in the police districts doesn't mean they've ended up in the directorate. We also have something called the PST, the Kripos and the U.S. Police Department. It's a myth that all the positions are in the directorate. It is in any case – and I think this is very important to remember – that all jobs are done over time. We're in the middle of a police reform, and I mean in the middle of it. I understand that for the Stortinget, who adopted the police reform in 2015, it seems a while ago, but the police districts have implemented the reform this year. That means we have to let it get a little bit of time to work. Despite this, the percentage of clarification is higher than when the Labour Party sat with the Minister of Justice, and the balance has declined compared to when the Labour Party sat with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e439	It helps very little for those who have our victims of sentencing or other types of crime, what history might look like. The reality of them is exactly the same. I notice that the representative Frölich and others point out that there is almost no difference between the government's budget and the proposals for the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – perhaps 2 pst. in contrast to what we are proposing here today. If this is so little money with so much meaning for victims of crime and for those who are going to run the basic emergency services in the country, why does one not just agree to support the proposals we have made today, about increasing the level of commitment to the police districts for a real investigation promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e444	I record that the opposition policy of the Workers' Party consists of adding 2 pst. of the government that it may propose at any time, regardless of what is necessary. What's important is that the crime scene has changed a lot. In the case of a good deal of crime, it's quite right, as some people point out, that crime goes down. But we've had an explosive growth in some areas, especially related to sexual law offences and child abuse. These areas are also the areas where cows have been given – not because they have not been given priority, not because those areas have lost resources, but because the police reform actually works. We're discovering much more crime than before. The fact that you're uncovering something also makes more people dare to stand up. But some of these things can be very demanding. In one police district, there are more than 700 insults, and it consumes a lot of capacity, which I hope will improve gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e452	The Oslo police have said that they have a strong need for greater investigation capacity on recrime. In Northern Lights on 14 December, the State Attorney pointed to the structural changes in the Trom police district and said that ‘the reform has weakened the quality of research’. The local team leader of the Norwegian Police Team in More and Romesdal recently stated: ‘In the case of research, the close police reform has led to a deterioration.’ The lack of investigators seems to be an ongoing problem in Police-Norway. Things accumulate themselves for serious crime like rape. In the view of the Centre Party, this is in the process of developing into a serious legal security problem. What will the Council of State do to ensure that after the police reform and with the 2019 budget, there is sufficient investigation capacity in the police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e464	Let me remind you that we are in the implementation phase of the police reform now. The police reform is being implemented this year. Most structural measures were implemented only a few months ago. That means it's too early to pass judgment on the police reform. I can say so far for my part that I am absolutely sure that we would have been better off if we had implemented the reform in the past. This is the answer to just the new type of crime that requires a different focus and expertise, in particular related to sexual offences, related to some international work-life crime, related to online abuse, where we need police officers who control online crime in a different way from what you could have done in the past. I also wish we could get back in the 1970s, as everything was better, quieter, more peaceful and calmer, but unfortunately we can't. Society has changed, crime has changed, and the police too have to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e473	I'm going to continue where the previous replicator left off. In Norway, according to a chronicle in the class struggle today, it is announced, approx. 20,000 rapes a year, 2,000 of them are reported. Of this extent, rapes are reported to have been committed. 0.6 pst. a conviction. The police also report that there is a lack of investigation capacity on rape. Similarly, large numbers are also for family violence. SV has proposed dedicated earmarked resources for the investigation of rape and family violence. We have also invited the Minister of Justice to discuss special governance mechanisms to ensure the investigation by the police – similar to that used in the field of the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police. What is the Minister of Justice's brief answer to why he does not want to earmark and direct the police more towards investigating these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e482	If there's one thing I've experienced after visiting the police districts, it's that the situation varies from police districts to police districts, and over time within the same year, because you can get big issues that consume a lot of capacity. The classic example is where two perpetrators stand for 700 insults. Then there may be a period of need to reorganize resources for the type of crime you face. That's why I'm a little restrained by earmarking too much, because we have to give the police officers room for action to deal with crime, which changes over time. And that's anyway -- I think I agree with that -- that rape and sexual law offences, which have increased explosively in recent years, are something we need to focus a lot more on, and resources need to be spent on it. Therefore, there will also be a separate action plan on rape during spring 2019. We also have a separate escalation plan against violence and abuse – as the representative is sure to know – that is being implemented in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e487	I would like to refer to the framework decisions, i.e. the proposals for Decision XV, which are aimed at improving the compensation of victims of violence in readmission cases. It refers in particular to a proposal for a representative to refer to the Kristin case. There was one case we dealt with earlier in this year, and the Stortinget decided that one in connection with the follow-up of NOU 2016: 9 ensures that ‘the compensation scheme includes victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases’. In the government budget, the ministry mentions it as one of many important themes that the ministry is working on, but that work is time consuming. This is a very important field, especially for those victims of violence who experience that they are waiting a long time for compensation. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether the follow-up to the NOU is a matter of high priority, whether they can soon bring that matter to the Stortinget, or whether it is necessary for the Stortinget to take a new decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e494	We will come to Stortinget with this assessment. There are two challenges related to victims of violence. One is the rule changes the representative is asking for, and I think that's all there is to look at. The second is the capacity question. Right now we have a situation with a capacity challenge in the victim's office. The procedure is too long, and we have asked for funds to be earmarked for five–six lawyers to try to get rid of that balance. It's in many ways priority one now. When we just do that, of course, we're going to have to look at the request decision that the Storting has made, and the changes in the rules. It's a little complicated because we still want to follow the principle that it's the person who's done the damage, who's supposed to be responsible for the compensation, and that the state's responsibility comes in when it doesn't work. It's a little bit complicated, but we want to follow it up, and we're going back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e501	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e506	The working party wants safe societies – where you and I can live a free life, and where the community is strong enough to stand up for those who need it the most. Then there's a lot of pieces that have to fall in place, and the justice field obviously plays an important role. It's e.g. crucial to our society, the way in which we deal with our convictions. We know that nothing grows on rock floor. Crime doesn't grow by itself either. In my meeting with people who are in prison, I see a path of tracks that has made him or she just fell outside. But if you break the law, society has to react. We can't accept crime. Then it is through thorough and long-term work, through rehabilitation done by professionals, that we prevent new criminal acts. We are lucky in this country, because we have just these professionals, we have the best criminal care in the world – the world actually looks to us. The last example came this Friday, when Netflix’s series on prisons around the world devoted an entire episode to Halden Prison and the good work done there. We can be proud of this. But instead of cheering on this culture, instead of strengthening the criminal code, this government chooses to build it down. They visit the prisons, and they boast of how it works, then go to the office and put the same prisons down. The Labour Party wants a diversity of prisons so that skilled professionals can rehabilitate and work with prisoners in settings that have been provided for this very purpose. The open prisons are rehabilitation machines. In these prisons, the good neighbors deliver to us every day. However, now that the right-wing government is trying to save money on welfare and services, these prisons are laying down with an excuse that prisoners can zone with footlinks, that prisons are empty, and that the queues have become so low, this is not correct. It is not that because the Right Party and the Advance Party are in government, the population has now stopped committing criminal acts. It is true that the cows have moved from prisons to police, prosecutions, and courts. It is such that ordinary people are now standing in Progress Party cows and waiting to get their case up – while the robbers get a penalty discount. Nor is it true that everyone who son of these detainees can zone with footlinks, and it's not that all of these prisons are very uneconomical. The most expensive thing about this budget proposal is that people end up being as criminal when they leave prison as they were when they came in. And it's true that the right government's cheese skills go beyond the first line in prison – whether the government's representatives like it or not. I allow myself to ask if the Council of State can argue why he wants to put down Bruvoll prison, which has recently been upgraded for about 17 million. kr. How does he think that over 50 pst? of those who are sons of the Court prison, are to take care of themselves when they are unable to zone with a link? And what does he think about the fact that about the whole of Scotland has signed that they want to keep Hassel's prison – with the Right-Rapporteur in the head. How does he think that the women at Osterøy prison and Sandefjord prison should be able to have contact with their families and their local environment when the right-wing government will now send them across the county border after the county border to make their judgment? I wonder if the Right, with its cooperation parties, has thought about how the 175 who are now losing the job will be able to meet Christmas with a hope that they will also be able to contribute to criminal care in addition to the new year, even if the job is lost. Have these batches ensured that there is sufficient operational means to ensure decent staff conversion? And I wonder how the Christian People's Party, with a beating heart for people and families, can accept proposals that are now going to Americanize Norwegian criminal care, which goes away from rehabilitation and into custody. The Labour Party calls for a value debate on what kind of criminal care we want to have in Norway in the future – so that we can still say that we are a society where the community is strong, where people live safe and free lives, and where we treat our convicted people so that individuals, families and neighbors can live good lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e529	The heirs of the red-green government have been demanding also in criminal custody. After eight years when the red-green parties were unable to take hold, the result was the decay of prison buildings – so crazy that departments had to be shut down. Several departments were simply health professionals for both adding and inserting. Maintenance was prioritised away to have high coatings so that the nesting cows would go down. The cows for the domfields counted 1,200 in 2013. Capacity utilisation was 97 pst. in prison with high security and 95 pst. in open prison, and there was only one average. In several regions, the coating was even higher. In addition, decorate the red-green government of the cows by letting the insert go free before the sentence was finished. As if not enough, the level of activity in prison was only 77 pst. in 2013. Today it's 81 pst. However, it should be said that the red-green government, if not otherwise, managed to deliver a needs analysis and a capacity plan for new prison sites before they left, with clear notice to the new government to follow up. In other words, they left the dishes — often otherwise. Many have been doing so since 2013, but not without opposition protests. Once we have taken the necessary measures, such as: renting accommodation in the Netherlands, the criticism has been eye-catching. Creating room to address the maintenance challenges by taking down the coating here at home was not popular. One might wonder how to rehabilitate our prisons with a covering of almost 100 pst. The agreement with the Netherlands provided for the possibility to close some departments for a period of time to clean up. While one has been maintaining for 950 million. kr, they have introduced the zone of the sentence and have not escaped into society before time, as the red-green solution was. Ein has carried out actions at both Ila, Ullersmo, Bergen, Trondheim and Eidsberg. Now there are new Agder prisons under entry. In addition, Arendal Prison, Department Evje, is transformed into a new, modern prison for women. There are still large maintenance runs, but today the situation is still quite different. The agreement with the Netherlands is terminated, the settlement queues are gone, and the prison coating is 88 pst. At the open prisons, the coating is only 86 pst. This now provides room for the resolution of less preliminary open prisons. The six prisons in question have suggested that they drop out of professional advice from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, which has made assessments of content, operating costs, building conditions and forecasts for each of the countries where there is the greatest surplus in open areas. I have a great deal of understanding and respect for the reaction to these closures. Additions are happy in their workplaces and do an invaluable job to give them the opportunity to come back to their neighbourhoods after ending reconciliation as better citizens. At the same time, it is also our duty to take the difficult decisions. Keeping up the operation of 250 empty properties will cost 40 million. kr. Major rehabilitation costs for these prisons will be added. I would also like to point out that even though we are now terminating the proposed prisons, it is significant for a future capacity utilisation of 90 p.p., in line with the objective. Criminal services have had a budget increase of 1 billion. kr and has increased the budget frame every year since the blue government took over. It is natural to increase the effort when the cows are long, but it should also be just as natural to reduce the cost when the cows are laid off, and we have a large excess of capacity in prison. This option allows larger action spaces to be drawn around the content of the zone. Everything wasn't better before, but it's clear that there's still a lot to tackle. We're a long way from the goal, but we've started a process that will in the long run strengthen the criminal justice system and make it even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e554	One question that I think we have given too little attention to in the field of justice policy is the security of our civilian population in the new threat we have in the world. We know that civilians are now much more regarded as attacking targets to cause panic in a state to paralyze a government. This applies both to terrorist organisations and to countries that use terrorism as a method of war and plan for it. This also applies to large potential accidents, such as: nuclear accidents in neighbouring countries or accidents involving nuclear submarines, etc. I think we've focused too little on protecting the civilian population. A brochure was sent from DSB to all the inhabitants of the country – it probably went out 14 days ago or more, slightly varying from state to state. It's a very good brochure where we're made aware of how to get ready in our homes. There are many things that can look difficult if you live in a block apartment. For example, we're going to have a gas or kerosene oven, a lot of woodpeckers, etc. In the case of drinks, we're going to have three times three liters, i.e. for three days, nine liters per person. We need food storage and iodine tablets – it seems pretty good. It's a large and sensible list that makes us obs on standby. That list and that brochure tell us at the same time that the authorities believe that such things can happen, that we have to be prepared for it. So the big question is, what does the public do about it, and what do we do here on the Storting with it? Then, under the Civil Protection Act, which was renewed in 2010, our commitment is that the population should have access to shelter. When DSB – the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness – reviewed the situation of shelters in 2016 and provided a draft investigation to the Ministry, it was alarming. It says that almost none of the people responsible for most of the private shelters know that they have that responsibility, and they don't know what the shelters should be equipped with. It says that there is no security force to open the shelters, set them on, etc. No upgrade has been performed. There is a checklist - a check report for how the shelters in the country should look. There shall be war ventilation against the new threats such as gases, viruses, radioactivity, etc. They're supposed to be emergency units. There must be certain types of locks to close this out. There shall be stocks of water and food, etc. There is a large checklist that there is hardly a single shelter in the country that will take place, as far as I know. One can just look down in the basement of Stortinget here and look at Stortingen's shelter. If you go down into the gym, you'll see a heavy iron door that's like the shelters of the residence laws of the 1950s and 1960s. There is no upgraded form of shelter, nor for the country's upper assembly, in the event of that kind of event at the Oslo Centre. We spend enough money on Stortinget in terms of security for other purposes, but this has been very downgraded, in my opinion. There is a free-buying scheme, and there is even a provision for it. From 1998 there was no obligation to build shelters in all new buildings and facilities, so 130 million have been set aside. kr, which is unused, for the upgrade of our shelters. It's actually a mystery that we haven't started off from the government, departments and the Storting to make sure that these funds are used and that action is taken. It is primarily private that is responsible for this, and it is not the great expense to have these supervision and to impose on the private what is to be done. Then there's some expenditure on the public shelters, but there's 130 million unused. I'm not sure if there's a system to charge for the release funds, which would have been required since 1998, each time there are new buildings being built, and there's no shelter there. The majority of the Judicial Committee has made a proposal that we are going to consider today, asking the government to present during 2019 a plan to ensure that the civilian population's refuge rooms are updated in line with the new threat picture that has emerged, and to follow up the concept investigation that DSB came with as early as 2016 and with which nothing has yet been done. There is not a single word on it in the budget. We are disappointed with that, and we hope that we can have a majority in favour of our proposal here today. We have also proposed 30 million. kr more to the DSB to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e569	In this budget, the government continues to strengthen the work on youth and recriminal crime in Oslo. Already in the spring it was given 30 million. This effort will continue until next year, together with a strengthening of the Councils of Conflict. Oslo can with the recent bet signage with a total of 80 dedicated preventers. By comparison, a big city like Malmö has only 20 similar preventers. In addition, there is an area pledge, because we know that the police alone are unable to combat this type of crime. Recreational activities are a type of crime that needs to be addressed in both the short and the long term. In the long term, schools, other municipal measures, volunteers and residents in an area are very important. When the Justice Committee was visiting the Oslo police district a few weeks ago, the head of the geographical holding East, John Roger Lund, said that the most important measure to combat recriminalism in the east of Oslo is that neighbors start talking to each other over the fence. Similarly, the police have to get out of their cars, and they have to talk to the audience and be actively on the lookout. That's what happens now with the dedicated preventers that are in place. The Workers' Party also wishes to contribute to strengthening this area in its alternative budget. That's good. But I'm concerned about the willingness of the Workers' Party and the opposition to govern the police's efforts in detail. We remember in the spring debate that the Workers' Party was in favour of a cautious proposal. They suggested that the Oslo police should be controlled in detail from this pulpit. They wanted to tell the police in Oslo where the police resources were to be located. Police know best where to place resources in the district and across different urban areas. This also applies to how the police organise themselves to combat crime. I notice that the Workers' Party is critical that the org.krim section of Oslo has been added together with other units. I think it's strange that they're critical of it. There is the erasure of bullets between departments that will improve the fight against crime. An org.krim department that works alone does not provide the best solution, but an org.krim department that works with intelligence, along with analysis and others, without this silhouette recital that the Workers' Party defends, is actually the solution. We're committed to strengthening the police's budget, but without making any new moves and adapting to the crime scene we've been given, which is still changing, the money that we're granting will spill out into nothing. Now it is important that we give the police room for action to find the good solutions on their own, and we must not fall for the temptation to stand on the platform here and be better known.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e593	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e598	One of the biggest tasks is to create security — that people should be safe in their everyday lives. This summer we could read in my local, Drammen’s Official Journal, that if a call the police emergency number 112 or the police emergency number 02800, it is far from certain that someone picks up the phone at the other end. The police explained that the number of calls that never come through was due to too low staffing of the new operating centre that was moved from Drammen to Tønsberg. What was Right's response to the police? Organize better. The police districts have too little resources and room for action. We see the consequences every day. They're underfunded. Trustees also clearly report that the budget has been scrapped. So what can the police and the citizens expect from the government in 2019? That they take people's security seriously? That they're listening to the police? No, police districts are heavily underfunded for 2019, and several sites are reported as decommissioning – including in Buskerud, which is part of the South-East police district. That the time when the Right Party and the Advance Party were law and order parties, is really over, is quite rightly said. Over to the criminal services: Norwegian criminal care must be about clear punishment and people coming back as law-abiding citizens. The government is laying down many open prisons and using shelter with footlinks as a pure excuse. They put down open prisons with good results. One of the prisons is Hassel, which is located in the Upper Eiker municipality, in the village of Skotselv. There I grew up, not in prison, but in the village of Scotland. The prison is right next to the school and kindergarten. In many communities, it might be problematic, but not in Scotland. Hassel has very good results, and that's why. They offer work training, and prisoners can take professional letters and jobs to return to society as law-abiding citizens who can stand on their own feet. It's good for the inmates, who are going back to a normal life, but it's also good for society. It makes the impression when you meet the young repeater who says that at Hassel it's different, that you're seen and getting help for education and finally getting life on the right track. That's what criminal custody is all about. It also makes the impression that the whole community is united in fighting the government's defeat. However, it is sad that local wholesalers from the right in Buskerud have not been able to get through in their own government, nor are they listening to their own rapporteur. The Labour Party clearly refuses to put down Hassel prison. We don't want to build Norwegian criminal custody. We see the good results Hassel gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e611	It's a little strange to hear the posts of the representatives of the government parties here today. They're talking about the situation in a way that shows that they're living in a kind of parallel reality, because the distance is very big between the descriptions given by the government's efforts, and what everyday life looks like for those out there, who work in the police or in the criminal services of the whole country. In practice, the government is violating the agreement reached at the Stortinget on police reform. It was supposed to give more local police force. It hasn't happened. It wasn't supposed to be a savings reform, but that's what it's been. Police districts are now under-funded and are reported in several places, for example: in Hedmark, the Inland, where I come from. It's about people's sense of security, and it's about security. Today, too, there is a very sad day for many around the country when government parties decide to lay down profitable prison places, which are needed, for example. Bruvoll prison in Hedmark, where I come from. Putting down open prisons and using foot-link shelter as a pure excuse to do so is a testimony to a government that closes its eyes to feedback from prisons and professionals around the country. I am pleased that the Labour Party today is voting against putting Bruvoll down. The basis for the decision taken by the government, that Bruvoll should be laid down, is too weak. I think what we are now about to see the government do is going to lead to new settlement cows, unwanted duplication and weakened security for both prisoners and employees. That Bruvoll has good results when it comes to rehabilitation and repatriation, and that there is reason to believe that the majority of those who today son at Bruvoll have no opportunity to be transferred to reconciliation with electronic control, the government parties jump over. This means that these people have to enter into closed settlements, giving them poorer rehabilitation and poorer repatriation opportunities. Yes, the budget we are adopting today, the drastic action being taken, is a poor policy for prisoners, for employees and for society at large. The Labour Party has listened. We've seen and we've understood the message from the police and the employees. That is why we are moving towards the government's cut in the sector, and we are moving towards the proposal to put an end to the open prisons – Bruvoll included. Instead, we have an alternative budget where we strengthen criminal justice and thus ensure that in future we also have punishments that work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e624	Preparedness and security are essential in people's lives, and I want to trust that I can feel safe in Norway. The representatives of the Right here boast of the fight against organised crime, but it is well established in the position – and also in previous work – that the red-green government did a lot more precisely to lift the fight against organised crime and recriminalism. Nevertheless, I also feel that in the discussion about preparedness, there are statistics and show-cases that focus on, rather than how people in society, police professionals and in the justice field describe the reality out there. The representative, after representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, boasts of increased efforts on the police. The state council said on the radio no later than today that there will be no cuts in the police. If we had only got as many new employees in each police district as in the police department, we could have talked. But it's not like that. Newly educated people have difficulty getting a job. New announcements, to which the Council of State refers, should be the fault of newly educated and eager political candidates from the Police College, but neither is it. It's something that's not related. In criminal custody, we know the cops are coming. There the government has proposed laying down a total of 290 open properties. Going from queues to decommissioning in criminal custody, it makes sense in itself to ask the question: Does the government really clean up criminal environments, as they claim, or does they just move the queues? The implementation of police reform contributes to police functioning as a clot in the criminal justice chain, and several police districts report a large budget deficit. The police are struggling with the capacity, and a large number of cases involving a known perpetrator are being closed down. Does this improve preparedness in Norway? When the police work in conversion, it does not help the courts and the criminal services to experience a cut. Fewer offices where most people can meet the police all over the country make it even worse. The government of Solberg delivers on centralisation and degradation. On the other hand, I am more sceptical about increased preparedness and a safer country. It's just as if the Council of State doesn't take over the huge areas the preparedness needs to cover. The action area of the individual police districts has been reduced by almost 0.5 billion. kr under this government. We should have had the Central Party in government with the Minister of Justice, so that the Gjørv Commission was followed up and the police dialogue and preparedness actually got better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e641	In our house, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice drove a black car up to Stovner Police Station and ate shrimp butterbread. Afterwards they talked to the press and could tell them that there has been a tougher situation at Stovner, and that the government has had a big investment in Groruddalen, which is not at all true. The bourgeois government has been a brake block all the way and it is still. For 2019, they increase the allocation from 40 million. NOK 44 million. kr. In comparison, the red-green government granted in 2013 at the lower edge of 130 million. kr for Groruddalssatingen. The representative Angell Gimse talked about the importance of environmental work. Then it's funny that the bet is so powerless. Many children and young people do things they regret later in life. We as politicians can help these children get the opportunity to live a better life. It's about prioritizing. School is the key for young people who fall outside. In order to reduce child poverty and crime, we need to prevent students from dropping out of school and bet on more youth actions through Nav. We have areas with living conditions challenges in our cities. Many of those who grow up in these areas have parents who don't work. They grow up in poor families. These are families who cannot always afford to send their children to football training, cinema or vacations. These are activities many of us take for granted. It is serious that many children grow up in poverty and that the prevention of juvenile delinquency in parts of our cities is not good enough. For these young people, this results in marginalisation, exclusion and large social differences. It is quite obvious that the bourgeois government must bet on more police in the streets. At the same time, the police must have enough resources to invest in more outreach prevention. Oslo is a police district with major resource challenges. Oslo Police Association fears the consequences that the police will have to reduce 130 posts during 2018 and 2019. The government gives with its little finger while removing police resources with their whole hand. We have to keep focusing on fighting the gangs in Oslo, and here the government has failed completely. If we had been there before, we would have saved a lot of money. Now we're there. That is why our proposal is to strengthen the police districts by 410 million. kr so important. These means would certainly have helped young people to make the right choices when tempted to do the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e656	It has been raised beyond any doubt that there is a need to build a new police high school. It is confirmed by both current and former students and employees. The Storting has been informed on several occasions about the matter. Today's school in Majorstua is both worn out and unfit to train a modern police force, and the need has been addressed several times in the last ten to twelve years. Police are a practical profession, and as a result, students must have practical training in arrest techniques, shooting training and emergency driving. Better integration of the practical and academic disciplines, as pointed out by the Police College, needs to be ensured. There is a broad consensus that it is not possible to get to the Majorstua. Today's police high school is very expensive to operate because it's old construction and the school is located several places. There is a high potential for operational and land efficiency improvement through pooling and optimising the overall structure of the school nationally. This was last mentioned in a report from the Ministry of Justice and Defence received from Dovre Group Consulting in 2017. The Ministry ordered this report to provide an analysis of the overall needs of the justice sector for new buildings. The conclusion was that there are more precarious needs than what can be financed through ordinary budgets. In order to avoid a new high school of police being pushed out even further in time, the government parties in the Judicial Committee have therefore gone into the matter thoroughly to find a solution. And the solution is: it opens up to competitive buildings. This is a well-known procedure in the justice sector, and the red-green government is to be honoured that Norway has been given more new police houses in the last ten years, all built as a competitive building. Grölum in Østfold, Ski in Akershus, Hamar and Asker and Bærum are examples of this. Therefore, opening up to competitive construction is a continuity of an already existing practice. For the Police College, we are well aware that the solution can bring significant savings to the operating budget, at a time when we just have to make sure that resources go out to that pointed end. I record that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV criticize the government for taking too long to put in place a new police high school. Now that we have proposed a solution, which is the same as the red-green government used when they themselves were in position, we therefore hope that the parties can join it, so that a new police high school can get in place faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e673	The objectives of the near-police reform are operational, visible and accessible police, with the capacity and competence to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts and to ensure the freedom of the population, as stated in the police strategy. East police districts are far away from those objectives. This autumn, the media has shown that problems are raging, with no investigations and serious criminal proceedings pending. The Riksadvokat has come up with unusually sharp criticism. Defenders and aid lawyers have alerted. Most cases, including violence and abuse against children, have remained in one, two and up to three years. Indignant waits in uncertainty. They do not feel taken seriously and lose confidence in the police. Insecurity is spreading throughout families. I myself have been contacted by desperate women who live in fear of themselves and the young, while nothing happens. This is totally unsustainable. The Labour Party has confronted the government with the underfinancing of the police reform, and the Minister of Justice claims that the police are working better than before, because the averages show that more resources have come in since 2013, and that the time of the proceedings is falling and the percentage of clarification is increasing. But this is a alarming rejection of the realities behind the averages. Police lawyers have warned that in some places it is ordered that the simplest and most trivial cases be decided first, so that the balances are kept down and the district gives the impression of having control. This means that the most serious, labour-intensive and complex issues are left unprioritized. East police district is such a place. There, patrols and investigators are missing. Lawyers are not allowed to appeal in the heavier cases. Legal certainty and security are weakened. In the most populous police districts, there have been no more police close to people, and I agree with the National Attorney that the criminal proceedings of the police are in such a situation where everyone has to contribute together to improve the situation. The government's proposal for a government budget is a real downsizing of the police. The working party sees the problems and does something with them. Let's add 340 million. to police districts in order to strengthen their free space for action, staffing and operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e684	In recent years, the fire and rescue department has been increasingly responsible. Both full-time and part-time additions to the fire and rescue services must be more effective in carrying out police and health-related tasks. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights are proposing a new big message that can be taken care of. this theme. It is high time for a message to override the changes that have been made and to consider how the fire and rescue service should look in the future. When the fire and rescue service has to do tasks that belong to other services, the costs are shifted from health care providers and the state to the municipalities. On top of this is high costs of buying wired terminals and using the wired network. In addition, there are now higher investment costs for the 110 central banks. Net subscriptions are generally too expensive. In addition, costs are unreasonably high for some municipalities. A daily staff station can be more likely to share the terminals of the house, while part-time workers have to bring the terminals home to be available if something happens. There may be considerable differences between municipalities in the cost of purchasing terminals, as well as the cost of the subscription service. In my county, Møre and Romsdal, the cost of net subscriptions varies from DKr 13 per capita for the cheapest municipalities to DKr 158 for the most expensive municipalities. There's huge differences, and there's no good reason for it to be like that. A new distribution key is needed. There is a danger signal when the fire and rescue stations around the country begin to get rid of emergency terminals in order to reduce costs. This does not lead to better preparedness. An enormous amount of money has been spent on the grid from the state, and now we have to make sure to get the best possible effect out of the grid, so that these investments can be defended. The current distribution key goes beyond readiness. A new distribution key needs to see if it is possible to introduce state co-financing, as well as a fairer distribution of costs between the different municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e699	Everyone in this Chamber agrees that the budget for justice should be directed towards the changes in society we are facing, and of course also the changes in the crime picture we are facing. I believe that everyone — including the Minister of Justice — today has mentioned that traditional crime related to profits, drugs and violence in public spaces is falling sharply among all groups, including immigrant groups. Nor is there any repeat crime that is the major problem in Norway. It's serious, but it's definitely not the most serious thing. The most serious thing, and on which we have to focus most, is the dramatic increase in reports of rape and violence in close relationships. We're talking about 20,000 people being raped in Norway this year. There are almost equivalent numbers in the case of violence in close relationships. The first half of this year there were 400 reports of rape of children under 14 years of age. Then you can just think of what darkness is behind this. There is nothing else that should require more of our attention and our willingness to change. The police warn that there is a tsunami of reviews in these areas, on which they are not able to hang. Eight out of ten rape cases are being hospitalized, and seven out of ten cases of family violence reports are also being hospitalized. The police say that many of these matters are to be resolved because of the position of the evidence, but many people are being hospitalized simply because the police are unable to handle this. Norway has also received criticism from the UN Committee on Human Rights at this very point. There's a pattern in this. This government has previously said no to a consenting law for rape and has now also begun to comply with the abortion law. There is a pattern that this government simply does not take female victims seriously enough. There's something the government has to do with. I simply do not understand this resistance to and the lack of willingness to detailed the police. When we see a serious social problem, why won't they go in and rule? The next speaker will be allowed to answer this question: why won't she go in and rule when we see a clear problem? That doesn't mean we're going to tell the police what to do in detail, but we're going to go in and put resources in where it's necessary, and we're going to have the same willingness to govern this area as the Minister of Justice has in governing this by throwing out immigrants who have been denied their asylum application. There is a willingness on the part of the Minister of Justice to control detail – why does he not want to rule in detail in the areas of rape and family violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e720	It is very gratifying that a joint judicial committee wants to build on the model of the training centre of the police that is established on the Guards in the Trondelag. Here, Trøndelag police district, with the goodwill of the Defence and assistance of the municipality of Stjørdal, has sat in the driver's seat and created and developed a model that has been noticed nationally and has created interest in several police districts. There will be a training centre in Taraldrud, but it is also very important to train locally. The demands of police authorities are getting higher and higher, and police districts have not had fixed training facilities. This also applies to other police districts. So this center facilitates the pooling and building of competences between the emergency and emergency seats. It has also been a defect. The training centre at Værnes was made possible by firemen in the police. The Police Union recently gave the chief director of Trøndelag Police District, Frode Tystad, the title of the year’s employee for the work he has done for the Centre. The initiative of police districts is impressive. Here they've given employees with exposure space. In addition, they have created their own training wings that help train 600 policemen in Trøndelag. The closeness of such fine training facilities between police and defence provides good synergies and can now benefit from each other’s infrastructure if necessary. This good cooperation between the police and the defence of daily life means that the citizens of the region can be confident that the prerequisites for effective and good cooperation between the same agencies will also be the best in crisis situations. A General Judicial Committee is now calling on the Government to draw up a national plan for the establishment of regional training and preparedness centres for training and competence building between emergency and emergency seats. This is good preparedness policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e734	The Government Party proposes to close seven open prisons in its draft state budget. Ulvsøy is one of these. The centre party has put in its alternative proposal the means to keep up all these prisons. It is about what kind of criminal care we are going to have in Norway – to focus on rehabilitation and good reintegration into society, that is, the very purpose of criminal enforcement: to counteract new criminal offences. All the other proposed prisons outside Ulvsnesøy have been through a KVU process where one has gone through prisons throughout the region and set a plan for the future. This process has just started in region west. But the Christian People's Party and the government party could not wait until 2020, when the KVU for region west is presented. Osterøy Division has the best school results in the whole country. In 2017, there was the same number of final assessments as in the entire Halden prison, with its 250 incarcerations. It's not random. The Bergen prison department Osterøy is the only provision for women on lower security in the region west. And where do these become now? Well, what's mentioned is to transfer them to Bergen prison unit D, but upgrading it will cost between $40 million. NOK 60 million. kr – plans to take a long time to realize. Women in the West must receive more severe punishment from June than is necessary when Osterøy is laid down. This is discrimination. The costs of keeping Ulvsnessey up are excessive. Allowing Ulvsnessey to continue until the KVU is completed, so that we can see the entire criminal service in the West in a context, will cost small money. The inserts do not disappear, nor do they add. The Osterøy department today has long waiting lists for today's operation. None of the sons who are there today are involved in accompaniment with electronic control. The government and the Christian People's Party have prioritised a prison in a region where new prisons will be opened in 2020. The Christian People's Party is involved in shutting down the Osterøy department before the KVU for the West is completed. It's wrong to decide and break decisions in Stortinget. I am extra disappointed with the Christian People's Party today – I have to say it. The Christian People's Party has been together with the Center Party and the rest of the opposition in several rounds to prevent the closure of Ulvsnesøy. It was party leader Knut Arild Hareide who in February last year presented the proposal to include Ostery in the ongoing KVU. There were multiples. The fact that it is the Christian People's Party itself that today takes the case in the opposite direction and suggests that Ulvsnessey is being laid down is very disappointing – and very, very sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e749	I have to say it is reasonably special to sit and listen to the debate here today. There are no limits to self-criticism that come from government parties. It happens less than two weeks after it was so far the government avoided being distrusted because of its failing follow-up of security and preparedness and object security. The Christian People's Party promoted – and got a majority in that matter – the strongest criticism that the Stortinge can express without a government falling by mistrust. One said that the government’s efforts were very serious and highly critical. In that debate, the representative from the Progress Party said that the government should have a good conscience for everything it has provided, and I noticed that the representatives from the government parties follow up in the same style in this debate. When you're challenged by what's real in Norway today, a ten-year-old press clipper pulls out to kick back. We are living in 2018, and there is a crisis in police districts by police district, things are going in the wrong direction after the police reform. In my own police district, East Police District, it appeared earlier this fall that there are more than 7,000 pending criminal cases. That's an increase of over 50 pst. after the police reform. The number of cases over a year has more than tripled, and none of the 150 reported rape cases have been followed up within the 130-day deadline. I noticed that the Prime Minister was with the East Police District and said that they had to tighten up. It's a little bit typical of this majority. A boaster of his own efforts, and when there are problems, a problem pushes down the system. People don't get through on the phone. The cases are collapsing with the police. The cases accumulate in the courts – and what does the government do? Well, someone's promoting the idea of going to jail. One must have some background from the PR industry in order to argue, as the Minister of Justice, that this is a sensible policy. We have to reverse developments within the police. We need to give more priority to local police in order to address everyday crime and ensure that we get services close to people, make sure that there is security in people's everyday lives throughout Norway. We'll do that with our alternate budget. We give half a billion more to the local police and reinforced border control.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e762	I hear that there are calls for tight times in police Norway, and then it's referred to media redundancies. It goes into a pattern. There are warnings in the media, and politicians are going to throw themselves on and use concepts like crisis, etc. The representative, Enger Mehl, has given us a good outline here – terrifying headlines. It sounds bad, it might also sound unique to the situation. So I Googled it. I went into the cell phone and searched for previous lookups, and I have found some headlines: the police officer turns the resource alarm. Police districts fear great cuts in the number of policemen. The police unit warned that the police had to cut off 500 posts the following year. Tracking police crisis. Fears of 430 years in the police can be cut. The Chief of Police may have had to cut 140 years' worth. The Joint Police Association fears large cuts in the number of employees. There is no way of how many positions have been notified. When do you think these statements are from? They are from 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012, and two of them have arrived since 2013 – during a period when the police have gone from 13 billion. NOK up to under 22 billion. kr in the budget. There have been 2,600 new police officers in the same period. It's been yelling over the last decades about all the policemen and all the police posts to be cut and cut and cut, while the fasitite is that it's increasing and increasing and increasing every single year. What does that tell us? It tells us that we should listen to the feedback that comes, there may be interesting points that are pointed out in these media issues, but we don't need as politicians to jump on every single narrative, every single opportunity to use the concept of crisis, to sound the alarm without it really happening. I think we're doing the trick of keeping our heads a little cold. I think we're wise to reserve the concept of crisis only for those cases where it really applies. This applies whether we are in position, in a trade union or in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e775	It is true that appropriations are increasing, it is true that appropriations are increasing considerably — money is being pumped in, but the level is becoming increasingly frustrated by the way management is conducted, and that results in poor results. One gets little left for the money, and the representative Frülich should take a closer look at that. We've been through object protection -- strong criticism that there were too few people. There were too few people present both from the police and from the Home Office. It doesn't make any sense to the government. That's why many professionals are following this debate today, many people wanting to know if what people are experiencing in practice in their societies is the same thing as being said here in the Chamber. Is there any naval recognition from the responsible parties behind the near-police reform – the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party? From the government parties, there is no recognition. People are now experiencing the consequences of the near-police reform, which is a word that is at best confusing. Centralization was and is the purpose, but it was not the government man people enough to say. There's a language usage that lacks honesty, and it's a huge problem. Experienced policemen have told me that during the reform, a complete renovation of the house was to take place at the same time as one was to live there. And the reform would not cost any more, if the quality would improve. One need not be the police director to understand that this was not going to be the result. When I asked the Minister of Justice where the risk assessment is, he replied in a written reply dated 26 September 2018 that there is no risk assessment. That's pretty typical. Most major reforms being carried out in this house have no such risk assessment, no talk about quality assurance here and quality assurance there. It's quite symptomatic, and it's quite problematic, I'd say. The result is today: a brutal centralisation, a de-employment which continues by the fact that job vacancies are not filled. To the east, that means 50 jobs. So with a greeting to the representative Frölich, there are cows in the investigation, the operation centers are not able to respond to the police emergency number. But the most important thing is that those who are professionals, those who are going to do the job, are not inspired. The member of the Committee, Frülich, should take further account of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e788	It's good with some temperature in this debate. I actually thought that the representative Frølich should look a little bit in the archive himself, I, and look at various media essays where both the sample-action and the one and the other have been used. I know that the criticism doesn't hit very well. The Labour Party is in this debate and in very many other debates about people's legal security and about those who are victims of crime, but also of those who are related to the victims of crime. In our work party, with the support of the SV and the Central Party, a proposal that we wanted the government to come back to the Stortinget with the necessary legal and regulatory changes so that the time taken to assess the compensation of victims of violence in resumption cases goes from being the time of the action to being the time of the conviction. This matter had us a thorough debate about in ours, and I felt that a joint committee was very some about the issue. Our proposal didn't get plural, but it made the loose proposal that was made by the Christian People's Party, which reads like this: ‘The Government asks in the context of the follow-up to NOU 2016: 9 to ensure that the compensation scheme includes victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases.’; In that debate it was very clearly underlined by, among other things. Representative Solveig Horne that this work had to go quickly. The representative Kjell Ingolf Roppstad stressed that when we discover that the system has unfair consequences, we have to change the system. I couldn't be more united. But I was a little upset when I heard the line change between the representative Ropstad and Minister of Justice Wara earlier today. For there the Minister of Justice said that when they have finished solving the challenges of the Victim Compensation Office, they will look at this call for proposals. But that's not what Stortinget has been told about. The store has been told that the work is time-consuming, but in that case it is new information for me if it is such that they have not started that work once. We have discussed the compensation of victims of violence in various forms in this fall. Everyone here knows about Mona-saka from Focus, where all the parties promised gold and green forests in the election campaign, and then they come to the hall when it's true, and then it fails. The Labour Party therefore notes that its proposal is currently in the budgetary position. I believe that our proposal should be adopted in concrete terms. There is nothing in the way of continuing to work with the NOU, which it seems should take both the year and the day before one is finished. I'm generally concerned that very many good suggestions coming from the Storting should only be pushed into a NOU work that we don't see the end of. I think this fits into the line of the line of the cows victims of crime. VG had a big look earlier this year where even those who are entitled to compensation for the victims of violence have to wait for several years before they get the money. The Workers' Party proposes that the Agency for the Compensation of Victims be strengthened by EUR 15 million. kr in the setting today, while the government continues to tell them that they have to sort things out, without allowing more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e806	The central party believes that we need to think about the security and security of citizens from a global preparedness perspective that includes, inter alia, the following: object protection and terror preparedness, fire preparedness, flood and emergency preparedness, power, emergency and mobile networks, emergency preparedness in the health sector, food and seed preparedness, medical stores and ICT security. There are many actors, ranging from the operational police and the defence of local pharmaceutical stocks and the individual, who are encouraged to provide their own emergency services. In order for citizens to be safe, there must be good interaction between actors and the principle of subsidiarity must apply to the planning of justice policy. Therefore, earlier this year, the Central Party promoted a proposal to set up a General Emergency Commission, which unfortunately was rejected by the Government Parties. We thought it was time to look completely at military and civil preparedness. The centre party believes that we need to plan for a global preparedness perspective, as reflected in our alternative budget, and we are also promoting a number of proposals today that will strengthen preparedness across the country. First of all, the Central Party is adding half a billion dollars to strengthen the police districts. We are opposed to the centralising police reform, which has led to a weakened local police force, which also weakens local preparedness. The National Audit Office has strongly criticised the government's work on object protection. The center party believes that we cannot accept that basic protection of protective objects is not in place, and proposes an increase in the means of object protection in its alternative budget. In autumn 2018 several places in the country experienced electricity, mobile networks and emergency networks falling out. Under the extreme weather “Knud”, the emergency network was inoperative at 44 base stations. The centre party believes that we need to strengthen DSB's efforts to increase reserve power capacity for several of base stations' emergency networks in 2019, and propose increased funds to ensure it. The summer of 2018 was a shocking experience for everyone in forested areas. The budgets were considerably exceeded in the fight against the fires that were held this summer, and the Centre Party proposes in its alternative budget increased funds for fire helicopters, which will enable us better to secure the inhabitants against forest fires in the future. The justice sector depends on good cooperation with NPISHs, foundations and volunteers. We believe that voluntary actors are an important part of Norway’s overall preparedness. The volunteer organisations in the rescue services are present throughout the country, and the Central Party is increasing its commitment to volunteering in its alternative state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e823	There has been a lot of good in criminal services since I was forty years ago in what was then called the Åna Circuit Prison. At that time, there were up to ten inserts on each cell. There was an institution where the soning acted as a school in which they learned more and more criminal acts than they could ever have done, and which was the basis for the sentence. The soning still has to be a loss of freedom, but fortunately, the content of the soning up over these 40 years since I work as a prison officer at the Åna, has been given much more a content to make the sentence better able to live a lawful life after release. Therefore, it is so sad when we now experience a massive closure of open settlements. These prisons are the last term in what we can call atoning tramp, too many convicted. It's here pretending to live normal life in society, so that those who convicted one day can come out into the community as good neighbors to all of us. Not least, the sonority and its contents must aim to ensure that it is not reinstated in prison. The Osterøy Department of Bergen is such a prison, which can show good results, among other things. with best school outcomes for those committed and with high motivation for a future life without crime. They all have long sentences in Osterøy, and they are thus not qualified for links or other alternative forms of reconciliation. Osterøy is also a unique supply for women, which is otherwise a low priority in criminal services. There is a long list of applications to punish the critical last part of a long sentence in Osterøy — the final phase before release and a civil life. What is so sad, and which is also difficult to grasp, is that the draft budget as it is now led by the right-wing government, means the closure of the Osterøy department. And it is therefore suggested that even though the Stortinget has recently agreed to continue the Osterøy division in two ways, the offer should be evaluated in the current draft currency exchange, the KVU, for the West. We then expected that the government would respect the Stortinget's decision. The Labour Party stands by its proposal, and we have given funds to our alternative budget, so that Osterøy is not put down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e834	In the last year, several media have focused on different relationships in criminal justice. That's good, because the few know how life inside the prison walls fades. Openness and critical eyes on all public services, including the state, are important. The prison and abandoned documenter puts the search light on mental health and the use of coercive agents and isolation. In my visits to Ila and other prisons, this has been a central theme. The prison population has the same rights to good health services as the rest of the population. Local authorities and health regions are responsible for this. The government has also chosen to increase its efforts. It's got a lot of stuff. a resource team has been established at Ila Prison G where good feedback has been received. It is also very gratifying that the competences built up by this prison benefit the rest of the criminal services, and that mental health has also been more at the forefront of education at KRUS. In the 2019 budget, the government shows that one is taking the challenges of mental health seriously, by establishing a new country-specific, strengthened community unit at Ila prison for the most serious mentally ill prisoners. 65 pst. of the inserts that make a judgment, there is a problem of intoxication. New drug treatment provision has been developed in several countries in the last few years. For 2019, the government will launch a new pilot project at Bjørgvin Prison to test a new detoxification model where health professionals conduct detoxification in prison. Lawbreakers convicted of sexual assault are a growing group of prisoners, which requires new methods of rehabilitation. The treatment provision for this group is currently limited, voluntary and is given to those with the highest risk of relapse. The government will thus establish a nationwide treatment provision and strengthen coordination between health services and criminal services in 2019. It's going to collect almost 50 million. kr to new health measures for inclusion in the 2019 budget. In the Yelujah Declaration, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left are committed to working for a more effective and rehabilitating criminal justice system. It's also an explicit goal to reduce the use of insulation. The fact that the opposition is still trying to create a picture of everything going wrong in criminal matters now is understandable, but the results show that our policy is working. Of course, it is not that good when one himself delivered eight years of misguided policy. I have a personal mantra that I use when I am sure that the direction option is correct, but the resistance becomes great: hold on and hold on! The results show that the direction is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e849	The central party wanted a different police reform than the centralisation reform that the government is now carrying out. The near-police reform has resulted in what we feared – that more police districts now report unfortunate consequences of longer distances and lack of resources. This should send a signal to the government now that several municipalities around the country are leaving to sign a cooperation agreement with the police. Fyresdal municipality in my home state, Telemark, is one of the municipalities that did not want to sign an agreement that they believe is not good enough. In the past, there was a lenghtsman's office, a policeman and a civil servant at the office in Fyresdal. Now the police are visiting only one day a week. The municipality has lost police with local knowledge and the ability to prevent. A concrete example of the distance being too long is that a week ago there was a traffic accident in Fyresdal. The police patrol had to drive for 12 miles and spent two hours getting there. In my home municipality, Notodden, the police themselves now say that we just have to expect that it will take much longer in the future than before before they are in place in the event of accidents and dramatic events, such as axe attacks and killings, which are two of the recent events where the police have arrived too late. The police reform has meant that there are only a few patrols at work in the whole upper part of the county. Preparedness and safety are significantly impaired, and this is also the important prevention. Even the police chief admits that the situation is poor in Telemark, but explains that there is not enough money. It is not just the prevention and response time in parts of the country that suffer from this reform. The First State Attorney in Troms recently told the VG that the investigation of rape cases has also become worse, and the head of the Police Directorate immediately said that there has been production loss as a result of the police reform. From 2015 to 2017, only 614 rape cases ended in court, while a total of 3526 cases were closed. So there has been a large increase in reported offences in recent years, and there are difficult issues, but that does not explain this huge difference between police districts in which cases are being blamed and not. In Western police districts, for example, there was an increase in the number of police officers. only prosecuted in less than one in 10 rape cases between 2015 and 2017. Police districts need to be able to handle these issues. If someone gets raped, it's not supposed to mean anything where in the country you live. The government must provide enough resources for the police districts, for all the police districts, so that we can ensure a good police service throughout the country. The self-declared laws and order parties of the government should not be satisfied with this situation. At least we are not in the Central Party, and not I, which also turns out very clearly in our alternative budget, where we strengthen the police districts by 0.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e862	In my previous post I talked about prevention and violence in close relationships, and when I was going to talk about radicalisation, there was no more time left. I want to take this opportunity to raise a few points. One is civil society work, which is very important. I mentioned the Minority Policy Thought, which is doing quite a lot of work in this field against young people. After the dialogue meetings that were held at the House of Literature in 2009–2010, I founded a minority political thinking tank. It started with the riots that were in Oslo, where young demonstrators went out and threw a stone at the police and not least outside the Israeli embassy. What we learned from those dialogue meetings was that it's possible to change people. The stone-throwing youth stood and told about what they had done in the demonstration trains, and in that dialogue they ended by saying that they promised that they would never throw stones again. Someone was changed there and then. In other meetings, there were people who measured their Jewish hatred, and they walked around with that Jewish hatred for many years to come. There was a lot of work that had to be done against them, and the Jews who stood at the House of Literature were the same ones who took the initiative to make a peace ring around the synagogue, which became an international news in the world. It shows that dialogue works. But of course it doesn't work for everyone. Examples of this are Arfan Bhatti, Ubaydullah Hussain, the Prophet's Ummah, and not least the one now sentenced to two and a half years' imprisonment for threatening myself, the Mohyelde. Against them we need the police, the PST and the judiciary – that's the only way to take these hard-core extremists. But it's also important that our security service works well towards intelligence abroad, that the E-service and the PST cooperate well, and also that we have good dialogue with intelligence abroad, so that we get access to what they do when they're abroad, that we can detect this. One of the last moments I want to raise is that we also need to control the immigrants coming to Norway. I myself have been a police lawyer in PU, I know that there is an important work done there. I have also been the head of the Foreign Affairs Department, and part of the things that foreign agencies can do well is to make sure that we know who is in Norway. If you don't have an ID check, if you don't know who people are, you don't know what they've done. And if you don't know what they've done, you can't punish them for any war crimes they've committed abroad, and you can't know what they're capable of doing while they're here. I believe this anti-radicalisation work where we look at civil society, that we are strengthening the PST, that we are strengthening cooperation between intelligence services in Norway, but also across borders, and that we are ensuring the ID work in Norway, is part of the key factors that are needed to ensure that we succeed in the work against radicalisation. Radicalisation must not succeed, because it will undermine democracy itself. They will combat our freedom of expression, equality, the values we know well, and not least they will bring democracy to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e877	It is sad to note that this budget brings down good compensation options. There is no one in the Chamber who protests that the offer is to be adapted to demand – to put it that way – but it is a man. We also have to ask the question why the open-ended solution has overcapacity. Ida, that's how electronic control, foot-link soning, meets part of the need. There is something that has been going on for many years, but the majority believe that less than half of them as zones at the now proposed open prison sites will not be able to use electronic control. It may be because of the length of the judgment, the content of the judgment, etc. By implementing the government’s proposal for the closure of the open prisons, some of the prisoners who are currently in open prison and who cannot be transferred to prison by foot would have to have closed prison zones due to lack of capacity in the open prisons. One important reason why not all open prisons have full coverage is that the whole chain of criminal proceedings is not synchronised. When the police and courts lack so much capacity, it is obvious that there will be less need for compensation. Much of this is to be thanked for the police reform. Here, SV is fully in line with the speakers of the Central Party. We know that a number of cases, not least in the area of family violence and sexual crimes, are currently being postponed or hospitalized. This was my colleague, Eide, very clearly inside. It's unsustainable, we have to give priority to this. If we hear for stronger follow-up only of this segment – or when we get a government shift – we will quickly need many of the prisons that are now being laid down. In Buskerud, one of the most successful open prisons, Hassel Prison, is on the list of the prisons to be closed, despite being written in the state budget that Hassel Prison has a good professional offer. This is in line with previously documented facts in user surveys, including: The prison inmates at Hassel are in daily contact with the local community in Skotselv, and they have great confidence. Prison has 95 pst. coating – as far as I am concerned – this year and have waiting lists. There have been some incredible calculations on the wrong premises from Stadsbyggen – as far as we can see – that there is a need for upgrading of huge numbers of millions. This is built on old numbers and not on today's numbers, and we think it's completely wrong. They have a very reasonable rental. I hope that the Council of State can look at the opportunity that has arisen from Hassel to get additional operating resources for another six months – and think about and make suggestions to further operate this great offer. There must not be too many bridges – at least not the good ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e891	There have never been higher appropriations – there is the standard response of government parties to everything. There's a lot higher now than ever – and then I'm not just talking about the self-satisfaction of the right-wing government. If we want to measure the highest, we can add tax cuts to the richest. I do as the representative Horne, also read headlines from year back: 2016: “Norway’s richest gets a billion” in tax cuts [[...]] 2017: « ten kroner day [[...]] [[...]] 2018: « Hundred times more earning over $10 million» [[...]] Other figures highest: number of rapes reported. And then again, the fees have never been higher. It's flat cut in all services. The Directorate of Police has never had so many employees. This applies to debt collection, the proportion of children living in poor families, police duties, the queues in the courts, orders. The economic differences are growing. It also does the social inequalities in health. So we don't need any more boasts -- cheap rhetoric about imagination about dry departmental facts, about pointing down, on the floors, about reading newspaper headlines, if not taking responsibility and seeing five to ten years back in time. We need action, because this is the path of traces from right-wing government and the Ministers of Justice of the Progress Party: a criminal policy deterred from social development, a policy without context. It also happens in other countries. The biggest flaw in our country is that the government does not take this seriously enough. The only thing the Labour Party has to refer to is the increase of a few percentage points, says the government representatives. Having content in prisons, ensuring the implementation of police reform in the districts, strengthening the Office for Victim Compensation, stopping the starvation of prisons and limiting the use of money in POD – that is more than money. The Labour Party has a comprehensive and redistributive policy, which changes the premise of the statistics provided by this government. In the end, I'm going to be greeted by the police at Agder. They are still waiting, almost a year and a half after they sent letters to the Minister of Justice about where they will be in 2020, and about how security will be resolved now and in any new premises for the police in Agder. It seems that the waiting time for answers from the Minister is also at its highest level.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e914	It may seem that women in general are less criminal than men. The question, however, is, How do we set up societies when mothers, sisters, and daughters are to make up for themselves? Our criminal services are both humane and effective. But when Michael Moore came to Norway to record material for his documentary, a film that unreservedly celebrates the focus on the rehabilitation, restitution and dignified treatment of our convicted people, it was Baskøj he visited – a real jewel in Norwegian criminal custody. Perhaps it is not so strange that there were not the women on the Ravne Mountains or in the Sandfjord prison he visited. Although much good work is done in these prisons as well, he may not have been equally impressed, because being a convicted woman is something quite different in Norway than being a convicted man. The conditions for mothers, sisters and daughters who are punishing are in the process of being further exacerbated. For five years, the right government through greedy cuts has built down Norwegian criminal custody stone for stone. The last step out is the decision to lay down a number of open prisons. Just as a male inmate one day should return to a role as a father or husband, the female inmate should return to a role as a mother or a spouse. When it comes to this, I record that it's not raised as much as an eyebrow from the Christian People's Party to improve conditions, although this must strike in the heart of their family policy. The right-wing government is suggesting that women should be remunerated, even though we know that women already have significantly worse conditions in prison than men. On Mount Ravne, four women share one room. There is no Basty they can apply for. The exception was Osterøy, but Osterøy is now decided by the government. We know that opportunities for education and work experience are lower for women as sons than for men. In Sandefjord prison, women had the opportunity to gain work experience and education, but Sandefjord prisons are also to be laid down. We know that women who son must zone much longer away from their communities and their families than the men. The principle of subsidiarity does not apply to women as much as to men. I wonder if Minister of Justice Wara has really considered the consequences of his own decisions. For those who wait at home, the consequence may be that Mom won't come home, even if she gets out. The consequences for families can be great, but they are fast for society too. It is not easy to assume that some of those who are sons in prison are mothers, sisters and daughters. But we do well, both for them and for society, to make their stay in prison as best they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e929	It is now less than two weeks since we discussed in this Chamber a very serious report from the National Audit Office on the government's work on object protection – a report in which the National Audit Office repeatedly used the term "very serious", which is the strongest concept the Riksrevision can use. There were 80 of the 169 representatives of Stortinget who found it right to declare distrust of the government, and a majority decided on strong criticism and that the situation is very serious. That discussion was marked by the fact that the government does not take this matter seriously enough. There is no doubt that, after the six-hour debate, the basis for both the mistrust and the strong criticism that was adopted was stronger than when we started the debate, precisely because the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom devalues the fact that the Ministry of Justice, in the context of the 2016 budget, clearly provided the Stortinget with the wrong information. They were informed from their offices that the information was incorrect, but they did not correct it against Stortinget. The debate was also marked by the fact that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice have referred to the report as if it were only about police and defence buildings, despite the fact that there is a serious situation for important functions in society. When we got the budget term from the department, there was even greater reason to be concerned. It says: «This report confirms that improvements have been made since 2015, but that there is still some work to be done. The Ministry of Justice and Defence takes the remaining challenges to the greatest seriousness and the closure of non-conformities will still have a particular high priority.’ Yes, ‘still’, it says — after the report points out that the work has not been given priority by the government. The day before the debate, we even experienced that the Minister of Justice, when, for once, he did not stare rigidly into a script, said to have earmarked funds for object protection as means of concrete. Then it is not so nice that Stortinget is concerned that the Minister of Justice does not take the matter seriously. Today, the Minister of Justice again had a script, and we shall be happy for that. I would like to conclude by saying that it is good that the government has now finally taken on board the need to earmark funds for object protection, and that the Stortinget unanimously expects a comprehensive report on progress and economics, at the latest in the context of the revised budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e949	I asked a little while ago the Council of State whether he would reestablish the coast radio in Vardø, or whether the government would soon ensure the preparedness of fishermen in Finnmark in some way. The people of Finnmark warned of the closure of the coast radio in Vardø. Prior to the closure of the coast radio, it was claimed that this would not have any consequences for users or the population, but it has proved to be false promises. We saw this recently, when three fishermen lost all contact with the country and the fear of their lives as a result of the collapse of the telecommunications network along the coast of all of East Finland. Things that work must not be replaced. But if you do, you have to make sure that what you switch to gets better, and not worse. As it worked in Finnmark a short time ago, it's scary. Things aren't getting better, they're getting worse. People were in danger. Local authorities had to find local solutions, and those who had satellite radio became very important. What happened? There were two wire fractures at one time that created trouble in Finnmark. The broadband and mobile network for Telenor were down in Gamvik, Vardø, Berlevåg, Båtsfjord, Lebesby and Nordkap, and the mobile coverage along the entire coastline between Kjøllefjord and Vardø was down. You might owe Telenor, but this is the responsibility of the state, and now you see that it doesn't work with private companies in this operation. Then the state itself must provide good infrastructure. Police reform presents challenges. A while ago, we had a case in the municipality of Loppa, where the police reported that they needed help. Response time is important in such cases. The police did not come, and finally the rapporteur threatened that he would move out to resolve the conflict. Then the police came. The trust leaders in the Finnmark police district say that the district lacks many jobs to be OK staffed and get the robustness that the reform has promised and the audience has expected. Many people don't feel safe when they live in Finnmark, as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e958	In connection with the state budget of this government, a number of prisons are being set up around the country. It's a paradox because it's only a short time since the government sent prisoners to the Netherlands because they didn't have enough shelters here in Norway. Already under the red-green government, Justice Minister Grete Faremo in 2013 stated that a new prison was to be built in Agder with about 300 seats. Then they took over blue, and then the State Secretary of the Progress Party said that there was no longer any plan to establish a new prison in Agder. Although this resulted in a postponement, I am glad that the blue-blues found the plans for new prisons in Agder and that these prisons are now under construction. It is good that 200 new prisons finally arrive in Fromand, 100 in Mandal and women's seats in Evje. It is important for the quality of the settlement of prisoners, and it contributes to jobs in a part of the country that needs it. What is not so good, however, is that trustees now call for warning that the operating resources of the Evje Women's Prison are still not in place, even though the idea is that the prison will soon open. Trustees are constantly told that further cuts must be made in the crew proposed, and it is now announced that this will compromise safety. Poor staffing also offers much less opportunities for good rehabilitation. There has been a good cross-political effort to establish 200 new prisons in Fromand. However, there are closed spaces. If we're going to have a good criminal service with reconciliation, it's a paradox that the government is now going to lay down the open settlements both at Kleivgrend in Fyresdal and at the Håvet in Arendal. Now the Christian People's Party has for the time being saved the places at Kleivgrend, but the Hope in Arendal will continue to be closed with the blessing of this government and the Christian People's Party. I have visited the Hope and the employees there. They can tell about reasonable settlements with full cover and prisoners who are once again learning to master – whether it's about completing secondary education in cooperation with the high school in Arendal, or it's about something as simple as drying into a store to buy a pants. When the government will now remove the open settlements in the area from which I come, the criminal care of the government is no longer linked. It makes for poorer rehabilitation and mastering for the individual prisoner, an inmate who tomorrow might be your neighbor. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party shows another way. We say no to the closures of good, well-functioning open settlements, and we strengthen both the criminal justice system and the rest of the justice sector. This allows people who have gone wrong to succeed in their lives, and it also builds security for the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e979	Protecting the country's citizens and safeguarding their security is the country's prime task. I have enjoyed the debate today and the opportunity to discuss next year's budget for justice, but I must admit that the regular black paint we have seen here today has been a special opinion to witness. I'm going to be the first to admit that reforms are not easy, that the way forward also has some swings. That there are challenges in the justice sector, we all know that, but it's especially listening to a debate where it can almost seem like nothing has been done in recent years. Let me remind you of the background to the most necessary police reform we are now implementing, namely the failures and weaknesses that emerged during the tragedy of July 22nd, and in the report to the subsequent Gjørv Commission. It was quite obvious after the emergency we saw that day, that we needed changes in Police Norway to get a response at a satisfactory level in terms of police operational capacity, culture and leadership, and in terms of some important instruments for the police. Therefore, changes and the police reform we are in the middle of have been absolutely necessary. I also want to mention some of the progress that has been made since 22 July, and not least since the government change in 2013. One is the number of years worked by the police. It's spent 1.8 billion. New posts in the police force. Someone might think that's not enough, but claiming that nothing has been done in this field is special. I also want to highlight the purchase of new police helicopters, which is a very important resource for the police, not least when things happen outside Oslo. Also, the establishment of the emergency centre at Taraldrud – where this government had to start the project from the beginning, as the previous government had an area that was simply not large enough – has been important to get in place. I would also like to highlight the important work that has been done on the armaments side, which is very much about our preparedness and ability to protect citizens in the event of serious incidents. More than 500 people have been killed in terrorist attacks in Europe since 2015. These are threats Norway is not a stranger to. The way IS-inspired and other jihadists have operated on in other European countries in recent years is not a threat to us either. So point weapons and other things that have been done on the armed side are important. Disunity and criticism from the opposition are part of the role-sharing in the Storting, but I don't think the public debate is getting worse – I think it's getting better on the contrary – if the opposition too could enjoy the progress that has been made in recent years. Then we can work together on the challenges and how to solve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e994	This is a serious situation in Eastern police districts. Aid lawyers have expressed concerns about the legal certainty of children and adults who are victims of violence and abuse. The police officer himself has stated that the demanding situation makes matters that deal with violence in close relationships have to wait. The implementation of police reform is not in line with the agreement. The local police had to be strengthened, but unfortunately that's not the reality out there. The result is inter alia: that children and adults who have been subjected to violence by their neighbors do not receive the follow-up they should have. There is a cross-political consensus that the most vulnerable children must be given priority, but unfortunately the state budget does not. The government has increased next year's budget by 67 million. kr through the escalation plan against violence and abuse, and last year it was accompanied by 54 million. kr. In a state budget, unfortunately, there is no money that goes very far. When the escalation plan was promoted, there was great expectation of a binding budgeting. Other escalation plans have been important tools for lifting a field over time. The mental health escalation plan granted it over 6 billion. DKK over 10 years. The police have taken significant steps in the right direction in the fight against violence in close relationships, but they need increased resources to meet the scale of cases that are also increasing — multiple cases and online abuses. Children who have experienced violence and abuse shall not experience that their case is not prioritised. The police must have competence in such matters. The ambitions of the right-wing government are price-worthy, but when there is not enough money, yes, it does not. It has been said from this pulpit today that the Right is startled by these kinds of things – and then I wonder where the funds are going. Empty words do not help anyone. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, it's over a billion dollars. kr to work against violence and abuse. Resources are needed, but also obliging plans. Norway remains without an action plan against rape and an action plan against violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1007	There has been a lot of talk about criminal law, and the government has boasted about how good this is all around the country. I want to draw up a couple of examples from my own home country. The prison in Ålesund is a so-called 1860 prison. The prison was dimensioned for the population at that time, and there are far more inhabitants in the coverage area now than then. The prison is old, has a lack of space and is built for the isolation of prisoners. There's a hurry to get a new prison in Ålesund. The coverage of prisons in More and Romesdal is in only 33 prisons per 100,000 inhabitants. It's way below the national average, which is 75,1. Transporting prisoners from More and Romesdal to Bergen requires time and resources that could have been used for something completely different and much more sensible police work in More and Romesdal. A new reconciliation center on Sunnmøre is well prepared, but resources are needed for the project. We don't seem to get multiple funds for this in the state budget for 2019, but I would strongly urge that this be done as quickly as possible, and that it will facilitate the construction of the reconciliation centre there. We in the Center Party have seen both the planning tools and the design tools for this. Similarly, we have seen funds for the extension of Hustad prison in our alternative state budget. Similarly, there is a precarious situation for Romesdal District Court, Frosting Law and Romesdal Law of Change in Molde. For more than 20 years, there has been a planned new warehouse for these courts. Landsbygg had completed the pilot project in 2012 and more than 10 million. kr was used for planning. It is very unfortunate that these plans are completely shattered by a lack of budget resources. However, when it is not implemented for a whole new locality, I am positively adjusted to the report from the government of the budget, where it says: ‘The Court of Justice is working with the current landlord on the rehabilitation of the current local courts. A clarification of this option is expected during 2018.’ This has to be in place. There's a great need for a new thinghouse solution in Molde. It is necessary to ensure that the security and a higher standard are put on the agenda and that it is implemented as soon as possible. This was a major election campaign in More and Romesdal, both from the position and from the opposition, and now the government has to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1027	The representative of Guro Angell Gimse has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1032	I notice that the opposition is constantly blaming the police reform for the challenges facing the police. The fact that the police have challenges to keep up with the investigation of violence and abuse is not the result of a demanding police reform alone. This is primarily due to an enormous increase in the number of reviews. The number of sexual offences reports has increased by 66 pst. in the last three years, and reports of violence in close relations have increased by 33 p.m. We're now increasing the research appropriation for this area by 40 million. kr. Ten million. kr of these funds goes to prosecutors, as we know that this is a bottleneck. We know that the police reform has given us bigger and better professional environments, and we have got the Support Center for Injury in Criminal Matters. We are not in the process of reform, but we are in the process of doing well – it will not be implemented until 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1042	I want to talk in my article about the forgotten human beings who are imprisoned and abandoned – those with serious mental illness, who are unstable and harming themselves, or trying to take their own lives, who are sentenced to prison by the Norwegian state, but who are confronted with isolation and lack of health care. This is a dark side of public health and a scourge for Norwegian criminal justice. It is a sacred principle that health care should be provided as necessary, regardless of background. Imprisonment should have the same access to health care as others, but it is not available to them today. Isolation is not, and will never be, the treatment of mental illness, but can, on the contrary, lead to mental illness. International rules state that children and mental ills should not be isolated on smooth cells. The Central Party believes that we cannot tolerate the fact that we in Norway have a practice against mentally ill people in prisons that are in conflict with international and fundamental human rights laws. It is well known that many inmates have mental disorders. I expect that about four out of ten have anxiety sufferers, 12 pst. is suicidal and 4 pst. is psychotic. Norway is high on the statistics on suicide in prison. Why doesn't the government grab hold of it? We have an amazingly developed health care system. How can it be that they are not at the highest risk and with the greatest need? A health care system that fails the most delayed is a poor health system. A criminal hospital where serious mental illness is isolated and provided missing health care is incurable. Desperately added to prison describe such circumstances as inhumane, and that's what they are. In order to strengthen the provision of health in criminal services and to prevent unnecessary use of coercion and isolation, more measures need to be taken, such as: to obtain an overview of the use of force. So far, the media have been supporting this information. The supervisory arrangements must work. Here the Minister of Justice has promised to take action, but arrived very late. We need more resource teams and more. We need organized construction and new institutions that can provide care, not just health care. And we need to look at what we can do for doomsday with chronic severe mental illness. The reduction of bed places in psychiatry makes it more difficult to prioritize health care for mentally ill people in prison. At the psychiatric clinic in Sandviken Hospital, over 300 seriously mentally ill patients have been laid down this time this year. We have submitted a Document 8 proposal to stop this. We also have 60 million. DKr in our budget for 2019 to start work to provide prisons with more humane conditions and better health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1055	It's good with some temperature in the debate. When I look over the hall here, it's probably just the representatives Jan Bøhler, Dag Terje Andersen, Per Olaf Lundtegen and myself who have been both in opposition and in position, perhaps especially in the case of the Justice Budget. It's a little special when a positionist is accused of boasting too much of the justice budget – we live on another planet, we praise the budget in the clouds, and we are accused of expounding the challenges and referring to many newspaper headlines. My goal of referring to some headlines from 2008 to 2013 was to show that there were previous challenges in the justice sector. Government parties are fully aware that there are challenges, both in terms of police, criminal law and justice. But to claim from this pulpit that there is a crisis with next year's justice budget – well, for me, crisis is a strong word to use when one knows that there is a huge increase in the justice budget. I remember that also former Prime Minister Stoltenberg stood on the pulpit and defended his budgets by saying that there has never been so much money allocated to, for example. health services before – there has never been so much money. It's the position's ability to say that yes, there's never actually been more money allocated to the police and the justice sector than today. But there are challenges, which I am very happy that the government is also following. Police operational budgets have been strengthened by more than 3 billion. since this government joined. The free resources for the police were strengthened by nearly 300 million in 2017. kr, this year with almost 100 million, and all of this is going on. So it's a reinforcement. When the representative Gülsvik talks about preparedness and the debate we had a few weeks ago, I would like to stress that the government took seriously the criticism that came there. But the previous government didn't do much either, and I also record that in the budget proposals for the next year from the other parties it is not exactly on the preparedness side that there is a strengthening of the strength that the government has already provided. We also need to discuss the reconciliation queues, and there are several people who have been up in the pulpit and have heard greetings about the closure of prisons. But when the crime scene changes and those who are going to zone in the future, maybe you're going to face more severe punishments with closed places, we don't need all the open places. But I am also very clear to the Minister of Justice that when we are about to put open spaces, we also need to look at what offers are being made, and it is important to look at the offers that have good results. At the same time, however, it is important that employees are taken care of in this process of conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1070	A number of cases in the media in the autumn have revealed a very unwise practice in the collection industry, which is also a conflict with good collection practices. There have been cases where small amounts, often only a few $10 bills, have grown in a short time to claim several thousand dollars. It has been revealed that the industry provides loans and credit to people who should not have received it, and that the clerk and the tax collector are used as cash collectors on a large scale. Hundreds of thousands of things end up every year with the namsman. The lawyer in Oslo indicates that he almost drowns in matters, often – as I said – it is small amounts that are demanded. The debt collection agency is going to be the last resort when people don't settle for themselves. There shall be no shortest path to easy money for the collection business. With new technology and new legislation, it has become increasingly automated and increasingly easier for the debt collection industry to make a lot of money in debt collection. This has been the subject of a unanimous opinion of the Judicial Committee by way of comments. One says in the setting today: ‘The Committee has also reported that Norwegian debt collection companies have among the world’s highest rates, providing the most profitable collection industry in the world.’ One goes on to say: ‘Even compared with other Nordic countries, Norway is at a significantly higher level.’ And then one concludes with the following: ‘The Committee will therefore ask the Government to implement the measures necessary to ensure that the level of collection rates is reduced.’ What's going on? In fact, while we are having a debate here today, the Ministry of Justice has a hearing where the conclusion is that one should not increase the rates further, but there is no indication of either the meeting or the Minister of Justice who speaks in the media that the rates should be reduced, as a unanimous judicial committee clearly states. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to come up to the pulpit and explain why he is not following up a clear and clear signal from a unanimous judicial committee, which says that now there must be a grip on the debt collection industry, and make sure that one gets to the end of the huge profits that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1092	The representative Petter Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1097	Several representatives have addressed the situation with the serious mental illness that is being isolated in prison. SV has submitted a very concrete document 8 on how to deal with that situation. And I have to say now, because we have two representatives from the Right and the Center Party here in the Chamber, Frida Melvær and Kjersti Toppe, that those parties are failing in this case. The parties to the Government do not intend to follow up on what is contained in this proposal, as is now understood. The case has not been processed, so we cannot cancel everything, but the signals go that way. The centre party, based on the signals I have received, provides defensive or relatively passive support for this. So I react a little when two representatives with a big and warm heart go up and talk about this situation, but not follow it up politically, when the matter is actually being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1106	It is important to present the positive option to what is happening in the police today. Then the Council of State can look to Kongsberg. He can see the station manager, Håvard Revå, who goes first on the 17th of May train, the servants who go smiling with the boss, older ladies and young Russian girls who throw themselves around his neck, and pictures are taken. It's amazing. The police are popular, almost popular heroes. It's a success. The police have many informers, many who help the state policemen free of charge, and who are doing preventive work that allows the police to give warnings, not constantly setting up cases. It's quality, and it's cheap. It's prevention. They have a fantastic reputation. The management of the police in Kongsberg created this by being constantly changing and taking care of what was needed out there among people. The Centre Party's police model requires good manning, skilled professionals, good practice in practical situations, modern equipment and digital technology, and not least professionals who think and take responsibility. I underline it – think sea and take responsibility. It is to those degrees underestimated in all education today. It needs an operational management, a trust reform. There is a need for a team that combines prevention, patrol, investigation, civilian missions and police reception. In smaller places, there are fewer people, but there's still a team, it's still local management. One has a dynamic management, with a boss who always prioritizes what is most important in society, in line with overriding purposes. It's incredibly important. What happened to Kongsberg was that it was to be further centralised by ending up at the passport office there. From being able to drop in, there would be long queues with orders for 4,500 people who had to travel from Kongsberg to get passports. Chief of Police Fossen proposed it and received support from the government. The debate has been going on for months. The whole Kongsberg community shook its head. The local government, with rapporteur Sand from the Central Party at the head, used all channels. The business sent a message and did not reach the message. It was only ten days ago that the ears of the government were so hot that one had to give up. There should be encouragement for more people and show that hard work is beneficial. The central part model is about to decentralize. Police have to get back to people, with two servants per capita at municipal level. Together with trade unions and committed citizens, we must work purposefully to get this through, through our many rapporteurs who respect local democracy. It becomes quite wrong when fire and rescue have to take over tasks that the police and ambulance have, from a centralized state. It's not the big crowd's expressed will, but that's the consequence if we keep going like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1117	The representative, Mrs Lagen Waogslid, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1122	The former law and the order-party Progress Party gave a job guarantee to everyone who went out of the Police Hill. In September 2018, 12 p.m. by the students got a regular job in the police. It cannot be black measurement to point to. Criticism must be a tolerance when one sits in government. The reduction of the operational situation and the freedom of action of the police districts by half a billion in four years, documented by Menon Economics in its own report ordered by the Ministry of Justice and Defence, cannot be a black poll. It's criticism one should take on board. I would like to make a brief explanation of vote on the so-called loose proposals that have been put forward. Proposal No. 7 and 8 from the Center Party support us subsidiaryly. Proposal No. 9 votes in favour. SV's proposal No. 11 we also vote in favour. SV's proposal No. 10 we do not vote in favour, then we my proposal No. 7 from the Center Party is cut better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1129	For the sake of the representative Tage Pettersen, insofar as the representatives of Schou, Leirstein and Wiborg, I must read aloud from the position, from a note that the Right and the members of the Progressive Party are behind. It says: ‘These members endorse the government’s proposal not to initiate the investigation of investments in new PHS premises now.’ I may have to read it again, but we'll see. That's what the Right Party and the Advance Party are behind, that's what the Right Party and the Advance Party are supposed to do with the Police College – nothing. There's nothing to do with the Police College. Then I register that the representative Pettersen is trying to turn it over to say that he hopes the Workers' Party will be involved in the solution. What solution then – to do nothing? No, it's not supposed to be part of the Workers' Party. We have our own comments that say very clearly that we see the need for a new police high school and want to get on with it. The government doesn't. To be honest, I think it's an unprofessional performance of the representative Tage Pettersen to come here and give the impression that they're trying to make the very opposite of what they're really doing. It's Trump rhetoric, now also from the Right. That other parties in this room are doing it, we've been given so much proof, but also the Right now sees the need to run pure Trump rhetoric in order to explain away, to turn away from them that they're not going to do anything, it's unprofessional. But it shows that the representatives Pettersen, Schou, Leirstein and Wiborg have no influence on their own government. They were not even able to follow up what the government thought in the draft budget presented last year, where there was a more positive attitude. Now the investigation of investment into new police high school is only pushed out into a large, empty, dark nothing. They boast that they have brought a lot of good to the table, not least for Eastfold. Yes, they've brought a lot of things to Eastfold – they've brought down the air passenger charge, which put down a whole airport, they've brought the sugar charge, which put hundreds of jobs in jeopardy, they've coerced Eastfold counties with two other counties, and now they're serving at the top of it all no police high school. This is what these representatives have been involved in bringing to Eastfold. This government has not been a good deal for the country, nor has it been a good deal for Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1149	One of the characteristics of the rule of law is that all people have equal access to justice, to get justice and to be treated fairly. The Committee as a whole states that free legal assistance is an important legal guarantee. But when we look at the numbers, we see that the free legal aid has become smaller and smaller in scope, and that's because it hasn't been income-regulated in many years. This means that there are a lot of people who are now falling out of the system, i.e. who cannot use it, but they also do not have an income that allows them to deal with their legal affairs in any way – and risk being left with a lot of expenses to a lawyer and perhaps even to the trial. So this is a serious matter for the legal certainty of society. I'm not so surprised that the Progress Party doesn't care so much about this, but I'm very surprised that the Right doesn't see it. This is a serious problem that threatens the legal certainty of many citizens of the country, but it is probably part of the inequality policy. I guess no one believes that those who sit at the bottom of the table and have the least need to assert their rights in court than the others have. We see that you have a lot of money, you use the justice system a lot – you take a little risk seam, of course, but there is nothing to say that if you have a lot, you need to use the justice system more than if you have little. It is also the case that free legal aid does not even cover part of the arrangements that hit people at the bottom of the table the most, and that there is a need to expand both in volume and in matters in the future if we are to talk at all about a guarantee of legal certainty. So for defence, there's been a lot of things in the last year. It's terrible to say that you're almost happy about it, but it's good that it comes for a day that the arrangement hasn't worked at all. It has been announced for a long time, that people take consent skills so that it is not in line with the law that has been. The county officials have reported this to the Ministry of Justice, I have read the reports, and they have reported on this for a long time, but there has been no impact in the Ministry of Justice, it has not been a priority. It is a serious legal security problem, for these are people who need decision support and community support to be able to take care of their interests. They must be sure that the State and its apparatus do not exert any violence against their legal security.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1158	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1164	I am pleased that a Joint Judicial Committee recognises that we need to put in place measures to combat criminal gangs in Oslo that create community insecurity in several urban areas. Many of the criminals are young people between the ages of 15 and 18 against whom the police are being coerced. The Central Party believes that we need to provide the police with the means to combat juvenile crime quickly and effectively, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty for young people. Today, therefore, we have made proposals for a simplified personal survey to be carried out on youth issues between 15 and 18 years of age, in line with the wishes of the police. Personal survey is currently referred to as a time thief, and a simplified personal survey could improve the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. I had hoped that we could have an overall decision on this. Unfortunately, it looks like the government parties are righting it down. But we can hope that they turn around in the last minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1173	The representative, Frida Melvær, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1178	I have a brief comment for the representative of Bohemia on shelters. I agree that upgrading and maintaining shelters has not been a satisfactory priority of changing governments after the cold war. The lack of follow-up has led to a very poor refugee situation today. The current security policy situation shows that we need to change our priorities in relation to these. At the same time, trade unions point out that the traditional thinking about, among other things, location and construction may be out of date. The accessibility feature has probably been changed based on today's risk and vulnerability image. When we do not agree with the proposal, it is primarily about the government now following the 2016 draft, and through the DSB, it has seen work being done on the impact and cost analysis of the recommended measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1187	In the budget debate today, there has been a lot of talk and discussion and squabbling about numbers and sums, and it always belongs in a budget debate. But I also want to raise my eye and talk about a lot of what is happening, which is not necessarily about money. Much is also about political will, the power of action, and I want to bring forward some of the issues that have been implemented in recent years, which are going on now. The matter I want to start with is the removal of the limitation period for killing, rape and assault on children, which means a lot to the victims affected by this. They often need time before they dare to come out with what they have been exposed to. It also took ten years before enough political pressure caused new criminal law to be implemented in 2015. The removal of the cows is another thing. Although it's about money, it's also about the ability to think outside the box, think differently when it comes to both doubling cells and expanding within existing walls – which gave political results. One thing that I record is that many in the opposition here have also talked a lot about, is the closure of spaces, low-risk areas, which you no longer need now that the queues have been removed. But there are few from the opposition who have mentioned the government's efforts to actually remove the reconciliation queue, from over 1,200 to about 100 now. Another thing I would like to highlight is the establishment of a national cyber crime centre, which is also about money, but it's also about thinking ahead. We have to take seriously the fact that the crime scene around us is changing. More and more of the crime we see is happening online, on the cyber domain, is more hybrid by nature, and it's important that we have the sharpest minds, the latest knowledge and also the best means of dealing with the crime where it happens, and where trends show that it's going to happen even more in the future. I would also like to mention another matter from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This applies to debt collection salaries. An overall committee has asked the government to look at the possibility of lowering salaries. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice himself has said that one needs and wants – and now is doing – a review of the collection industry in general to look at the payroll level, if necessary, but also to look at what is good collection practices. Recent cases have shown that this is necessary. Although these are matters that may not have received the most attention in the justice debate, I wanted to bring these forward, and not least the issues of political action and not just money and figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1200	The representative Geir Inge Lien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1205	The goal of two policemen per thousand inhabitants has almost been reached, the government party boasts with the support of the Christian People's Party. At least it's not like that in the whole country. I just want to remind you that in More and Rome there are 1.45 per 1,000, so the number is far from being reached. We in the Center Party are very concerned that we should not weaken where they have reached their goal, but that this must be a goal for the whole country. Today, we see that a person is moving resources from the Länsmann offices to the cities to do a job – because of the police reform. We get a lot of newspaper reports that reported issues about the choice in close relationships are going on for a long time, up to 566 days. We have also felt the announcement from the police officer that one of them would have to work smarter. But we need resources. Money is needed to strengthen all districts in Norway and not just central districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1212	The representative Solvency Horne has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1217	Several have been involved in the escalation plan against violence and abuse, which is an important tool to combat violence and abuse, especially against children. I'm very pleased that next year's bet has increased by 166 million. kr, and that the total bet for both this year and next year is about 1 billion. kr. I also want to point out that I am very happy that we have managed to put the earmarked 10 million in place. kr to several prosecutors, who will help in the cases in which children have been subjected to violence and abuse. There is a great effort to combat violence and abuse in the budget. Then I just want to comment on the comment from the Workers' Party and the proposal on compensation for victims of violence. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, had their own proposal on this matter in June, and in our note now we are very clear that we expect the government to follow up that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1226	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1231	The representative Gulati wonders that the Labour Party does not boast that the government used up to 1 billion. Dr. to send prisoners to the Netherlands and then to put prisons in Norway. It falls on its own unreasonableness. It is good to hear the representative Horne discuss the value of what is being done in the prisons now proposed. But I can't understand the logic that this aspect of criminal justice becomes superfluous in the future because there will be new and serious crime. It's not exactly like those who end their sentence in open prisons today are in jail because of boys' strokes and small-times. This is precisely why the Workers' Party is promoting a proposal for a NOU, so that we, together with the employees, along with the trusted and the professionals, could get a broad review before we put down any prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1238	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1244	Representatives of the government parties are concerned that we are using the word crisis in this debate. It's a crisis. It reports people from all over the country, and it also reports people who work in the police throughout the country. In 11 out of 12 police districts, there is clear feedback. It's not just because there's too little resources, but also because someone's using the resources wrong. Trustees in the police indicate that it's bureaucracy. A new level of leadership is created, while a weakens the first line – the job you're supposed to do to people. People don't get through on the phone to the police, the police don't show up, and if they show up, they come too late. The Right Party and the Advance Party point out that one should have the police armed in response. It'll help very little with the armed police if they get there when the situation is over. Instead, there are firefighters out in the municipalities who have to take the job. The bills are sent to the municipalities, and firefighters are put in a situation they do not want to be in, and they are not trained to be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1251	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1256	It was the representative, Petter Eide, who had a small visit on mental health care measures in prison, and who referred to a representative proposal for treatment. It is difficult to comment on it because it is not public until the setting has been set. My point was that today we are dealing with the state budget for next year, and in this state budget, the Central Party has prioritised a total of 60 million. DKr for health care for prisoners in Norway – 50 million. NOK 10 million under the auspices of the specialist services department. kr to strengthen the provision of the municipal health service in Norwegian prisons. That's what was my point about the post: defending that priority. Finally, I would like to refer to loose proposal No. 7, from the Center Party, about Osterøy and Ulvsnesøy. That is exactly the same proposal made by the Christian People's Party on this matter one year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1265	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1270	First, I want to correct a delay in the previous article. The correct thing is probably two police officers per thousand inhabitants at municipal level. In the Labour and Social Committee, everyone talks about the need for better rehabilitation and open reconciliation. Open settlement is seriously underestimated by serious crime. Work training is then the key, meaningful work, hard work. That gives respect. Many people perceive it with work training as hard. Obviously, because when you've been in prison, you're not as anchored in the work as someone else would be. Therefore, these open areas are essential. We need more of them, not less. It is completely wrong to put down, among other things. Hassel prison in Scotland. If you had a better management there, and had come up with a good plan, you could show even better results than those that are. What the government is doing is, therefore, fundamentally wrong and contrary to what is happening in the Labour and Social Committee, where everyone is talking well about better rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1279	For SV, it is important to maintain higher capacity in the lowthreshold prisons. In Hedmark, we have, among other things, Bruvoll, who is a good prison. I now hear that the government and the majority want to use more electronic compensation. For some it can be okay, but not for everyone at all. It brings me to an area where more electronic control should be put in place, and it is in violence against women living in fear, doing so for a long time, calling the police and perhaps not getting help, while everyone knows who is the terrorist. For many years SV has been fighting for electronic control of the perpetrator, and there is little in place, but too little, and things are going too slow. There is also a need to extend the criminal provisions that may be covered by this instrument. It is absolutely necessary that the perpetrator should bear the burden of what is being done, and that it is not the perpetrator of violence who has to walk around with the alarm and be careful and have limitations in his action radius. Here the government and the bulk of the population could really do a lot more, but it's going really slow. Control of women is an important factor – from the big world policy to the family. That is why the proposal is no. In Norway, for example, 11 out of SV, important, have the opportunity to prosecute them. engage in sexual violence in war. Last week the Nobel Prize was awarded to Nadia Murad, a victim, and Denis Mukwege, a doctor, who points out that this impunity is one of the reasons why it continues. We don't know what Norway has done in this area, but that this criminal code is in place, we know, because I worked on it 20 years ago, when I got into the Storting. It's in place, but what kind of role will Norway take on in this field? It is important that countries such as Norway use this opportunity to join and persecute those who commit these atrocities in war and conflict. Everything we can't do here, but we can do an important job to show that we're using the possibilities we have to get these terrible abuses punished. That is why I call on the majority in Stortinget to vote in favour of SV's proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1288	The representative Peter Frölich has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1293	I thought it was Christmastime you used to play Monopoly. I see that the Center Party in its alternative budget in the fall has stolen the game. Everyone understands that alternative budgets cannot have the same financial certainty as a budget that has been minted by the Ministry of Finance in a year, but there may be limits. The centre party has taken shortcuts with the budget before. We remember how they would save hundreds of millions of dollars on the Netherlands agreement, which might well end up with a pinch. The new thing in this year's budget is that they're going to save hundreds of millions on cutting red tape. So incredibly simple: we are rid of bureaucracy and even bureaucrats – forget questions like how to cancel them, and who should do the tasks. The absence of realism is so total. I know it's a worn-out comparison, but they might as well have tweeted that they're going to build a wall that Mexico is going to pay for, and that they're going to make the police great again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1298	The President makes the point that it's almost Christmas, and then we can all play Monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1303	Governments and governments are still talking about everything going well, but it must go much, much better. Security is about the seventh and last experiences of people. In Valdres, unfortunately, we get more and more experiences that show that things don't get better. When you call the emergency services and get to the central table now, they no longer have local knowledge and an overview of where different events occur, or where you are when you try to explain – despite coordination and centralisation that would improve emergency centres. Once it is clear where you are, the police will carefully assess whether the situation is serious enough to send a car. In the Inland police district, Norway’s largest geographical size, residents of Vang municipality experienced that the police would not send cars because the severity was not perceived as large enough. Then the married couple Hagerup had been awakened in the middle of the night by an excruciating and violent man. An stranger had entered their house and was clearly rushing and unpredictable. Civil protection was safer, and neighbors came to help. The fire service was also in readiness, but without proper means to render the uninvited guest harmless. It evolved to become more and more uncomfortable, and finally the police sent one police officer, who came to the place and assessed the situation further, and then another car, with more police officers, who could clean up the situation. It is impossible for me to reproduce the horror of the people involved, and how frustrating it was not to be taken seriously when they called 112. Too often, the fire service is first at the scene of the accident. We have to ask: is it the municipality or state that is to ensure the preparedness of our country? When the police have then taken care of the offenders in pig-grown strikes, they have to assess whether the situation is bad enough, the crime is serious enough, so that they can spend several hours driving him in the arrest, or if they should not, and rather drive him home. The police can be on wheels, but not the arrest. They need funds to mannify the services and premises they need. The more central strokes need funds to follow up the crimes they get on their table. The number of decrees in Oslo is serious and shows that the police need to prioritise tougher than what is proper. Ordinary watchkeeping is also a field where Oslo and several cities and towns see more and more serious cases every single weekend without the capacity to take hold. Instead, the department will force the weight industry into action. The representative Frölich spoke to save, among other things. Student communities, volunteering and cultural life a year ago, but a year has passed, and Christmas doesn't seem to bring more gifts from the Right this year than last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1316	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1322	In my first post today, I talked about black paint from the opposition, and I think the debate has just illustrated this. The representative Gülsvik has repeatedly talked about a complete crisis in the police throughout the country. Well, I record that the police director who just went off, Odd Reidar Humlegård, has said that despite the challenges of the police, there is no crisis. I'm recording that the Police Joint Union in meetings with the government fraction at Stortinget says that despite both challenges and wish lists, it's not a crisis in the police. It is possible that my sense of humor is poor, but I wonder if no more people also see the comic in the representative of Aasen-Svensrud, when her own party left behind a paycheck of 1,200 people. She criticises some of the tools that got rid of these queues, and now she also criticises the government when you put down empty prisons that you don't need. That's a lot of criticism. I wish we heard a little more praise for the results as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1331	One of the most important roles of the nation state is to take care of the security of the people, and then is the preparedness we provide out there? who will be present first if something goes wrong? unusually important. It is not without reason that the Minister of Justice has the highest responsibility in the event of a crisis. It is precisely in that context that preparedness is important, but also legal certainty and the need for people to feel safe in such a situation must be safeguarded. Former Justice Ministers have been more or less aware of their first role in a possible crisis situation, but I have recorded that the current Minister of Justice has at least got it. That's good, because people out there feel more and more insecure, and that's what the description of a police crisis is about. It's about people feeling that the police are not there where they want to, or when they want and need to. Still more often we get reports that it is the municipal fire service that is first in place. We have a requirement for a call-out time for fire, but we don't have that when it comes to, for example. Ambulance or the time to expect from the police. So we have a density percent. The representative, Lundtigen, often holds up the goal of being two policemen per thousand inhabitants of a municipality, as a good goal, but it is important to remember in this context that many places we will have to get higher, precisely because the police will reach all, and then the area to be covered within a police district is crucial. The police coverage rate around the country is, for example, higher in the north than it is in other parts of the country just because of the large distances. However, even in relatively central parts of e.g. My own home country people feel that the police are not coming – not even when there are people on the door with axe, which we all remember just a few years ago. It's not taking people's needs for preparedness and security seriously. That's why the Center Party has been clear that we want to strengthen the local police present, among other things. by increasing the operating resources by half a billion dollars. It would at least be a start on the way we have to go if we wanted to achieve an objective that everyone should have access to reasonable police coverage once the crisis is over. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is important that legal certainty be ensured also in the more far-reaching strokes, and I am therefore pleased that the Centre Party finds room to actually change the travel instructor for lawyers, precisely in order for more people to be able to take part in free legal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1342	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1347	It's rare we hear it singles so violently in the glass house as when the representative Frølich is up and talking about creative budgeting. Thus, the government has implemented these flat cheese relations, the so-called ABE reform, in many parts of the public sector, including the United States. also in the courts, without prioritising what is to be done up or down. There are several billions who have been cut in this way, without the government being bothered with or the political responsibility for what it is to be prioritised down. You're just saying that you're going to spend less money on the different public agencies. The courts are one of them. Nav is another one. There are many of these cuts that are purely disclaimer and creative budgeting from the government. I hope that you might be a little bit more sober in dealing with both numbers and arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1356	It was the representative Frülich who made me draw for another post. I must say that I am excited that Frölich has managed to say that the Central Party's alternative budget exceeds the government's proposals when it comes to fresh funds in the field of justice. It is commendable that the representative has read it. But I have to stress that in this context, it is particularly noticeable that the government parties have not come up with the idea that the Central Party's cut-off proposal is about moving funds from the central link to the decentralised link, i.e. those who carry out the police task. It should have been a main objective of the representative Frülich, who comes from a party that was at least previously very concerned with cutting red tape, but I register that it no longer applies. I find that very wonderful. The centre party's line on this issue has been clear for a long time, and so this alternative draft budget follows it up. You want to move the services out where they are actually produced, which are the closest possible people, and not keep them inside the central bureaucracy. It is much more appropriate to implement bureaucrats at the central stage in order to increase preparedness there than to keep them in the key functions. No matter how we discuss this up and down, and what kind of role the various bureaucrats now considered, possibly within it, there is no doubt that the Police Directorate has increased violently, while the police out there do not see the same increase in resource access when they are going to do the work and do outreach and prevention activities. It draws a picture of a government that is most concerned with boasting of statistics and increasing the number of bureaucrats in the Directorate, and does not ensure that the police get proper tools and enough crew to exercise what we all want to give, namely a safer society in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1367	I've been trying for some years to get attention here in Stortinget through interpellations, questions and suggestions on organized crime and recriminalism. I am very pleased that in the last six months – even after documentation in the media and in books that have come – it has reached an agreement in most parties to address it. Several parties are also in the process of making proposals. I was a little surprised that the Right's main approach to the thread discussion here today was to criticise the red-greens for wanting to control the detail of the police. I believe that we have come further than that. I think we've started talking about concrete proposals for what to do. I would like to say how I believe that we should be able to direct the police in the right direction on those points. The first is what is called the marshy soil to the police, or the letter of assignment to the police, which the Minister of Justice sends out at the turn of the year, in January/February, from the budget we are adopting here today. Previously, under the red-green government, organized crime and criminal gangs were a main priority, but it was gone from the letters of assignment in 2014/2015. I would urge the Minister of Justice, as a result of the discussions on organised crime and recriminalism in recent months, to reintroduce it among the priorities of the police districts where this is a major problem. It's not just Oslo police district. Among other things, in eastern police districts — which have areas north of Oslo, where there has been a population environment for many years, which is now developing — there has been no use of resources in this area. It is important that more police districts receive such a clear message. The second control signal I believe it is important that we give, is that the money is the key to the repeat business. It's the money that's the engine. It's subtracted $38 million. kr from crime from the 1st tertiary this year. Taking more money is a key that the police have to give up in another way. There are two studies on action — one from 2014, on how the agencies can work together to address priority objects, for example: reprisals, follow their finances, and an investigation that came in 2016, on civil law withdrawal, which is an easier way of withdrawing funds. Some of them include: Representatives from the government parties have talked about in the media, about taking a bling and so on, can be done in a more direct way if you follow up that investigation. The third thing I want to say about how we can govern is that we should now have learned – after the meetings of the Justice Committee, among others. with the Riksadvokat – that the effort against recriminalism cannot be turned on and off. That's what we mean when we say that org. the Krim unit in Oslo, the form of work to be carried out year after year, continuously, cannot be switched on and off. That's our main criticism at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1378	Representative Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1383	The left does not sit in the Justice Committee, so I thought I would take the opportunity to thank the budgetary colleagues for their good comments – and not least the Justice Committee for a good debate here in the Chamber. I would also like to say at the end that I am pleased that the current Minister of Justice has said that we do not have Swedish conditions in Norway. I'm very happy about that. It's another Swedish state we don't want to welcome in Norway, and that's general armament. We in the Left want to keep the civil character of the police, and that's a lot of good arguments for it. At the same time, there are other Swedish states that we in Norway should be able to consider. It is just about something that has been affected in this debate, and there are debt collection rules across the border, in Sweden. Maybe that's something we can learn more from. I am pleased that the government and the Minister of Justice have put down a sample to look at this, because there are examples of what we should not have in Norway, which the media have brought forward. As stated in this mandate, the time has come to take a closer look at its rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1392	I have followed the discussion here today with great interest, and I have not intended to challenge the Minister of Justice any more on the subject matter of object protection. I have, as I said in my previous post, learned that it can be a little dangerous when you don't have a script. But I think there's been an interesting discussion about social security and security in society at all. Many have raised the many deaths of prisons based on local experience and experience with what they can still contribute. Many have mentioned the situation that people call for help without getting help — either because they don't get a response on the phone, or because the police resources are very far away from where the events take place. And we've heard a diversity of how the police today are perceived out there in reality. Then I think it is striking that we are going to the end of a long debate on an important area of society without any comments from the Council of State at all. I think that's disappointing, because there are people from both the positions and opposition parties who have been very involved in their affairs, who address everyday problems people have in the community. And what they are being met with is a Minister of Justice who has nothing to say about the current debate – except in the main post he held and in the subsequent line exchange. I think many of those who have raised serious questions here in the Chamber deserve answers to the issues they have raised, in respect of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1401	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1406	I would like to thank the representative Melvær, who is the only one who has commented on what I think is a big question – how we contribute to the security of the population, and the matter of shelter. The problem is that that investigation came in May 2016. I have in Stortinget regularly requested the follow-up of it. Now it's been two and a half years, and there's not yet one word about it in the state budget. I hope that will be a priority in the matter, and as I said, we are promoting proposals today. There is one thing I would like to make aware of in what we are dealing with today, and the proposals for that. It's about how we're planning the police capacity in the future. The government parties have a note on this, warning that, based on ‘an investigation into the competence and capacity needs of the police’, a wholesale notification will be provided. I just want to say that there is no such investigation. What you're referring to is a short note with some computational examples, but there's no investigation into what the police are doing, about everything we've ordered the police to work with in Norway, and what capacity it will require. I would like to encourage you to carry out an investigation and not just build on such a short calculation example as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The store is now taking a break on occasion. The store's Christmas ounce, and the meeting will be returned at exactly the same time. 3:30. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 13.42. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30. President: Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1442	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1451	I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation on the proposition that deals with changes in the current year's government budget. The proposition addresses many – I had almost said exotic – small issues. Among other things, there has been a decrease in the costs of collection of ancillary expenditure in the Land Change Courts, and there has been an increase in PST expenditure on security measures relating to the NATO General Secretary’s meeting in Norway. Furthermore, there has been a slight decrease in the need for interpreters in relation to asylum cases in the UDI. Then there's a little bit of a famous section on page 5 of the proposition that says something about how the future passport structure is going to be in Norway. This is the way – as is natural – that the government has the power to determine both the lumni office structure and the functions of the individual lumni offices or the various offices, but I still assume that there will be a debate related to the proposed changes at this point. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1460	This is a matter that creates a lot of debate because one in this proposition is adding up a number of passport offices. There is a well-known debate. The size has been clear in the past that you have wanted to deal with this in a matter of your own. The opposition is also clear in the comments that we had seen that this matter had been dealt with in another way. I hear it is said from the positioning party that the Labour Party and the Center Party do not take the issue of passports seriously enough in terms of security. Of course, passports must be issued in a safe way, so that they do not end up in the hands of a criminal environment in order to be used for ID robbery, fraud and serious crime. What this case is about now, from the Labour Party's side, is that we my government doesn't take the Storting seriously enough. One treats the Judiciary Committee as a stamping office for matters one would rather not talk about: as the closure of a passport office. In addition to not taking that responsibility, I understand that one is pushing ahead with the International Civil Aviation Organisation of the United Nations, ICAO, and that one is pushing the National Audit Office, the country's security and the people's security ahead of them – the last in the form of comments on the case of the Workers' Party and the Centre to be irresponsible when they do not take into account security requirements when criticising the government for the decision that has been taken. So big a word suggests that the government parties themselves have rather poor arguments in their case. For, from the time of government, new international guidelines from ICAO have been repeatedly referred to which many of the smaller passport offices need to be decommissioned. But it's not like that. ICAO does not require the number of applications to be accepted by each case handler. On written questions from representative Jenny Klinge, the Council of State confirms just the following: ‘ICAO does not have quantified procedural requirements, but underlines that all case handlers who are to receive applications and verify the identity and basic documents of the applicant shall have thorough and relevant training related to the verification of ID documents and assessment of other supporting documentation.’;» Thus, when the main argument we get against us is that the closure of passport offices is in line with the Police Directorate's new guidelines that each case handler should deal with at least 1000 passports annually, and that each office should provide a space between 4,000 and 5,000 passports each year. Nor is what is said about the criticism of the Riksrevision, which was led as an argument that the passport office should be shut down is correct. It is true that the police were criticised by the National Audit Office in 2015 for the safety of passports, but there were other issues than the number of passport offices and the number of passport applications received by each passport office or case handler every year. In fact, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV have put forward a proposal asking the government to maintain the current structure of passports until the Stortinge has dealt with a matter of future structure. I think it would make sense to do it in this case, so that we had done it in the way that the bulk of the population originally meant. I refer it to the proposal. The centre party has put forward a loose proposal in the Chamber, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox For the Labour Party's part, the proposal that is put forward in the vote is what we support. I think that proposal No. 2 is going to be a little bit on top of that, so we're not going to vote for proposal no. 2nd from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1478	The government has chosen to close to half of all passport offices throughout the country. It's the Center Party's strong against it. It's about ensuring an important service across the country and not pushing spending from the state to the inhabitants and the business community. Some try to dismiss the centralisation of the passport service with the fact that the passport is something you just need to renew every ten years. However, those who only need to travel to the passport office every ten years are quite fortunate. Last year, PF police officers assumed that if a family of three children had a valid passport at any time, they would have to visit the police for a period of 22 years in order to renew one or more passports for 16 of these years. This description of reality is in stark contrast to how the government tries to produce the situation. The reality is that many will have to spend an enormous amount of time on this, get out of work to renew the passport or take children out of kindergarten and school. Government parties are constantly pointing to new international safety requirements as justification for centralisation. However, the International Civil Aviation Organization, ICAO’s standard of passport issue, does not say how many passports each case handler or passport office will have to receive to ensure that it is good enough. This is what the Police Directorate has called for, and it is a clear example of Norway overcoming international demands. There is no international requirement for Norway to close half of our passport offices. The government suggests that there is no alternative to this massive closure of the passport office. Why not do the same as in other countries that comply with ICAO standards? In Portugal, for example, there are far more places than in Norway where people can obtain passports. In the United Kingdom, much of the passport issue is digitised. The government also adds that you can have a mobile passport office. If you can have a mobile passport office, I don't understand why you can't have a smaller passport office too. It seems that the cut in the passport services is more about government ideology, where everything should be “robust” and big to be good. However, when Jenny Klinge asked a written question a few weeks ago, the Council of State could not answer which passport offices had been wrong and missing at the passport issue in the last few years, which means that they have to be dropped. It is therefore not possible to say whether faults and defects or poorer safety apply more to small offices than to large ones. Why is the government so sure that only we get rid of a large part of the small offices, is the quality getting so much better? The need for empowerment has been promoted by many in this debate and there is a legitimate argument that changes are needed in the training of case handlers in order to meet safety requirements, but there is no argument to shut down 70 passport offices. The centre party believes that case handlers can also be good case handlers at a smaller passport office. They have no greater learning difficulties than case handlers at larger offices, and it must be fully possible to provide adequate training for those working at passport offices throughout Norway. Last year, the majority of the population decided that the government would file a case for the Stortinget on the structure of passport issuance. Instead, Stortinget was fed off with a comment in the revised national budget that did not say anything about which passport offices were to be closed. It was just a little bit about some general principles that the Police Directorate was supposed to use when deciding on the future of passport offices. It is part of the story that some passport offices were also adopted before this statement came to Stortinget. The Center Party thinks it's too thin. The centre party wants the matter presented to Stortinget. We do not want the government to drop the passport office until Stortinget has taken a decision on the matter. We propose to maintain the issue at all passport offices that the government will now close, in addition to restoring the issue at some passport offices that have recently closed, to a total of 65 passport offices. I'll bring it up to the Central Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1499	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1504	We were informed by the head of the Justice Committee and our secretary/advisor at the end of last week that this was going to be a matter of my own, and I must admit that I was a little surprised that we were going to set aside our own time to discuss the passport office structure in Norway. The debate that we have had for three hours before today, has, in my view, been about and highlighting far more important things, which we really did not get to the depths of. So I was a little in doubt, but I thought this deserved a debate, and hesitantly said yes to it anyway. I record that the Central Party is always good at promoting – I kept saying – its district policy agenda, as they do here. I'm not going to go into the details, because I mainly support the considerations and arguments of Lene Wagslid. Of course, SV is dependent on people having services where they live and not having to travel very far in order to do so. It creates good quality for people where they live, it's good for value creation, and it's good for well-being. It shouldn't be that people have to take a day or two off to get a passport, to report a case to the police, which we discussed an hour ago, or perhaps even worse, had to go very far to get to a rapist in order to take different tests if you've been so unlucky to get in such a situation. Of course, we need to secure local services, and then we'll have to discuss whether it's just a passport office that's the most important thing for us to ensure. But it's definitely a service we use at regular intervals. Special child still needs to have new passports. I think it's important to look at the sum of the services that are being centralised, and what kind of structure we want to have on it. Therefore SV supports proposal No. 1, which is about the government coming back with a complete consideration of what kind of structure you're going to have on this in the future. I think that is wise, and I believe that many of the proposals and observations on flexibility made by the representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, can be covered in such a proposal, because then the government will have the opportunity to see in different ways. Then I want to bring a tiny little heart attack: SV and the Center Party share a lot of district policy considerations. The centre party believes it is important to create value in the districts, but I am not willing to let it be that district policy considerations should trump any other perspective. The centre party is incredibly good at putting a district policy stamp on a lot of things and uses the concept of ‘centralisation’ in almost all debates in the Stortinget. I believe that we need to be able to discuss policies, we need to be able to discuss budgetary allocation, and we need to be able to discuss a number of arrangements and adaptations in Norwegian society without always putting the regional policy first and let it trump any other considerations. That is why we do not support the Central Party's own proposal here, because in my view it is a rigid proposal. The centre party is not willing to make any changes to the existing structure. It's just a matter of cementing an old structure, and we don't support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1517	Initially, I would like to say that this is primarily about social security. It's not like someone later to think that we've started with a centralization plan. We have started with a challenge related to social security and Norwegian passports. 30,000 passports disappear this year, and we don't know where most of them are. In addition, there's falsification. A Norwegian passport is an attractive passport to counterfeit, not only in Norway, but also elsewhere in the world. In addition, criticism comes from the National Audit Office. It's also important to stress that this isn't just about the old passport that we all have. We are talking here about the passport of the future, which is going to be much safer, and which is going to create a stronger bond between that passport and the carrier of the passport, so that it is easier to reveal fraud or that someone is carrying a passport that is not theirs. It's the new rules that create challenges for us. The UN International Aviation Organisation sets quality standards – they do not impose quantitative requirements, but they impose quality requirements that I think are natural to follow, otherwise we risk Norwegian passports not becoming valid. Regardless of those requirements, I believe that we have a responsibility to take account of social security, which goes far beyond following up UN requirements. That's what makes me ask these professional advices about what is going on in order to have good enough professional quality, and what is going on in order to place them so that we get good enough service in this. The new passports shall identify the carrier and passports, link them together and require a different type of procedure. We also have a completely new type of processing system, which needs to be protected, and we need to protect the premises in a different way in the future. In return, we want to meet a number of important service needs, by counting that there will be extended opening times – at least in periods – pre-booking opportunities, so you know when the passport can be picked up and printed, SMS notifications, so people know that the passport can go out on date, so that not everyone comes and has to change passports at the same time, and we want mobile devices that are protected well enough to be able to defend the new requirements. But again, this is primarily about social security, and it is the Police Directorate who has made recommendations on what they think we should do, and then made recommendations on where the location should be. It is not a proposal for centralisation, it is a proposal that takes social security seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1535	My question is actually quite short. I'm wondering what's standing in the way so that we could deal with this matter in a matter of our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1540	In principle, this is a matter for the Police Directorate, with the approval of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The main reason why this case is up in Stortingen today is that Stortingen has asked to be informed about it. It's not at this level it's natural, I think, to discuss passport offices and where the passport offices should be, but since the Stortinget has asked for it, we have chosen to come to Stortinget and tell about what is our plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1548	A small follow-up to the previous question: The majority of the population decided last year that the government would come back with a plan to issue passports in the new service structure. In response to written questions this year, Minister of Justice Listhaug said: ‘Single sites which issued passports are being closed due to the service structure resulting from the close police reform. In addition, no changes will be made to the sites issuing passports in a new service structure until the Storting has dealt with the issue.» In the revised national budget before the summer, there was only a comment from the Ministry on the principles to be used when determining the structure of passport issuance. This appeared more to be an orientation than a treatment. Does the Council of State consider this to have been dealt with by the Storting? Why can't the Stortinge decide what the passport issue structure should look like?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1558	In the revised national budget, we presented the principles that we considered to be the natural basis for an open discussion with the Stortinget. The Storting had views on it. There were opinions that we have taken further into account in the work that has taken place under the authority of the Police Directorate, and later at the Justice and Defence Department's table. So Stortinget has asked to come back to the matter. That's what we're doing now, this is reporting back to Stortinget. Because these passport offices are to be protected – object-secured, almost – it is important to have the structure as early as possible so that in the construction works, the conversions and the continuous siting of the justice sector, the future passport offices can be taken into account, so that the offices can be planned to ensure that they meet international standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1565	In the comments on the position we are currently dealing with, the government parties Right and Advance Party write that it is ‘an important task for any government sitting on the ground to use the Community funds as efficiently as possible’. Then they call the Center Party and the Workers' Party irresponsible. With regard to the use of Community funds, I believe that the government parties should not speak so loudly. I would like to remind you of the huge crack in the passport and ID project, which Stortinget was first informed about in spring. The total cost has increased from 218 million. NOK previously estimated, to a total of SEK 596 million. until 2020, which is approaching a triple. I would like to stress that the cost of passport issuance does not disappear even if they are not in the State budget. It's going to be individuals and businesses that take these costs. Is the Council satisfied that the cost of passport issuance is now shifted — from the state to private individuals and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1574	It has always been that the passport fee should cover the expenditure of the State with it. That's why if we save money on passports, it's not the money that we in the Ministry of Justice and Defence can spend on anything else. This shall be offset against the passport fee. But in any case, we have a responsibility to make sure that the costs are as low as possible. I feel that responsibility that we should take care of. I think the excesses and delays that have occurred are unfortunate in themselves, but it also shows some of the complexity of the new passports that we are now talking about – i.e. the new passports, not the passports that we were issued in the old days.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1581	The passport structure is something that people care about. There's something everyone needs – everyone needs to visit a passport office up to several times in life. The government has closed down a number of cannon offices. The size has decided that the remaining Länsmann offices should be strengthened, not weakened. The passport issuance function is an important function at a number of local janitors’ offices. If you put it down, I'd say it's a weakening of the office's tasks. Can the Minister agree that there is a weakening — not a strengthening — of the remaining janitor’s office by removing the passport issue function from many places?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1588	The important thing must be to strengthen social security. This is a plan and an action to strengthen social security, so that we simply know who is in Norway, and that we know that those who legitimise do so correctly. So it's important to separate this from the debate we have about janitorial offices, for which we have a different plan and a different motivation. No matter how many cannibal offices we had in Norway — whether we had created more or not, we would have had to take seriously the social security issue associated with Norwegian passports. I think the Center Party should too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1595	This is not a very critical question, for once. It's more of a question that gives the Council an opportunity for a deepening. The Council of State places great emphasis on the requirements of quality and social security around the passport printing system, and I have a very strong sense of and respect for that. It must be heavy weight. So the question is, is it that social security and quality requirements stand in the way of a highly decentralised structure? It's a long way to go what we're discussing today. And is it that the Council of State believes that social security and quality requirements mean that we have to have fewer places in the country where passports can be issued?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1602	The new passports are made by a biometric system that makes the passport and the person representing the passport interrelated. The issue of such passports requires an entirely separate competence, it requires an entirely separate procedural system, and it also requires a very good protection of the procedural system that is. The Police Directorate says that in order to be good enough to do this, you should issue at least 1000 passports, and perhaps one place should issue between 3000 and 4000 passports a year to have an environment that is qualitatively good enough for this. It's probably like with a lot of other things in this community, if you're talking about medicine or social security, that doing one thing often actually is something that makes you good, and better, in this. I have not sat down and said how many passports it is natural that a case handler issuer, but this is the recommendation we have received on a professional basis from the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1609	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1616	The center party is occupied by services near people, there's no doubt about it. Some in the hall here and in the government are trying to minimize the importance of putting down passports, and now half of the offices in the country are going down. The consequences may be large for both individuals and, in particular, the business community. For those who have a long journey, there is a high cost and a high amount of time spent. In my home municipality, Vestnes, we also miss the passport office. It is located between Ålesund and the municipality of Molde, and is often a download office for both places. We see that there are long waiting queues both in Ålesund and in Molde. We have important maritime shipyards like Vard Langsten, Aas Mek. Workshop, Salthammer and Solstrand – it is an incredibly strong business, and there are many who depend on the services provided by the Länsmannskontoret every day. Now it'll be a long way, and it'll be expensive. Being close to the population is important. The government is once again proposing that people in the districts be given large distances to services. The Government Party is trying to keep the discussion of passports separate from the discussion of police reform. But the decision as to where pass offices should be, weakens several of the rest of the Länsmann offices. If one cuts in even more services in these, there will be fewer people in the rest of the cannon offices than the Storting has decided it will be. So you're adding up to a weakening of today's janitor's office. Then I just want to say that last year the Storting made a decision that says: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ That's what we in the Center Party mean we don't do. The center party will strengthen the rest of the cannon offices and not weaken them. We want passport services near people, and we think that the government party has not had a good enough process to deal with why these passport offices need to be shut down. We in the Central Party believe that the case should be dealt with in Stortinget and be a matter here in a moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1632	In Finnmark and Nordland, only 71 pst. and 75 pst. by the population now a passport office within 45 minutes if the reduction of offices is adopted. The police director's professional recommendation is 45 minutes driving time. The situation in Finnmark and Nordland is significantly lower than in the rest of the country. In Oslo, 100 pst. by the population a passport office within 45 minutes, in the South-West police district 94 pst. and in the south-east police district 92 pst. Maybe that's good enough for the government? For the part of the Nordic region, moving the passport mail from the Ørne County Länsmannskontor to Bodø will lead to an unsustainable situation for the inhabitants of the Outer Salt. There is a clear deterioration in the service offered today to the inhabitants of the municipalities of Meløy, Rødøy and Gildeskall. For example, families with children who have to provide for the renewal of passports every two years will have a long way to go. I can give you an example. The journey time from the municipality centre in Rødøy to Bodø is two and a half hours by fast boat, with one departure per day. Total travel time is ten hours. From other Red Island circuits it will be up to six hours total travel time. By car you have to count at least six hours of travel. In addition, it is costly: a family of four has to pay $1,800 to get to and from Bodø–Rødøy by speedboat. There is also a expectation of good cooperation relations between the Länsmannskontoret and the three municipalities, and cooperation agreements have been signed. When passport delivery is weakened, contact with the public is significantly reduced. There is no question about the quality of the work that has been done at the Ørne Länsmannskontoret. They send out about 1000 passports and have good opportunities to keep the quality of the work up, so both the municipality and I do not understand that an office like this is going to be shut down. We have today an opportunity to do what the municipalities in the Outer Salt County ask us to do, namely to reverse this decision and to maintain the offer of passport shipping on the Ørnes which is today. I would encourage everyone to vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Then maybe Nordland gets slightly better statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1648	The question of the location of passport offices is difficult, and it is difficult to make all of them available. This time two important considerations have been weighed against each other. It's accessible to the public and security. The result was known as 78 passport offices. Norwegian passports are attractive documents and can be used for anything from fraud, social security abuse and ID theft to serious organised crime and terrorism. The National Audit Office has also, as you know, criticised the way Norwegian passports are issued, among others. one case manager can issue passports alone, without proper quality assurance. The requirements of the UN Civil Aviation Organisation are also not met today. The opposition only points out that the government does not maintain passport offices, but they do not at all problem that there is also an interest in security that we have to deal with. There are several passport offices in Norway which issue about 200 passports per year, i.e. 0,03 annual works. The technical recommendation of the Police Directorate to meet quality requirements is that each passport office should issue between 4000 and 5000 passports annually. We cannot completely ignore the professional recommendations we are given. Finally, I would like to point out that the government's solutions are not just reducing the number of passport offices. As the Minister of Justice explained instead, we have reached good compromises, among other things. we want to facilitate mobile solutions that can run in the areas of those that have the longest route. I think this is a good compromise. I am very pleased with the balance between safety and availability. The opposition only emphasises the importance of availability. It may be the privilege of an opposition to close its eyes to the more unpopular realities, but the most responsible one would have been to comment at least on the challenges of security and passport issuance. I choose to live well with this result and think that it would probably be quite similar if it were the opposition parties that had to make the decision. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is only every ten years that we must have passports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1661	The issue of passports affects people's everyday lives. Every year hundreds of thousands of Norwegians are to be issued a new passport. Only in Rome alone, where I live, it is issued well over 40,000 passports every year. When the parties in this room say that on a number of occasions the Center Party is focusing on centralization, that's quite right. Let's do that. This is because nearly half of the passport offices in Norway are shut down. One has already closed down a number of well-functioning cannon offices. One sees centralisation in areas by area. It must be possible to question what is the government's ambition for the rest of the county offices in Norway, when the Stortinget has said that all the remaining county offices will be strengthened after the police reform. What does that mean for the government? When the Minister of Justice and the representatives of the government parties go up here and say, "We cannot have passports at all of these offices, because we have to be object-proof if passports are to be issued, it must be safe if a passport is to be issued. Shouldn't you be safe in the other janitor's offices? There are investigators and preventers, and there people face up to the most serious things in their everyday lives. Is it not to be safe in the offices that are left after the reform? After massive centralisation, the point was that the remaining loner offices should be strengthened. Pass issuance is an important part of it. As far as safety is concerned, what is more secure? Just the locality is an important part of security when someone comes and will be issued passports at a local janitor’s office. There are preventers with knowledge. There are researchers with knowledge. There are people who have an overview of the treatment of both criminal and civil cases, and who can find out if there is any muffenness, and whether you might not want to issue that passport. It provides a much greater security than if all passports are to be issued on assembly lines in a solid passport office, such as one added to Rome today, where all passport issues are to be added to Lillestrøm. What one sees at the canal office as, among other things, on Lørenskog and in Nittedal, many travel from Oslo for passports because there are endless cows. So you won't be allowed to do that in the future. Instead, a build of both traffic and long pass cows on Lillestrøm, with a triple of the number of issues. It is extremely unwise policy, and I hope it is stopped here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1674	It was claimed that one should not do all the issues of centralisation. But this is centralization. It's Stortinget's job to fight for good services for people throughout the country. The eye-catching thing is that the cork Right or Advance Party in the setting, or the Council of State in its post, in one word, refers the situation to people in Norway. It seems that one has more concern for the bureaucrats in POD, a talker with loving concern for them, but one doesn't mention people around Norway with a single word. It's said that there are 30,000 passports for detours. Do you have any evidence that these were issued at a small lumbar carpentry office? Of course, one doesn't. Does the government's problem with passports being sent as regular mail to people's mailboxes? No, it was not named. The council said this was about object protection. Let me take a concrete situation. The Member’s office shall lose the right to issue passports. There are nearly 60,000 inhabitants in the area. They will then travel to Sandnes to get passports issued. It will make a useful contribution to the tolling, but it will generate more traffic. So the state council says there should be a higher level of security where a issuer passes. Is it the case that at the police stations in Eigersund and Sandnes there should be a higher level of security due to the provision of passports than there should be at the Jären Länsmannskontoret? It actually seemed to me that I sensed that the council replied, because that is what he actually said in his post. So it was from the Right that one should only have passports every ten years. Then I say, "Don't they talk to people?" Adults shall have passports every 10 years, but in the case of young people, some shall have passports every 2 years, some shall have passports every 3 years, some shall have passports every 5 years. With a three-and-four children, the provision of passports is not synchronised. One should have a new pass, evenly. Then you have to travel, pay for your trip, and take a break from work to do this. It is a direct transfer of costs from the country to business and to individuals. In a previous post, it was also claimed that this would have happened to whoever put it in government. I think most people are pretty sure that with the Center Party in government it wouldn't have come a long list of passport offices in the districts that one would drop. At least it would be an honest reason for you to drop some passport offices. But the argument we get today is not credible and does not concern ordinary people and their everyday lives. It's a sight-catching party that previously referred to itself as the party for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1690	I have to cut down a little bit here, because everyone has said about the same thing as I was going to say. But I'm going to focus a little bit on Finnmark, because I know the state council is well aware of it. In Finnmark, the office is continued and established in Alta, Hammerfest, Kirkenes, Porsanger, Tana and Vadsø. The offices of Båtsfjord, Karasjok, Kautokeino, Lebesby, Nordkapp and Måsøy are closed. People in Finnmark struggle to get the police in place, but ask themselves, ‘Why can’t you keep passport offices where such offices are established — this to strengthen the police offices? The problems for us who live in Finnmark are that there are huge distances and very bad weather. I will take a small example: from Båtsfjord to Tana it is about. 110 kilometers each way. Those of you who have been in Finnmark in the winter know that the Båtsfjord Mountain is often closed, and then you realize that a trip across the mountain can take a long time. Boating fjords are useful in business activities and often require a visit to the passport office. Now there is no tram or train between Båtsfjord and Tana, therefore this usually has to be done with your own car. For me, I must say, this seems to be unnecessary use of both time and money. A trip to Båtsfjord and Tana is on approx. two hours each way, and in reality one day goes by to get a passport. This is not good. People have problems understanding why not the county offices can also do such jobs in the future. So maybe it's about getting a mobile passport office. There may be something to look at, but I think it seems very scary – I kept saying – to get it done if you can't get it done at a loner's office in one of the municipalities where you're going to put it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1701	I notice that the Council of State is once again sitting in a debate here in Stortinget without drawing on the list of speakers to respond to entirely concrete challenges arising from the opposition. In the previous case, in the justice debate, a number of challenges arose through a multi-hour debate without the Council of State choosing to take the floor to respond to some of them. Now there is a new issue that affects people in Norway, about the issue of passports, where we have well-founded questions about why one has done as one has done. For Stortinget has not been presented with a case such as the Stortinget was supposed to – we have only been briefed through a proposition from the government on completely different things. When, for example: concerning defects and defects, and the 30000 passports mentioned: Is it such that a person is more likely to have defects and deficiencies in small offices than in large offices? And to what's going on in securing the canning offices: Is it such that the canning offices that will issue passports in the future will have a higher level of security, that both those who work there, and those who come to these offices, will enjoy greater security than at other canning offices? What about the officers' offices that are losing passports today — where more than 4000–5000 passports are issued? Let's take Lørenskog, in my own county and area: 7 000 to 8 000 passports are issued annually at that office, many travellers also come to from other municipalities to get passports issued. So you have to put down the passport issue, and it's not presented with a single factual argument as to why it's going to happen. And last but not least, when you talk about mobile solutions: what makes it possible for more security and safer solutions to be created by a choice of mobile solutions in areas where there are long distances, rather than bets on a loner's office, as the Stortinget has said, to be strengthened? What is it that makes these loner offices not good enough and sure enough that one can issue passports there in the future, while one should develop mobile solutions, which the Council of State has otherwise been very little clear on what really is? I really hope we can get some more answers during this debate than what has come so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1712	I'm going to make this relatively short -- I haven't really registered any new arguments since I was standing here in a line exchange. These are the arguments that I have already explained, which apply. But it might be useful to draw up a little distinction, and that's that we can clearly distinguish between yesterday's passport and the future passport. That's why it's so hard to see in the rear mirror – look back on the old days and old-fashioned structure – when we're about to make the new passports, which should be safer. In the case of the 30,000 passports that are on the way: the score of new, safer passports is not whether there are small or large offices that have written them out; the point is that with the next generation passport it should be impossible to use the 30,000 passports that are on the way. In order to do so, a completely different treatment system is needed. The securing of passport vendors is not about securing the person sitting there; it is about ensuring a processing system and the passport itself. We have had some object protection debates that some say are about concrete. Here it is not so much about concrete; here it is about ensuring a system, and about ensuring that the procedure is sound. And even though I'm now trying to insist that we look into the future, the National Auditorate has been critical of us. If one does not take that criticism seriously, I expect that there will be a new hearing in Stortinget where I have to sit and answer for securing the passport offices in the future. I think that would be irresponsible. I believe that now is the time for us to take social security seriously and put it as a premise at the bottom. These are the same arguments that have been lying there all along, there are no new arguments – at least not as I have heard come out in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1723	I did not intend to contribute to the lengthening of the debate, but I find it necessary to refer to the decision we made in June 2018. If I don't think wrong, it was, perhaps, the Christian People's Party that initiated that decision, but at least it says this: ‘The government is asked to facilitate at least 90 pst. by residents in each police district have a maximum of 45 minutes driving time to the nearest passport office, so that the service provision to the public is maintained in the best possible way. A final decision relating to the structure and number of passports where quality and volume do not meet international requirements may provide for derogations. There must be a higher number of points of issue than proposed by the Directorate of Police.’ I believe that, through the debate and through the suspension and comments of the Workers' Party and the Centre, we clearly point out that ICAO, the international requirements, do not prevent us from having a structure that would have followed up the decision we made. So I think that one way to go about the proposal that the government is now making is not to follow up the decision of the Stortinget on June 15, 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1733	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1738	I thank the Minister of Justice for finally coming up and trying to clarify his reasons. For this purpose, the procedural system and the safety of the processing system: it is not the case that each passport office has its own processing system. There must, of course, be a common procedural system that is ensured through it. The passport shall then be issued at the existing lumbar lumbar corporal office. What we're proposing is that where we have LEN's offices and police stations today, one should also have the opportunity to have passports. There are highly competent people working in these offices, and I have to say that there is a serious downgrading of the police officers who are there today. However, it is clear that there are some changes for the future, which means that one must bet on the local offices, get in the new passport boxes, get into the accommodation and bet on the employees who live there. That is what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1745	Governments called for new moments. Nordland, who only has 75 pst. by the population within the recommended 45 minutes to a passport office, I think I am in a special position to take care of the few offices that are left. In fact, it was to be investigated how, in particular, Nordland and Finnmark, new offices were to be set up in order to approach the average in Norway and to approach the recommendation of the Police Directorate. The Council of State itself mentioned that 1000 passports were a kind of limit to the time when quality could be maintained. In the Eagles, 1000 passports are issued. I wonder if the Council of State is aware of that, and if so why it is nevertheless proposed to be put down, when the situation of the population in the county and district is so much worse than in the rest of the country, and in addition, the border as the Council of State itself mentions is 1000 passports. It's not on your fingertips. This safety argument is also irrelevant. Of course, it's important that the systems are safe, but it doesn't necessarily have anything to do with the number of offices, it has to do with completely different basic security. Health South-East, which is so far the most well-known problem, has had very major safety challenges, despite the fact that it is a large system and a centralised system. So this is the substitute moment to centralize Norway. I am asking the Council of State specifically to see if there has not been any new momentum for the office in Ørnes. It makes no sense to put it down, in a state where the coverage is so poor, and the passport office is actually within the limit that the Council of State itself believes is sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1756	It's interesting to hear the debate and arguments that come here now, and it might be that a speaker to deaf ears, and that one is not in agreement. But it surprises me very much that the Right and Advance Party, which claims to be a business party, does not take height for the needs that are out there. Business depends on things happening right away. We see the large passport offices around that have been mentioned here, for example. Eelsund - they have a waiting time of up to three weeks. It's not time to wait for it, so it's unlikely that the service will be created so that people can get to it right away and fast. In fact, many of the passport offices to be closed now are being visited by neighbouring communities, neighbouring municipalities and large passport offices because one must have a fast and day-to-day passport. So I'm very surprised that the government is very busy going to lay down, and I'm worried that the officers' offices that are now left will be picked up from task by task. Things need to be seen in context, this is absolutely necessary. We need to be able to take a height so that when one picks away this pass output, the next thing is that they are missing resources in the cities, and then you move settings from the districts. Will the Minister and the Government start a new round and lay down even more Länsmannskontoret, which Stortinget has recently agreed to pass? What tasks should be in the rest of the janitor's offices? The size has been very clear on one thing, and that is to ensure a real strengthening of the officers' offices that are left after the implementation of the police reform. Then I think the minister and the government have to take it seriously and listen to the people and the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1762	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1778	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1794	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1803	As the rapporteur, I would first like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on this proposal for a representative on equality in Norwegian film and television drama production. There was an open consultation with many hearings, which provided very clear feedback on the proposals. Several of these proposals refer to the previous action plan and objectives for equality in films, with measures that were not implemented at the time. Although the women’s movement in Norway has achieved significant victories for gender equality, we are not yet a fully freed society. Men still have more systematic power and wealth — as well as opportunities — than women have. The film and television drama production industry is no exception. The figures from 2017 show that only 27 pst. by the leading role in Norwegian films was played by women. There was a drop from 30 pst. in 2016. The proportion of women in Norwegian premiere films has fallen from over 34 pst. in 2015 to under 30 pst. in 2017. In particular, male producers in 2015 had, on average, two times the production budget for feature films compared to that of female producers, almost three times larger in 2016. Although some of the measures show a weak positive trend, the speech of the figures is clear: the film industry is still man-dominated. This is not a new theme in any way either. It's a long way from that. There are many pioneers in Norwegian films who have gone ahead and who have worked on this for a long time, and there has also been a political question for a long time. Although it has been promised a fine and improvement, we are still here today. This is clearly a problem with which it is very difficult to do something. Yes, the human dominance of Norwegian films is a bit like beards, for example. – it's hard to get away. [[Laughter]] It's serious because it's about which stories are told, who gets through with their stories, and who's being held back because of unfair power structures. We lose important votes because of the lack of equality in Norwegian films. It's cheerful in the hall, but it's serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1818	It's because of beards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1823	That's why fighting for equality in film and television drama production is also fighting for an important democratic value, that gender or background should not prevent anyone from telling their story. Not least, it's important for all the young girls who watch movies and Norwegian series to see stories they recognize in, see role models. That is why I am pleased that some of the proposals in the matter seem to have a majority in the Chamber today. A new action plan for gender equality has already been announced. The majority of the population, after all the sunmarks today, decide that the new action plan will include some important points, including: better gender balance statistics have to be compiled in Norwegian films, that NFI has to count more than just producer, director, scriptwriter and lead role, for example. the cinematographic support given to women, the size of the budget for each production, the amount of aid, the gender distribution and the development of salary levels in several of the different professional groups involved in film production, the need for the NFI to be able to explain how the films supported contribute to a more diverse film portfolio, and the need for the NFI to use all available tools to increase the number of applications from women and minority groups. All of this is positive steps in the right direction, but still far from enough, SV says. Stronger instruments are needed to combat the unfair structures that prevent women from telling their stories and that make Norwegian films poorer. Therefore, SV supports all the proposals in the case – and I include them in the proposals that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1834	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Then the President would point out that ‘skøggre’ is absolutely within parliamentary terms and within Parliament, to put it that way. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1841	Equality doesn't come of itself, unlike beards, you might say. Equality must be fought for and created every day. You just do that with concrete and clear policies. In the last year, the Metoo campaign has opened people's eyes to the results of gender imbalance and gender equality in different sectors of society. Sexual harassment is just a symptom of a lack of equality. We all know that the cultural industry is particularly vulnerable. When the Workers' Party was last in government, clear objectives were set for equality in the Norwegian film industry. Actions were taken and progress was made in the right direction. It didn't go fast enough, but it went in the right direction. When the Right and Advance Party took over the government power in 2013, some of the first Minister of Culture did so at the time, to abolish the goal of gender balance in Norwegian film and television drama production. Even a measure of forty-second gender balance could not stand for the Right and the Advance Party. They had to remove that. It has consequences, because immediately it happened, so we started to move in the wrong direction. Last year's numbers show that only 27 pst. by all the leading roles in Norwegian films were played by women. It's a decrease from 30 pst. in 2016. The proportion of women in Norwegian premiere films has fallen from over 34 pst. in 2015 to under 30 pst. in 2017. Male producers had, on average, twice the budget for feature films than female producers in 2015, and almost three times the budget for 2016. Although some indicators show a positive trend for this year, the number of figures over time is clear. The dominance of men in the Norwegian film industry is still too great. The absence of equality that we see year after year stands in the way of the quality of art. We're missing something when the biases are so big. Movies and television series are perhaps the most widely used cultural offer. Stories told on films are among the stories that affect us most. They make sense, they give us new insights, they help us to understand both our history, ourselves, our time and society around us. It is absolutely vital for the community that all parts of the population feel familiar with the stories that are being told. When the majority of these stories are made by a man, having a man's perspective and a man in the lead, it affects how we look at ourselves and at each other. Equality does not come of itself; one must create it. We need political action. The Labour Party today gives the Storting the opportunity to act, because our proposals are going to work. They come from the industry itself, who knows where the shoe prints. They will provide a more diverse film portfolio where more votes are not available, and where more people can recognize themselves in the stories that are being told. We need to use all available means to release more women. I am disappointed that all parties that have supported the metoo campaign, held fine party speeches and said that equality is important, chooses not to do anything, now that they have the chance. The fact that our proposals – which will create change, which are entirely concrete, coming from the industry itself, which have been demanded and demanded and demanded year after year – are now being voted down shows that there has been no intention of doing anything with the celebrations that have been held. The film industry doesn't need any more parties. The equality doesn't need any more empty cheers. We need measures that create lasting change. It is good that the Christian People's Party joins us in the opposition and provides us with a majority to produce better statistics. It is also good that the Christian People's Party provides us with a majority to reach the goal of fifty-fifty and not forty-sec, but it is a pity that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left once again today show that they are not concerned with equality, but that those who are fighting for a change in the industry still have to do the job themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1856	Today, we are discussing several measures proposed by the Workers' Party to increase equality in Norwegian film and television drama production. Equality in society is very important for this government. Film is part of democracy's infrastructure: Norwegian film creates and confirms the cultural community, and film has an important role as a democratic arena for opinion-breaking and for social criticism. It is therefore also necessary that Norwegian films reflect the breadth and diversity of the population. Equality in film is part of this, so the work on raising the proportion of women in films is very important. That message wants the Right to stand behind. What the parties to the committee disagree on most in this matter is the instruments to be used in the cultural sector, including the film industry. The right does not want detailed regulation on individual schemes, as the proposals herein imply. In the budget debate last week, SV strongly argued how important it was for culture to be free. Right wants an arm's length distance, just for this reason. I note that the SV's principles that culture should be free have to give way to other political objectives in this matter. The right in this case has pointed out that the Storting has already adopted a policy on moderate quotas for women. The right has also clarified that the Norwegian Film Institute already has an action plan with the target of fifty-five women and men in the film industry by 2020. I have made a quick estimate for the allocation of funds to feature films in 2018, and it seems that the NFI has already achieved its 50-fifty target in the year’s allocations. The share of female scriptwriters is 46 pst, so high it hasn't been before, but within the rule, the female share is 51 pst, and the proportion of female producers is 53 pst. The figures are subject to my having the right starting point for the 2018 allocation calculation, where I see that there are 52 feature films that have been supported by the NFI. As it looks for 2018, the NFI has clearly set its target of fifty-five by 2020. But of course, this can vary from year to year, as the industry is small and some allocations can make a huge impact on statistics. An investigation that shift7 has done together with the Creative Artists Agency, which was referred to in the New York Times this week, shows that films with female leading roles in the period 2014-2017 had the best returns to the cinemas. The study also shows that films that pass the Bechdel test, which measures how women are portrayed in a film, pass over the performance of films that do not pass this test. For the right, it is important to focus on quality films with women’s main roles, but for the right, it also trusts the film policy objectives that the industry itself has chosen, without the Storting having to impose additional guidelines on the film industry. We believe it has come out well that the industry is developing, and that equality is also important for the film industry, because it provides an economically good and sustainable industry, with more interesting characters and strong stories.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1877	The representative proposal we have for treatment today clearly shows that equality obviously means different things for different parties. The proposers have a clearly mechanical and fixed view of equality. It seems that they believe that men and women clearly tell different stories, represent different values, and that it is important to count how much is expressed by each sex. It may seem that the proposers believe that the stories are either male or female. The characters are obviously either masculine or feminine. It can actually seem like it's more that separates the genders than what we have in common. With such an approach, it is important to count how many minutes the screen is filled by men and how much it is filled by women. Not enough, we're also going to analyze what roles the two sexes play. Even I grew up at a time when we looked at Lekestue, Pompel and Pilt and Titten Tei. We thought a little bit about Lekestue being led by Geir Børresen and Vibeke Seether, and they apparently represented two completely different perspectives. Little did we realize that Pompel and Pilt at best were quite androgyne, and that Titten Tei was dressed like a boy, but had the voice of a woman. We actually got past the house. For the Progress Party, it's not so interesting to count how much the individual gender is involved. For us, it is more important that the films and television productions that might receive public support are actually something that people will see. That being said, we can also look at the censuses and reports that have already been carried out. Everything suggests that the film and television industry is implementing actions that bring forward both male and female talents. The report by the Norwegian Film Institute, which came this year, says: ‘In recent years, we have seen a cautious development in the positive direction of the gender balance in Norwegian films.’ On the gender balance in Norwegian film in the NFI report in September this year, it is also pointed out that in 2017 NFI's target of 50 pst was reached. women's share achieved for artistically rated short films. At the same time, the goal of a female and human share of at least 40 pst. achieved for artistically rated feature films and drama series. The drama series that received production grants had a female share of 47,5 pst. This is a clear improvement for the singer, who has historically had the lowest female share. Short film had the highest proportion of women, with 55.6 pst. We also know that the industry is quite advanced among the creative industries. In contrast to what it was like — and still is — in a number of cultural industries, film and television environments have done a lot to improve gender balance. Maybe it's a little siding, but some of the change has probably also come as a result of the metoo campaign. This movement had its origins in the film and television industry – internationally, but it is clear that the Norwegian environment too became aware of the problems early on. It is important to stress that the industry itself needs to understand its audience. The industry must provide content that reflects the entire population. I'm sure it'll be all right. I have faith in the good stories. The best stories engage, across the gender. It will be unreasonable, impossible and impracticable to provide support based on gender. Movies and television are for the audience, and the audience decides what they want to see. I also believe that the best stories come out when we use the widest possible market of talents. That market of talents includes – naturally – the entire population. Talents exist, as we know, quite naturally as much among women as among men. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the goal of equality in film and television productions, because we believe it is the best result, but without agreeing with the telemany of the left. That is why we are in the majority opinion, as in particular. sounds: ‘The majority support the work of the NFI for full equality in the Norwegian film industry.’ Similarly, the majority point out that if you really want to make an effort to improve the gender balance in the film field, it is important to have a long-term commitment, and that you think of gender balance also in recruitment and talent development in the film industry, which the industry itself must take on that they are responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1909	In this case, there is a consensus that there is not enough equality in the film industry, and that this is neither good for equality in general, nor for the film as a cultural expression in particular – the last, perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party, if I understood Mr. Wold's comments correctly. In relation to the number of men who claim key roles in the film industry, there are not enough women who are in charge, not enough women who are script writers, not enough women who are film photographers, not enough women who work with post-work, nor enough women who work with light and sound on the film sets, and still far from enough female leading roles and producers. In addition, the latter receives much less money to travel with than their male colleagues. That's the way it is, even though you've had a lot of nice goals and ambitions in this area for years. Among other things, the Norwegian Film Institute has a target of fifty-fifty distribution between men and women in the Norwegian film industry. That objective shall be achieved by 2020. It's about time. Therefore, it is affordable for the Workers' Party to address and try to address the situation by promoting a number of proposals for action. Not all of the proposals will be voted in favour today, some because they have budgetary implications, and some because, for the time being – and I emphasise it for the time being – we seem a little too drastic already with a quota of 50 pst. women in all key positions, when we are still far from the 40 p.m. target, and after three years to split the film support flat, into two. But I have the sense of the proposals, they show action. When we talk about active equality policies, as politicians, we have to act – unlike what the government and the minister do in this matter, I think. Unfortunately, they do not support any of the proposals. Government parties seem to agree that equality in the film industry is not good enough, but they do not want any new measures on the table. They clearly believe that things are happening only by themselves in the future, that the ‘business itself’ only has to take responsibility, as they write in the attitude – I think I see it. Unfortunately, the industry is now barely tightening up in this area, after receiving the signals they are receiving from the government today, that no further action is needed. I think it is very strange that it should not be relevant for the government parties to support any of the proposals. After all, they highlight in the setting that the use of gender-based allowances, for example: in the market organisation of the Norwegian Film Institute last year, has contributed positively to gender equality, so they know that such measures are working. The hearing also expressed the support of the vast majority of the hearing bodies for the proposals of the Workers’ Party – not least from all those who demanded more from the gender equality work to the Norwegian film institute just than is currently taking place. I therefore think it is a pity that the government parties do not see the value of pushing extra on the NFI. The last few years have been marked by the Metoo campaign and the major problem of sexual harassment it has uncovered, not least in the film industry. With more equality and better gender balance of power, there's a lot of reason to think that there'll be less sexual harassment from them with power in the film industry. Now the government parties had the opportunity to contribute. It's sad that they don't choose to do it. Luckily, for the fight against sexual harassment and for gender equality, there is a majority in the opposition for several of the proposed measures, including: for the Norwegian Film Institute to work more focused and better with its action plan on gender equality in the film industry. Now it will be, among other things. better gender balance statistics, by providing statistics in far more areas than four functions. NIFs must be able to explain how films supported by them contribute to diversity and must use all available tools to increase the number of applications from women and minority groups. I think this will contribute to more equality, but if that is not enough, then I and the Central Party are not strangers to looking at further action in the future, because this is an important matter. If we're going to be even more equal in Norway, all the visual stories about ourselves, the ones we identify with, have to have the opportunity to show that we want equality. We want women's perspective to appear in every way possible. Then more women must be allowed to join in and tell those stories.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1930	Is there one thing that the discussions, the debates and the too many examples in the media and social media have shown and confirmed, is that we still have a lot to do when it comes to equality. This is precisely why action needs to be taken in the workplace, at home and in public forums. Therefore, the Left and I believe that we should always look at the tools we use to ensure that we do enough. At the same time, it is important that we neither believe nor imagine that there is a simple measure to ensure that we achieve the objectives we have set for equality. We're also going to refuse to believe that if we just inserted this one measure, everything would be fixed and in order tomorrow, next month or at the beginning of next year. The equality struggle is a tough fight. It's about attitudes and major structural changes that it turns out to be difficult to turn around overnight. This case deals with equality in a single area of Norwegian cultural life: film and television drama production. I agree with the intention of the proposers to ensure a better gender balance in the Norwegian film industry, but I disagree with the premise put on this matter, that nothing is done, because it does – despite the fact that it may seem that the opposition is still more concerned with combating beards than with what is actually being done. By means of letters of assignment, the government has shown action. The NFI shall have, inter alia: a very ambitious target of fifty-fifty per cent equality by 2020 was set, following calls for proposals. We fully support this goal. Not least, moderate sex quotas have been used, which in itself is a very strong instrument, and despite the fact that this was used as late as last year, we already see positive results. The proportion of women in projects receiving production grants increased from 13 to 37 pst. in 2017. In addition, we support the women's initiative of Talent Norway, which is helping to promote the next major female talents in the industry. If we look at Norwegian films and televisions both nationally and internationally, we have women who are at the forefront of the queue and receive prizes and recognition. Just this – which role models are there, who are visible – also means something, and it contributes to the long-term struggle to improve equality. I agree that we have to keep the pressure up, but I cannot accept that the situation is being painted black. Finally, I would like to point out that you have to be able to see the effort you are making in one field, in relation to what is being done at an overall level. For equality is not just a challenge in the film and television industry, it is a societal challenge. In cultural life, there are several industries that are not very close to showing the same results as the film industry can. That is why we need to continue our efforts for a more equal society. And we do. This government does so, among other things. by strengthening the obligation of activity and presentation and by introducing a low-threshold offer, as the Left first proposed in the Storting. In this last budget, we also support the grassroots work that the cultural industry itself has done, putting together Balance Art. That's what we get into the state budget and secure support for next year. The Norwegian labour market is still very divided. Women continue to work more part-time, earn less and sit in less decision-making positions than men. Now, when we also put behind a metoo year and have got our eyes up on how many women have been treated in the workplace, we may be even more aware that the fight is not over. That is why I am pleased that we are already doing well, and the signals we send to the industry, and the signals we send to the NFI, are quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1944	So it's equality in film and television production that we're debating today. It is quite obvious that in that industry there are still gender equality challenges that I think we should take seriously. We should also show action by using policy instruments to achieve more equality in this sector. I just want to remind you that in the previous period in this Chamber we dealt with the equality message of the previous government – i.e. the Right Party Government. It was good at describing, good at describing the challenges, but almost bare for action. It was the Stortinget that had to do something about it. And the Left, which was then not included in the family and culture committee, was involved in supporting many of the actions promoted in this room. I heard the Right Representative use the term ‘arm length distance’ and accused SV of not using that term when it comes to equality. Using the term 'arm's distance' is just an attempt to say, 'You, we'd rather reach our arms in the weather, and then we hope that those challenges in the film and television industry will pass by themselves'. For the Christian People's Party, it has been quite natural when it comes to equality, to be willing to use political measures to achieve more equality – in all areas of society. Therefore, it is quite natural for the Christian People's Party to support the need to produce better statistics on gender balance in Norwegian films. It is quite natural for the Christian People's Party to support the fact that the NFI must be able to explain how the films supported contribute to a more diverse film portfolio. It is quite natural for the Christian People's Party to support the use of all available instruments by the NFI to increase the number of applications from women and minority groups. And of course, it's quite natural for the Christian People's Party to support a proposal that requires setting a target of fifty-fifty women and men in key positions in front and behind the camera. I think it's important, as in other areas, that we are willing to use the means we have available to tackle the challenges we have in terms of gender equality. I must also say at the end that as a member of the User Council, it is quite natural for the Christian People's Party to support any fight against beards in all Norwegian homes and in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1963	Let me first say that the government believes that equality is important in absolutely all cultural fields, and in the new cultural message, where it is said that all cultural and art policies are based on freedom of expression and the social building force of opinions, we are talking about democracy, participation and diversity on which the important values on which we are based. However, the Culture Communication also states that culture should be relevant and representative. And if it's going to be relevant and representative, it also has to reflect that everyone is going to see the reflection of their seas in the cultural life that is evolving. It's a good time until we've reached full equality between the sexes both in society and perhaps especially in cultural life, but we see that more and more female filmmakers are dropping to both front and back camera. I have had the opportunity to travel around many film festivals this year, and then I see who is really involved in putting Norway on the map as a movie. There are many of the female filmmakers who have now really been involved in raising the Norwegian film industry. The film is a strong cultural expression, but we've also had good numbers in the film sector. The film sector has been subject to much more debate than many other sectors. Because the film is such a powerful tool, it is important that women tell stories, and that half of the stories to be described in the film world should be women's history. We also see that we have developed Norwegian film policy in a way that makes us stretch out quality, and we have a production of high-quality films that makes us really have had an amazing cinema year in Norway this year. The last Norwegian premiere was the film «Sonja», with a female lead and with most ladies on the stage to thank the participants. But I also think it is important to stress that we should have an arm's length distance in cultural policy, and our art should be free. I think this is a topic that all culture ministers before me have also been concerned about. Since the 2000s, gender balance has been on the agenda for cultural policy and film policy in particular. The red-green ones, who made their film release in 2007, said that it was an explicit goal that you should have 40 pst. women in key positions both in front and behind the camera. In 2015, the government presented its film release to Solberg. Here, gender balance was not an explicit film policy objective. I thought that was an unfortunate signal, and during the treatment in Stortinget, the Left agreed to place in the film policy objectives that we should have a share of women and men in key positions of at least 40 pst. The Ministry of Culture has, after having had clear expectations of the Norwegian Film Institute, that they should work for gender balance, and this has been done in the letters of assignment. Now the NFI practices moderate sex quotaing in several schemes. We also consider different other measures. A film industry film recording seminar has been held and an action plan for gender balance for 2016, which we will be updating in a short time. But it's important to remember that there are many films that are also produced without the support of the NFI. In August, I arranged a wide-ranging meeting with selected actors from the entire film industry to talk about equality in film. There I got a lot of good ideas and useful thoughts from the different perspectives around the table. We will continue to work with them and implement them in the further work on the part of the department. When the Norwegian Film Institute carries out moderate sex quotas in market organizations, this is a good example of what we think works well. I just want to end up with some numbers and facts: in 2017, the NFI's target was 50 pst. the proportion of women. Of the development grants, the women's share is 43.2 pst, above the 40 pst. As the Stortinget set as a goal, on drama series, it's 47,5 pst. – it’s not that easy to get closer to 50 pst. – and in the case of short film, the proportion of women is 55,6 pst. This is going in the right direction. I think the committee might have had an even greater commitment to other parts of the culture when it turns out that 96 pst. of all the pieces of symphony orchestras are composed by men and that the ten most highly traded artists in Norway are men. We should also discuss that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1984	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1989	That the symphony orchestras are in poor condition, there is no reason not to do anything in the film industry. I have experienced that in its former opposition role here in Stortinget, the Council of State has joined forces with the Left and the Labour Party and forced the Right Government to impose an equality policy that they would not have. We did so – as the representative Bekkevold said – in the context of the gender equality communication in 2015. We also did so in connection with the film release in 2015, when we were reintroduced – against the will of the Right and the Advance Party – the goal of gender balance in Norwegian film. It's nice to have the new Sonja Henie film and that this year we have a good year for women in Norwegian movies, but we don't want it to be an exceptional year. We want it to be like this in the future. Our proposals for action go back to 2010. It's the Industry Council for Film and Film itself that's asked for them, because they know they're working. They're not radical, they're just fair. Why can't the Council of States support one of those measures, which might make this a permanent change?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e1996	I have not thought that this should be an exceptional year. I'm going to be the Council of State for a long time, and then we have the opportunity to get these numbers to really crawl up. What we're seeing now is that the tools we've been using, both what NFI's done, the awareness that's happened throughout the debate, from the first video message from the red-green to what we're now seeing, that we're able to build up talents, are important to really change this over time. We also have Talent Norway, where cooperation with the NFI leads to the fact that we can now pursue the female talents that are really starting to do well. I think that's what's going to affect the statistics of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2003	In the last Minister's reply now, there was talk of what can help in this situation in the future. In her letter to the Ministerial Committee on this matter, she points to something else, namely that if we are really going to make an effort to improve the gender balance in the film field, it is very important that we think of recruitment and talent development. I hope, of course, that we can do something more than think, and wonder if the Minister has concrete measures to ensure equality in the film industry through recruitment and talent development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2008	So let's do that with e.g. the programme launched by Talent Norway, where they join the NFI, finds female talents, cultivates them and follows them up as filmmakers. That way, we'll be able to give backing to the talents that we see can be the great filmmakers in the future. We see opportunities to give them both training and support to develop their film ideas. That's what we're seeing now, that you get some female filmmakers who really pursue their idea, who are able to be quite innovative in film, and who clean up festivals around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2013	I thank you for your answer. So there's a lot of people that's making a difference. They started a place – in their room or in a school. In the field of recruitment: What has the Minister thought about how we're going to get more girls to search and learn the film subject through the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2018	I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this when we come up with our own children's and youth culture message. What we see is that a lot of the film expression among children and young people is that of boys who have a monopoly on, maybe even more in games and programming. All the projects that are about getting more girls into what has been considered a very technical art expression – which is about games and movies – I think will be important in the future. Here, too, programming is quite close. In this whole area of business, we need to make sure that all the girls who want to do it – and perhaps a little more than those who think they want it – will have the opportunity to develop and try it out. That's how I think we'll be able to create the undergrowth that in the future you can pick the great talents from.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2025	In the Norwegian gender equality struggle, quotaing has been an important tool, contributing to our being one of the world’s most equalised countries. I know that some people on the right side of Norwegian policy fall off the chair when someone uses that word, but it's important anyway. For research, men are quoting men informally. Therefore, quotaing is a good tool for breaking up the unfair structures that prevent equal participation. Does the Council support the increased use of quotas as an instrument, regardless of what the government parties vote for today, for increased equality in Norwegian films, so that all votes are added, and so that the film can become richer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2033	In addition to being Minister of Culture, I am the party leader of the first party that introduced quotaing into its legislation. I think it should also be an instrument in many areas, sail if we should always be careful to do it in areas where we're going to have an arm's length distance. In this area, we see that the NFI practices moderate quotas. We know that the NFI has a measure of 50 pst. It is an objective supported by all the parties in this Chamber, at least the members of the Committee. We see that we get to prioritize ladies when you have those goals clear. And we're now looking at the numbers that we get from the NFI, that the gender balance in the film sector has improved dramatically in many areas, and that we've now really managed to achieve the goals that we set ourselves. My concern as Minister of Culture is that there are many other fields of culture that are much, much worse, and where it is also more difficult to find ways to reach these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2042	We'll probably invite the government councils and parties to do something about the rest of the culture industry, too, and I look forward to that cooperation. In reply to my previous reply, the Council of State said that she had not at all thought that this good women's film year would be an exceptional year, because she had intended to be the Council of State for a long time. Nevertheless, the Council of State will not implement a single structural measure that can ensure that the future will also be the year of women in Norwegian films. I believe this is the classic difference between the right side and the left side of Norwegian policy, where we see on the left side that we need to build a structure for equality and create lasting change through politics, while the right side – and now unfortunately also the Left Council – thinks that this can scour and walk by itself, and that it really keeps to be the Council of State and just say that equality is important. Why will the Council of State not support one of the many concrete sectoral measures we are proposing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2051	It's tempting to say that it's a little bit of a classic criticism, because the left-hand side now comes here and suggests things that we're already doing. It's a 50-pst requirement in the NFI, we're implementing a talent development to lift the girls, and yes, we're going to have a separate action plan in this area – we're taking a lot of action within this. It's actually also that female directors get better dice throws than male directors. But there's still more going on the male-directed movies than going on the female-directed movies. We need to do something about all the measures we have, and then we might also have to do something about the attitude of each one -- when we see that the ladies produce the best movies, while it's still the men who have the good numbers for whom it's going and watching.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2058	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2065	Let me continue where I left off in the line change. This has become a very common, predictable equality debate, in which we are impatient on the left, want to create lasting change and promote proposals for measures that can help achieve it, while the right side believes that it is going too far and too radical. Of course, they are very much for equality, but not exactly these measures. I would like to hear what the representatives of the government parties want to do to create greater equality in Norwegian film and television drama production. Have you not found that this was one of the main slogans of this year's March 8th train? Was not the massive support given to these proposals received at the hearing in the Committee? Has not the public debate that has been going on for several years, where the industry itself is asking for action because it is so sexual? It is a good year this year, but we will have to be lasting, and then action is needed. It is not that the measures we are proposing today are already being taken. Of course, everyone has come to realize that the NFI has set fifty-five as a goal. The problem is that it doesn't work well enough and concrete enough to achieve that goal. That is why we have a number of measures that could just achieve the fifty-fifty target. Many of those measures go back to 2010, from the Swedish Film Industry Council. They're not radical. Nor is it radical to set a goal of fifty-fifty, it's simply fair. Quotation is not radical either, it's fair, and it's the best skill against gender imbalance we know works today. It is important for gender equality to take place in the long term, and it must take time, more representatives of the right have said here today. Yeah, that's typically the right-hand side. Had it been so that the right side had guided Norway through history, we wouldn't have been where we are today. For every gender policy measure that has led to a change in Norwegian society, it has been seen as radical and has gone too far. We've had to pull the right side behind us and resist into the future. They have gradually accepted that the gender equality measures that have made Norway an equal country and that have worked have been OK. That's what it's going to be in the film field too. I regret that our proposals do not have a majority today. But the Workers' Party's message to the film industry is that we're not going to give up. When we get back to power one day, we're going to do this, and we're going to stick with them to create lasting change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2076	I think we can all put 2018 behind us as a great cultural year for women, especially in feature films. In fact, the proportion of women was fifty-fifty in the allocation within feature films, without the Workers' Party having adopted any quota. The applications had to compete on quality, in line with all the other applications that came in, and the women made equally strong, they had just as good projects and got the same amount of money to be able to produce their films. That's what I think is a saying -- that women who produce films in Norway are actually as good and perhaps better than their male colleagues. Right wants to contribute to a more equal film industry, we just don't want to do it just through the tools that the Workers' Party has put on the table, because we think women are as good as men. Nevertheless, the NFI has said that they want to work for a fifty-fifty distribution within the film budget. When we meet with the NFI, we get to know how they want to do it, and then they go into the individual projects and show how to raise them to quality, how to market them, what kind of audience you want to direct them to, etc. This also helps to raise the quality. That's what I think is an important work, and we're putting that behind us. The Christian People's Party believed that the Right had an too long arm's distance when it came to culture and film, and it was okay for him to take it up here. That's true, but it's also because we see that equality within films is going so well, and then we want the tools put on the table to work. We also have confidence in both the Norwegian Film Institute and the strong commitment of the Council of State. And then I just have to say in the end, I think it's harder to get rid of her commitment than the beards of the Vulcan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2085	I would like to add some considerations to the debate so far. Is there one thing that strikes me, is that there's a pretty big excuse internally between the government parties in how to look at gender equality measures in Norwegian film. So we've heard from the government party Progress Party that these equality measures represent a mechanical view of equality. We hear from the Right Representative that it's breaking with the arm's length distance principle, while the answer from the Left's representatives, on the other hand, is that these are the things they're already doing. If two out of three government parties believe that this is a terrible policy, they have a big problem inside the government – but that's just a consideration. Another consideration is about the freedom and independence of art and culture. I think it's a weak view of freedom to accept that unfair structures prevent women from telling their stories on the canvas. It weakens the freedom of art. It weakens the quality of art. It makes the art poorer. This is a classic example of the inequality between the left and right sides of Norwegian policy, and on the left, the willingness to implement an active policy in all areas of society with measures that address the unfair structures. For equality, not only are we going to be the same for the law formally on a paper – no, it has to work in practice as well, and there are not yet targets in many areas of society, nor in the field of film. Then I have to address some of the list entries from the government parties. You are from this pulpit today, for example. Very happy about Talent Norway's women's bet. Interestingly, Talent Norway’s budgets have been drastically cut in this state budget. I hope those posts mean that the important contribution of Talent Norway will be protected, and not that this programme will be weakened by the bourgeois cut policy. I would also like to address how the Progress Party debats the problem. There are many nice stories from the representative Wold about his childhood, I must say, but there are really many tough ladies in these debates right now who are trying to get to a more equal movie industry, and they deserve to be taken seriously, not to be ridiculed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2098	It's rare I let myself provoke by beards, but here was my limit. I think it's time we remembered the history of our country, of the great world. In fact, there are many who have stood together and joined forces in the fight for equality, both men and women and in all ages. I'm going to believe that the representatives in this room have every reason to remember their childhood history, and also what we've learned later. In fact, there are women and men who have communicated these stories to us. I think it's time to remember it, when you stand on this platform and until those degrees go down on the Progress Party and the right side and you're going to list up a story about who's for equality and not, not least in such a debate. I would like to remind you that some parties in this room were looking at those degrees that failed, among other things. minority girls in the fight they have waged in relation to coercion, circumcision and, not least, honour-related violence. Where were they? They stuck their heads in the sand, and it took many years before they dared to go into the debate again. I think it is simply shameful when we have a debate like the one we have today – it is quite fine that it is about equality – that parties that looked at those degrees should go in themselves as to where they have been when it really comes to equality struggles that are crucial to minorities and girls in this country, should strike their breasts and tell them how much better they are than everyone else. Actually, I don't like that. Last Monday we stood in this hall and just discussed what it's like to intervene in culture. I got shut by SV – that's not how they operated. One week took it, exactly one week took it before they again stand on this pulpit and show that they are too state interference in cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2109	The President would like to remind you that the issue relates to equality in Norwegian film and television production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2114	I saw myself forced to come up here again mainly because there are some claims from the opposition that I think it is surprising that you can interpret this from the debate that has been going on. What I mentioned in my post was that sometimes it seems that the opposition doesn't quite follow what is actually being done in the area, when they repeatedly stand on the pulpit and say that the government doesn't do anything. It surprises me a little, at least when you say you're busy in the film industry, and then apparently completely forgot the measures that are actually being implemented, the measures that are actually being taken. Then it was asked which measures this was actually. I don't have to show back any further than to my own post where I rammed up some of the things we're doing. But I'd like to repeat something, so that the opposition might be left with something after this round. We talked about allocation letters. The government's letters of award make clear demands both in response to what has happened in the round of metoo, and also in order to improve equality. We have gone to the hearing on the obligation of activity and presentation, which left has been clear that we support. We have supported the 2019 budget for Balance Art, which is a very good grassroots measure to improve much of what is happening internally in the industry. We support a low-threshold offer against sexual harassment, But when we talk about the big structural changes, and I'm standing on the pulpit and saying that we also have to see that it takes time to change something, it doesn't mean that I look back and think that things can happen by themselves. What that means is that the measures we have put in place, and the actions of the NFI, the requirements and the objectives they set, must also be allowed to work. Only in the one year that, among other things, Moderate allowances have worked, we see that results are beginning to come. That's the things we need to review over time. What really takes time is to bring forward a new generation of motivated, committed and good examples of good talents. There, too, we are on, both through talent bets and, among other things, through talent bets. the communication of childhood and youth culture to which the Minister for Culture refers. I have to say that I am reacting a little to the rather selective reading of this debate, which is obviously the opposition. That's what might be called the classic of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2129	Some have come to stay in Norway permanently — beards, for example. We can't do anything about that. Equal opportunities also appear to be those who believe that Norway has come to be. That's not right. It is equality in a country only when it is living in a political framework that promotes equality. This right-wing liberalist government formulates equality policy according to a script as if gender equality requirements are some kind of coercive street. The majority in the United Kingdom will do so differently, which is why many practical and good gender equality initiatives have been implemented in several areas. It doesn't hold that we have a minister from the Left who says she will be a minister for a long time. Now it's probably not quite up to her to decide how long she should sit in the Ministerial chair, but what's the matter, is that we should have an equality policy that will live over a ministerial change. That's why there's a need for more than talk. The industry and the opposition think that's not enough. We want structures in place that survive a minister perhaps switching pastures, giving a safer signal to the industry and to the world. So it's a little weird to listen to the debate here. If it's like this government is so very much on the equality track, why is this resistance to getting it down on a paper? That's weird. Everything is going so well, but to write it into a code we're not going to have any of it. It's about equality – getting structures in place. The councils were inside their posts – and I don't think it was either intention or purpose, but it could seem that artistic freedom and equality were two opposite concepts. It's not like that. Equality has been a struggle for freedom, even within art, from day one. Finally, I should like to make a few comments to Mr Hemdal's emotional statements here from this chair. It's like when you don't have arguments in a case, it's a good rhetorical trick to find another case to talk about and then put on some feelings, and I'm sure you'll be okay. But it is not related when a government delivers an action plan against violence that is not followed up with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2143	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2148	There are a few things I want to comment on. Firstly, it is strange to sit in the hall and be accused of not taking the fight against violence seriously. SV people around the country have, for example, set up the crisis centre offer we have today. But that's another thing the president said, and that's why I'm going to go on to what we're actually discussing. This with the freedom of art and culture has become an interesting discussion this past week – even today. Then I have to ask whether the goal of a fifty-fifty distribution is to break the freedom of art, whether a binding action plan is to break the freedom of art, whether better statistics are to break the freedom of art, to distribute resources more fairly is to break the freedom of art, or to show how to contribute to diversity is to break the freedom of art. If any of this is breaking with the freedom of art, then the government is already breaking with the freedom of art, for these are measures that are not so different from those of the government, but that we want to reinforce. So I would recommend the representative Hemdal to take a settlement with his own government first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2157	Norway has become a good film country, but it has not always been deleted. In the 1990s, the individual years in which Norwegian film film production was down to less than 10 pst. We saw American movies, we saw British movies, but we didn't see Norwegian movies. There was a clue that the definition of paranoia was to sit on the first row of a Norwegian film and think that someone was behind you. It was the relationship between Norwegian film and the audience. When we presented the message "Veivisten" in 2007, we put some hairy ambitions for Norwegian film. We said 25 pst. Of the tickets in Norwegian cinemas would be for Norwegian films, we said we would make a variety of films across the country, we said we would win international prizes, and we said we would have equal gender distribution. There was a little gisp through cultural life, because no one had set such goals for the film sector. The title "Veivieren" told me that if you want to reach a place, you have to know where to go. That is what this debate is about: should we have some clear ambitions and then be willing to implement what is going on? There is no doubt that the goal of getting a variety of stories, that both women and men tell their things on canvas, write film scripts, direct movies, play the leading roles and produce movies, share, but the question is whether the will to implement it is shared equally actively. Here's some basic distinctions. It seems that not everyone understands what is the distinction between artistic freedom and cultural policy. Artistic freedom is making the film. Cultural policy is about giving money to the film, facilitating film education, facilitating film studios, film arenas, facilitating local film centres and local film funds. It's cultural policy, and that's where we largely control the means so that we get the cultural policy objectives to come true. It was interesting to hear Silje Hemdal talk about the minority women, because it's a story that's important to tell. A filmmaker that I've been following for very many years is Iram Haq. She made a movie two years ago called "What Will People Say". For many years she strove to live off the film and could not really do that, but thanks to a good film policy, thanks to cultural support she made an important film about an important story. In a year, she won Amanda for film, film, and cinema. It almost never happens. It's a result of politics, it tells an important story, and it tells the Progress Party that cultural policy also benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2168	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2173	Let me just get the last word. This debate clearly shows, as I said in my previous article, that there is a classic debate on equality. The debate shows that it is not really the case that the goal of fifty-fifty and the ambition of an equal film industry are shared by all the parties. There is a distinction between those who are willing to implement measures and those who do not want to do so. I wonder if it's the right side that hasn't got what's going on in the Norwegian film industry, which hasn't got the 8th of March slogans, the hearing or the public debate that's been going on for years. Because it is not the case that the proposals we are making today are already being made. There are proposals that have been worked out, which the industry itself wants to have, that can be implemented, and that will ensure that the NFI and we reach the target of fifty-five. But that doesn't want to happen to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. It doesn't help that we have a good women's movie year this year, when they don't want to be with us to make sure that the next few years are also going to be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2180	The last word is the Grunde Almeland that gets. The representative of Reason Almeland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2187	In conclusion, I have to say something to some of the previous posts, because, as the representative Henriksen says, not everything is going well. No, it doesn't, and that's exactly why we're taking concrete action. I understand that the opposition and the Workers' Party have a very need for us to vote in favour of exactly their actions and precisely the measures they are promoting in this matter. That does not mean that we do not take other measures, because we do, and I have also said that clearly in this debate earlier. It is also about some of the frameworks and appropriations given to the NFI, and this government has increased the allocation in the 2019 budget, ensuring that there is more room for action to give priority to different voices in the film industry. There were questions about whether the position is grouped together in this case, and we do. It's just to read the comment in the case – everyone supports the just fifty-fifty target. That was also said by the representative here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2196	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2212	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows of replies be given to post from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2223	Thank you to the proposers for making another proposal on archives. I would also like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the matter, which has not been the largest, but nevertheless we have had good cooperation. Our archives carry out an important task in our society, and I have this whole committee with me in mind. They are not only our common memory of our past and present, but an essential part of being able to live in a well-functioning democracy. I myself took the initiative in an interpellation debate on 16 October this year, where issues such as transparency, routines and greater equality in state archival practices were the subject. It was initiated by, among others, a very critical report from the Riksrevision. The Minister for Local Affairs and Modernisation pointed out that the Archives Act does not apply to private and inter-municipal cooperation structures, and that is quite serious. I expect this to be a matter that the Riksrevision has noticed, and I can promise that the Workers' Party at Stortinget will at least follow up on this. I also expect the Swedish Archives Association to have noticed the interpellation debate and to be a watchman in this area, because they were particularly concerned about it. In a democratic light, too, it is a concern that many archives are not covered by the Archive Act. Archives and good archive practices are a cornerstone of the population of a democracy. Having good evidence of whether the administration respects the rights and obligations of individual services is necessary – for individuals and for democracy. Has an e.g. incorrect measures taken in the field of child protection or in the home are essential for the confidence of the State that the necessary information is available in the archives, so that each of them is assured that they receive the services that policy-makers have decided to have. I will say something briefly about the Workers' Party's position on the proposal and the matter from the Centre Party. The Labour Party believes that the most important work now is to develop good archival practices, and that the findings of the Riksrevision are quickly followed up by the Ministry. In addition, we want to await the report and experience of the Archives Committee with Pilot Agder from Kristiansand, which so far shows good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2234	The archives have a great many important tasks in our society. The archives are our collective memory. They house our modern cultural heritage and lay the basis for future history. They should be as accurate as possible and the archives should be managed today by archivists who have an irreplaceable competence to do so. The social role of the Archives is to contribute to efficient documentation management and to ensure, maintain and make available a wide and comprehensive range of society archives. In the context of the social mission and the objectives of the activities, the Swedish Archives have powers to dispose of government budgetary resources and to establish and amend posts. We would like to point out that the framework and powers of the Swedish Archives Agency are laid down in the Ministry's instructions, such as the financial and business management of the Swedish Archives Agency and the annual letters of allocation from the Ministry of the Swedish Archives. In the instructions, the Riksarchiver is charged with liability and is given powers. I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Culture's assessment is that the Swedish Archives performs the mandates within the limits given, and that the Council of State states that she has confidence in the Riksarchiver's practice of the powers, including with regard to the matter of roles, functions and budgetary responsibilities of intermediaries in the department. For the right, it is important to identify the need for modernisation in the archive sector. Therefore, we would like to await a further conclusion to the Committee of the Archives Act has been presented with its work on 1 March, where we will also look at whether the Swedish Archives Agency has an appropriate organisation and responsibilities to deal with today's and tomorrow's needs. I think it's amazing that the Senterpartiet in its alternative state budget added a cut to the Arkivverket of 33.9 million. kr. So when they say that they want to strengthen the first line in the archives, they're just going to cut. Archive is an important area for me. That is why I am pleased that this month the Swedish Archives Agency launched its digital platform, and that the State through the Swedish Archives Agency is contributing so much to creating a new, common digital platform for archives in Norway. I think it is right, important and forward-looking, and I believe that the parties' policies in this area should also be. Furthermore, I take the invitation from Kari Henriksen about the interpellation we had earlier in the fall, which included: The National Audit Office's report came up. Archives will be an important area for the Committee to continue working on in the future, and it will also be on the right, but we will not support this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2253	The Archives has an important role in society. The aim of the Archive Act is to ensure that archives with significant cultural or research value or containing legal or important administrative evidence are kept and made available for posterity. The centre party has been sceptical about the reorganisation process in the Swedish Archives Agency ever since its launch. Our main concern has been that the reorganisation will lead to a reduction of historical competence in the state archives, that the state archives will be weakened so that they can no longer carry out the Archiving Agency's responsibility to preserve, make available and disseminate archives delivered to or deposited with them. I'd like to refer to the consultation performance of the Norwegian Historical Association, HIFO. They write the following: ‘Each State Archives must be ensured with predictable recruitment in order to continue the necessary competence. If this is not ensured, knowledge of the contents of the archives itself will disappear, and we may risk that no one, or very few, will have the competence to understand and interpret archive material that exists at individual archive institutions. Competences in older history, older writing and knowledge of the archives located on the individual state archives are necessary. If this is not ensured at this stage, it is doubtful whether it will be possible to replace this competence at a later stage.» I also refer to the research association's input to the committee, which supports the proposal of the Central Party. The research community believes that the description of the present situation of the state archives is correct. They also underline the importance of ‘not raging or impoverishing the professional environment by reorganising and, where appropriate, transferring tasks to other levels and institutions’. The Centre Party agrees with both the Swedish Research Association and the Norwegian Historical Association that the knowledge and competence of the State Archives must be safeguarded. The Storting has received assurances from former Minister of Culture Hofstad Helleland that the state archives will have their own state archives and that they will continue to be the leaders of each state archive. However, it turns out that the reorganisation has actually deprived regional state archives of authority and local management, despite these insurances. The reorganization of the Archives is not an internal matter, so I disagree with today's Minister of Culture when she writes in her reply to the Committee that entering into the reorganisation process will be as «to test the establishment». It's not about over-testing the department, it's about ensuring good archival policy. A year ago, the Left Party supported the proposal to ensure the real strengthening of the state archives with state archives as local, geographical leader and ensuring the regional competences and public services of the state archives. Unfortunately, it may look as if the Left has turned the cloak after the wind now that they have entered the government. I'm taking up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2277	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2282	The archives are our common memory. Good practices in the archives are crucial for our democracy – the fact that public decisions and the use of power by governments are documented and archived so that they can be verified and investigated in retrospect. We've talked about a lot of examples in the media about how important it is. Now we're in a pretty basic digitization of our archives and the way we archive. This is quite natural, for much digital processing is now taking place. It has proved to be a major challenge, but it is important for the future, and really the present, because the present is already digital. The work on digitisation must have a realistic progress plan and it cannot be delayed. There is a need to put in place proper structures and, above all, good, strong skills. This applies to decisions that are now taken around the municipalities of the country, and we must ensure that this follows a good practice. We are also in the middle of a big process of municipal and county mergers. It takes a lot of time and resources around municipalities and counties. In addition, the Committee of Archives is also in the middle of an investigation process in this particular field. Therefore, SV will refer to the comments we have in the setting. There's a lot going on right now. Conversion is necessary, and we in SV will at least say clearly here – for all those who also follow these processes – that we also follow them closely and want to ensure that there is financial resources to get work done in a good way, and that digitisation can move forward so that you get the right skills and structures that are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2295	I want to start by joining all those who have pointed out how important the archives are to both democracy and our history and as our common memory. I just want to go through the suggestions that lie ahead of us. The first two proposals concern issues relating to the management of the Swedish Archives Agency by the Stortinget and the Ministry of Culture. My starting point is that the Ministry is to manage cultural activities at an overall level. To achieve that, the governance must be based on trust. There are many here in the Chamber who have talked about trust reforms. This is a reform of trust. Sometimes there may be a need to direct activities more in detail, but this is not the case with regard to the internal organisation and internal delegation of powers of the Archives. The third proposal will be binding on the Ministry's follow-up to the Audit Board's investigation. The Archives has an important and comprehensive societal mission. The Archives shall contribute to the efficient management of documentation, ensuring and maintaining the availability of a broad and comprehensive range of society archives. As the top archival authority, the Swedish Archives Agency is responsible for professional standards, guidelines, supervision and guidance on public archive work. The Archives Agency shall implement overall national policies in the archive field and contribute to the development and management of the archive sector. As a conservation institution, the Swedish Archives Agency is responsible for long-term storage, making available and disseminating state archives and prioritised private archives. The Director of the Swedish Archives Agency is responsible for the efficient operation of the activities in accordance with the societal mission. To address challenges such as: the digital archives create, it was necessary to initiate a transition to work processes, competences and internal organisation. That transition started in 2015 and will continue until 2020. Therefore, an evaluation of the migration should not be carried out until after 2020. The majority of the Committee has shown that in my letter to the Committee I inform you that I intend to ask the Swedish Archives to carry out an evaluation between 2021 and 2022. I am pleased that the majority of the committee does not support the proposal to ask the government to evaluate it before the reform is implemented. The Director of the Swedish Archives Agency has overall responsibility for the management of the activities and is authorised to discharge this responsibility. The Director has delegated, in whole or in part, powers within the Archives. The proposal of the representative to ask the government to ensure the role of the public archivist as the head of the public archives responsible for the budget, staff and quality will be a review of the Director’s exercise of the powers. I therefore note with satisfaction that the majority of the committee believes that such a review will mean that more power is added to the ministry, and I am committed to spreading power in the cultural field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2314	The Left supported the Centre Party when last year we promoted a proposal to ensure real strengthening of state archives with state archives as both local and geographical leaders, and to strengthen the regional competences and public services of state archives. I hear there's a lot of talk now about giving trust, but why was this important to the Minister of Culture before, and not now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2319	I believe that as a politician you sometimes get insight you didn't have in other roles. Now I have the role of Minister of Culture. It's done that I've gone into this in a completely different way. I've looked at the challenges our archives face when it comes to digitisation. I think it might be one of the really big historical shifts, at least in this field. Then you need skills to do that, and we need room and trust of the employees in order for them to be able to do that kind of conversion. Of course, one can dream back that the competence for the future is also going to be in Gothic writing, and we have to have it, but we also have to make sure that we get up-to-date records of our competence, so that they can take care of the digital. I can only hope that it will flow to the Center Party the same competence that I have become part of through a new role, where I have seen how important these conversions actually are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2325	Thanks for the answer. I want to hear if the minister can confirm that it is no longer important for her with local management, that you have it around? Has she completely changed her mind about that? Is it really now a matter of centralizing as much as possible because it is the easiest thing for digitization?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2330	The suggestion that lies here is to turn it all upside down. It's moving even more power into the department. It is to ensure that I withdraw powers that my employees have. I trust the leaders of my institutions. That's why they have those positions. That trust, I believe, is to be respected for a leader of an institution to have. The last time I was in the debate in the Chamber, the Central Party spoke about the importance of a trust reform in the public sector, having faith in those who are employed, having faith in the fact that they can also carry out large and tough conversion processes. It is clear that the Archives is going through a large and tough conversion process. That's not sure everything's going to be right. Then we'll correct it when that process is over. But in the process, we must have confidence in the employees, not gather more power into the ministry and ensure that the Council of State sits and instructs where responsibility should lie in a large institution like this. I believe we should have confidence that the leaders of our institutions can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2335	If you think politically it's tricked around with local leadership to maintain competence, but get new information that draws you away from the political stance, and gets the most concerned about blaming trust and saying it gets so complicated when employees have to deal with it, do you forget the principles about what's good about local management?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2340	No, trust is not a forgotten principle. Trust is something to govern even within the public domain. I believe that by bringing together even more powers at the Council of State you centralize power. You don't delegate power if you make sure that even more decisions are made in the ministry and not in the institutions, as we like. That's right – it's possible the Centre Party has as its main purpose to maintain competence at all times, too. The challenge for the Swedish Archives Agency is that they need to have new skills. They must have new ways of working. They need to have new experiences, and that's the tough transition they're in right now. There's a tough transition, and then they need "backing" to stand in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2347	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2355	The Archives has an important societal mission to secure the collective memory of society, and in the context of the archival announcement, the Stortinget stated that state archives should be kept up, that they play a central role in establishing the new integrated solutions, and that they should be strengthened with new national tasks. So we propose that the Swedish Archives Agency undertake a reorganisation in 2016, and now we propose that an evaluation of this reorganisation be carried out by 1 July 2019, because we believe that this is absolutely necessary. The majority believe that an evaluation cannot be made until 2021 or 2022. But then the whole point is gone, because then the reorganization is well done, and there is no possibility of adjusting the rate. It is very special to listen to the Council of States when it indicates that we need to have confidence, and that we do not have to try out what they consider in the services. The council itself asked questions to the then-coming Minister of Culture on 18 April 2017, if the government were not to present the reorganization of the Swedish Archives Agency for Stortinget. Why wasn't there an over-control of the department then, while it's over-control now? It's not related. In that case, the left wing has a lot in this case, and I think it's incomprehensible. We have received good reports from the Swedish Research Association, where they indicate that there was a protocol between the Swedish National Archives and service staff organisations that they were promised such an evaluation of the organisational structure. What happens in the services has encountered great resistance – not only from the Center Party, but actually from those who work in the public archives. There has been great frustration in the services. We have our three suggestions that we think it would have been quite in place that the Storting ended up today. We ask the government to ‘ensure the role and function of state archivists as heads of state archives responsible for budgetary, staff and professional quality’. It is quite in line with the fact that the Greatness has made us clear in the past, for example. in connection with the archive message. It is also the last proposal to ‘ensure the state responsibility for the archive field with the state archives as the main regional actors in cooperation with other public and private archives’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2366	It is important that all archives become correct and also the referrals of the committee setting. At the top of page 2 of the setting, the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party claim that the Minister of Culture has an opinion on dilemmas in inter-communal cooperation in an inter-pelling debate in Stortinget on 16 October this year. The correct thing is that that opinion fell from the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2371	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2387	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that, within the allocated speaking time, three lines of reply are given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2398	First, thank you for the cooperation in this and similar matters in the Committee. We have had several issues about the organisation of child protection services. Socialist People's Party and the Workers' Party have made several proposals to terminate private service providers of child protection services. I believe that SV here is promoting proposals that are not consistent and that may have unintended and not least negative consequences for the ability of child protection to provide adapted offers to children who need it. The Committee as a whole is concerned that children who are victims of violence and abuse should meet a service offer of safety, professionalism and stability. The quality of the child protection service shall be the same independently of the provider. The quality requirement of the Child Protection Service is enshrined in the Child Protection Act and regulated by the Regulation. For the purposes of this proposal, the SV shall use ‘human beings, not markets’, as ‘human beings to be put on the market’. SV also claims that the use of private suppliers is to place people on the market. I would like to stress that it is the service that is offered, not the people, not the children. That's a cheap point, that's the welfare of the children we're talking about. The most important thing is that the children get help in a timely manner. Today, private actors account for more than half of the institutional provision of child protection in Norway, a service provided in close cooperation with the public. Private institutions form an important part of state child protection because they offer differentiated services to children and young people in need of housing. Not all municipalities are able to have an institution. SV is also negative to tenders, but the choice of the right service provider is ensured by tendering, because in a competition there is a requirement, and there is a need to demonstrate whether it is quality, whether you have the right staff, whether there is good competence of the employees, and not least the price. You also talk about the private taking out large profits. The Menon report has demonstrated that the commercial companies are channelling most of the profits back into operation. That report came now. So there is no evidence that today's tender system leads to short-term care and constant transfers. Ideal child-restraint institutions are becoming increasingly involved in child-restraint protection, and the Stortinget has decided to increase the proportion of non-profit institutions in the field of institutions to 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2420	I believe that the goal must be the best of the child and not ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2423	First, I just want to straighten out an incurrency. The working party shall, out of the first majority comment in the vote, from page 1 to page 2. Children in need of child protection deserve the best from the community, security and stability. The National Audit Office's report on emergency services, various worrying incidents at child protection institutions and the concerns expressed by professionals of different kinds, I think that is why we are very often discussing child protection in the United Kingdom now. The government continues to pretend that the criticism is not there, preferring to continue as before and seems to be more concerned with criticising the opposition than with strengthening municipal child protection. In our company, the Workers' Party promoted a proposal here in Stortinget to step down the commercial part of child protection for the benefit of public and ideal offers. That was essentially five reasons why we promoted this proposal. The first reason is that sharing a family is the most serious intervention a society can do, and that legal certainty must therefore have the highest priority. The second reason is that there are conflicting considerations in terms of both making money and securing profits, while at the same time providing services in line with good authority. It's challenging the hyperbola. The third reason is that the quality of child protection can be improved by the fact that the money allocated to the state budget is actually maintained in the field of child protection. The basis for a continuous call for private commercial groups to enrich the Community's child protection appropriations and move profits to foreign bank accounts must end. Fourth reason: the Labour Party is concerned with reducing the number of red tape. Every child and every family is unique. The children are not fit to be divided into price units with profit as a motive. And the fifth reason is that non-profit-making NPISHs have a long tradition of cooperating with the public on important and quality well-being services. Through the policy of the right-wing government, these have come under increasing pressure. The protection of the children of the future must be built around the development and strengthening of this cooperation, at the best of children and their parents, not with degradation, as we have seen this government do now, and as the majority of the population have fortunately put an end to it by agreeing that the government must ensure long-term and ongoing agreements with non-profit providers of institution-places, so that the proportion of ideals increases to about 40 p.m. by 2025. That was a good suggestion. The Labour Party looks forward to the government presenting the follow-up to this decision to the Stortinget, for the benefit of the children in need of protection, for employees who strive to extend to municipal child protection, for non-profit organisations and for society. The Labour Party will support proposal No. 5, which has been promoted in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2438	Today, we are dealing with a proposal for a representative on people in front of markets in the field of child protection. On 28 May this year, we are discussing a proposal for a representative on public and non-profit-making child protection. On 12 December last, we discussed a proposal for a representative to ensure a safe and stable child protection without any profit. On 20 June last, we discussed a proposal for a representative to ensure the protection of children without any profit. These are some of the representatives of the red-greens who have been in opposition in recent years. In addition, there are a number of proposals in budgetary procedures and other major issues. All of these proposals have two things in common. Firstly, the proposals are a direct attack on all the well-functioning offers in the child protection sector that are incidentally privately owned. Secondly, the proposals have in common that they come after the red-green parties have been overthrown the country and child protection continuously for eight years. It was eight years when public authorities continued to use private providers of child protection services. The most important thing for those concerned with good child protection should be the quality and content of the service provision and the proper protection of the legal security of children and families. For the Advancement Party, the most important thing is that children get the best offer, not who runs it. I think the chairman of the committee had a very good speech, but I would nevertheless like to stress that today, private actors are a very important contributor to child protection. In close cooperation with the public, private actors account for about half of today’s services. I am pleased that we have different actors who contribute to better services for children. Kids are like all of us, they're different, and they're unique. In fact, having access to different actors is important in order to provide children with the best possible range of services. Of course, private action must follow the same quality requirements as public policy. Private action is also followed up by, among others. supervision. Of course, we will continue to make clear and strict demands on both the content and quality of child services, and we must recognise that there may be potential challenges with different actors in child protection. But that's something I see the Department and the Council are taking very seriously. Finally, I would like to mention that I am strongly responding to the phrase «to put people on the market». Services are offered, not people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2453	We must strive to work for the protection of children who carry out their social work in a good way. The welfare sector is being commercialised at an increasing pace and child protection is now a commercial market. It loses the children, the employees, the private ideal actors and the community. Most Nordics believe that tax-funded welfare services should be operated in such a way as to ensure that funding goes unabated to child protection, school, kindergarten, care for the elderly, etc. They don't do that today. Humana, who has activities in the care sector, including child protection, says that in 2018 they have paid only 0.49 pst. of the turnover. This may look small, but the total turnover of the commercial child protection companies in Norway from 2012 to 2016 was 13.2 billion. kr. With a dividend of 0.49 pst. That would be 63 million. kr of the common fund – funds that are eligible for dividends. Which party here in the hall would claim that 63 million. In the public budgets are small amounts of money? At least the centre party doesn't think so. We believe it is time to scrap the tender system. The centre party wants safe, predictable and qualitatively good services. A tendering regime is about providing a service as efficiently as possible and keeping costs down. Human needs are rapidly becoming invisible. Today’s tendering system poses a risk of rewarding unprofessional actors such as underprice services, for example: by having poor working conditions for employees or inadequate services. The bureaucracy required to handle bidding rounds is also extensive. The centre party considers that the present tendering system should be terminated in favour of quality-based long-term contracts. Therefore, together with the SV, the Centre promotes proposals to terminate the use of competitive outsourcing and offers in the child protection sector and to ensure that private non-profit institutions have long-term contracts with the public. In addition, we promote proposals to ensure that actors receiving government grants for the operation of child protection measures have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those in force in the public sector. The central party does not otherwise disagree with the intentions of the other proposals, but considers the proposals No. 1 and 2 are opaque. We also support the loose proposal SV has included in the case. Norwegian welfare services have become a gold mine for investors. It's high time the Storting put on the brake blocks. It's a shame we don't get the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the government parties to change course right now – but maybe later. I'm addressing the suggestions we've been making with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2472	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2477	All children have the right to care and protection. The Norwegian model to help children who do not receive the care they need and are entitled to is perhaps the best in the world. Fortunately, we all agree on that here in the Chamber. But what we surprisingly do not agree on is the principle that the community's money allocated to the care and protection of children should go to exactly that, and nothing else – a perfectly reasonable and sensible requirement, supported by a majority of the population in all the studies that have been carried out on the issue. In particular, there is an important requirement because the commercialisation of child protection has gone a long way. Four of the five largest commercial child protection companies are owned by buying-in funds registered in tax havens and the ideals are squandered. It goes beyond the diversity of service. It affects the employees who have to pay for the outsourcing in terms of poorer conditions, and it goes not least to the seventh and ultimately always beyond the children, among other things. when the tourover is high among employees, the unforeseeableness is great, and when the money to go to their offer disappears to something else. The whole commercialisation of child protection has been made possible by the tendering system — a system that pushes prices and makes it difficult for the small ideals to compete, but simply for the large commercial ones with bidding devices. But the worst of all with the tendering regime is that there are not only services out on offer, but also every child, even if the representatives from the right have not brought it. Few are aware that individual children are put on the market through the single-buying procedure. Extensive and detailed descriptions of the individual child are sent from Bufetat to various suppliers, who then bid for the child. I've seen these descriptions myself, and it's rough -- it's rough and shocking to see how we run child protection in Norway today. Then there will be rounds of negotiations, back and forth. In one example, which is not unique, it was negotiated down to $18 difference in the food budget for a child. The small ideals don't have the chance to be part of such a regime, and they don't want it because it's unethical either. The use of single purchases is particularly dangerous in the case of emergency placements. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee also agreed when they dealt with the Riksrevision's criticism of the child protection obligation a few weeks ago. Acute locations take place in a few hours and there is no possibility of quality control. That's what Bufdir himself says. But practice continues. This year it is expected to be 400 single purchases, and most of them relate to emergency placements. We can't have it like that. That is why SV is very happy that our loose proposal, which I am now addressing, gets a majority in the Chamber today. It's about propriety, putting people in front of markets in child protection. I refer to the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2500	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2505	It is as several representatives have pointed out, with a certain sense of déjà vu I stand here and discuss something that we have after all had several times. But I would like to say this again: all children in Norway should have a safe growth and have the opportunity and freedom to create a good life. For those kids who get a tough start to life, it's extra important to follow up. We need child protection with employees with the skills needed to deliver a quality offer. Child guards do an invaluable job. Their job is to create security, joy, self-confidence and confidence in the future where the starting point is something else. Our children are the most important thing we have, and those are the ones we're going to put first. My opinion is that most people who work in child protection have a desire to help the children they come in contact with, regardless of whether their salary is paid by the municipality or by private individuals. The municipalities themselves are pleased that there are others who provide child protection services to which they do not extend. The most important thing, despite the existence of the ministry, is timely, and not least that it is good — not who delivers it. Commercial institutions are subject to the same quality requirements and supervision as other institutions and no systematic differences in quality have been detected. So I can understand that the opposition is taking a choice here from a notion of its own ideal situation, but here I have to demand some pragmatism. The left is in favour of a strong public welfare offer, but we also believe that diversity is good, so that different people can choose different solutions, so that innovative and different businesses can get on the road and show their way – within strict quality frameworks, of course, so that the public is constantly teasing. And not least: the variety is good when the public does not stretch to and does not have the power to run an equally large and good offer itself. So this is it with tendering processes. I think, as several representatives have also pointed out, that it is a rather strange rhetorical approach to say that people are being put on the market. But I've heard it before, after all, I've been a youth politician and participated in a number of school debates. Procurement processes are also an opportunity to make demands in parallel with driving innovation, and that is what we want to do. I look forward to several of these debates in the future, because I believe it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2520	If I'm not completely wrong, I think that's the fourth time this committee is dealing with a child protection issue. I think it's good, because this is really a service that needs to be focused a lot on politics. After all, we talk about our most vulnerable children, children and young people living in conditions that can damage both health and development. They deserve the best care we can give them, and it must be a timely care. It has been decided here at Stortinget that a sample should be set up to look at how public funds are used, against both private and non-profit, to ensure that the money spent on child protection goes and becomes the best for the children. This is a sample that is not yet done with its work, but we are waiting for what it will conclude with, and not least what it will make with recommendations. I would also like to remind you of what the Stortinget has adopted on 28 May 2018: ‘The government is asked to secure long-term and ongoing contracts with non-profit institutions serving households, leading to an increase in the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households to around 40 p.m. by 2025, while not reducing the public share of institutional places.» This is a work with which the government has been required to work. What gives cause for concern, however, is the issue of single purchases, and especially in the case of emergencies and emergency placements. The Christian People's Party has also brought with it the National Auditor's report and criticism, and here there's really reason to be concerned about whether children get the follow-up that's best for their children. We are unsure whether the follow-up is good enough for such individual purchases and especially for emergency placements. That is why the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. 5, from SV, in the case. We do not support the other proposals. We're waiting for this sample to come up with its advice and recommendations. But proposal No. 5, from SV, I would recommend the Christian People's Party big group to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2543	Should we leave the care of the most vulnerable children and young people to commercial, profit-motivated owners? That is at the heart of the matter we are discussing in the Chamber today. Many of us see that when it happens, when giving profit to the owners is most important, the children are no longer in the center. This increases the risk that children and young people do not receive the offer they should receive and that they are entitled to. These are our children, and there is the community's money, granted to child protection, which should go to these children and not to a few who enrich themselves in child protection. We know that good care requires that you have competent employees who also have neat and proper working conditions. We have seen several examples in the last year, from among others. Heima and Aleris, on both fear culture, understaffing and also difficult working conditions. These are examples that go into a wide range of issues that show that child protection is not suitable for commercial use. The scandals with Heima and Aleris are examples of a system in which private profit is derived on tax-funded welfare services by cutting the pay and working conditions of employees, which, of course, in the next round goes beyond the quality of the services offered to users. That's why we, and more and more, are against profit taken out of, among other things. the protection of children. We also see commercial growth through purchasing, by purchasing both non-profit actors and local actors, and that there are now five difficult groups that dominate the private part of child protection – Aleris, Humana, Team Olivia, Unicare and Aberia – four of them owned by foreign funds, many of them also in tax havens. We believe that there is cooperation between public and non-profit actors, rather than releasing the profit motive in child protection, which is the way to go. We want a system where all the money goes unabated to the best of the children and not to private profit. And we remember Hofstad Helleland as Minister of Culture, who fought hard to get all the money for sports to go to sports and not for parties and other purposes, but we don't see the same strength at Hofstad Helleland to ensure that money for child protection goes to the best of the children. But we are principled and consistent: we want to ensure that the money allocated to child protection goes to the best of the children and does not disappear out of the country to purchase funds in tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2554	Children in need of out-of-home action shall receive a stable offer adapted to their situation and needs. It is about the quality and content of the service, and it is given in a timely manner. The commercials contribute to it. It also did so under the previous government, where SV was sitting. I believe that there is still a proper use of commercial actors, that it is a good thing in this sector. In its work on child protection reform, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has obtained a significant knowledge base on this. Ministry announced in Prop. 73 L for 2016-2017 that there is a need to assess the framework for private use. We have. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, by letter to all municipalities in Norway, has explained in detail when and how municipalities can use private actors in the field of child protection. I have also undertaken extensive internal work to review the framework for private child protection, the aim of which is to ensure the proper use of private actors, efficient use of resources, and that the legal security of children and families is adequately ensured. We also have an ongoing external investigation on how to ensure equal pay, employment and pension conditions between public and private actors. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is also involved in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries's sample to identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services. Bufetate itself has taken several steps to strengthen its governance and control of the content and costs of the services it acquires. I am pleased that the committee has noticed that the government has initiated many processes regarding the use of private, non-profit and commercial suppliers. When we see the significant contribution that commercial actors make in both the state and municipal child protection, I am concerned that the proposal that we have to deal with today will pose a risk to the provision of the children we are talking about here. In addition, this proposal will also intervene in the already ongoing and comprehensive work initiated by this government, a review of the use of private actors, which the red-green government did not do in its time. We look forward to the results of that work, so that the use will be sound and best for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2572	We in the Center Party want all the money we spend on child protection to go back to child protection. And then we're very concerned that the private, ideal actors are a great and very good supplement to the public. But I'm very uncertain about what the minister really thinks about this. When we pay extra tribute to the ideal actors and want to cut down on the commercial ones, and the minister has been given the task of ensuring that we have a different strategy for this, I should like to know already now: What does the Minister really think about cutting down on the commercial ones for the sake of the ideals? Does she want to work actively for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2579	We assume that all private actors should, of course, follow the same quality requirements as the public. We're going to assume that we're not going to pay more for the private services than we need, and we're going to assume that the private actors are going to be a supplement to the public. Of course, we follow up the decision of the Storting in the government, but we have to make sure that we do not erase much of the child protection by cutting down on the commercial players. The public and the ideals are far from being able to bear the responsibility of providing a service that is good enough for all children around Norway. If we followed up the proposal of the Center Party, we could risk that a quick translation of the proposal would mean that very many children around the whole of Norway would have been without a child protection offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2586	The single call for tenders for the place of establishment ensures that each child is put up for tender. A few weeks ago, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee examined this practice in relation to emergency placements. A significant risk of safety was identified because it is not possible to carry out quality control, and that is what Bufdir says. We're gambling with some of the most vulnerable children we have. Nevertheless, from Bufdir's own figures, we can see that this practice is extensive and increasing. It is estimated that around 190 emergency placements will be made by single purchase in 2018. I would ask the Council of State to explain how the government can let this happen, while there is a broad consensus that practice is dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2593	As the representative of Øvstegård knows well, there are very complicated things we are talking about here. There are children with great needs, and there are acute needs. Initially, Buffetat would have wanted all the places available himself, but it is not possible to have it in all municipalities throughout the country at any time. Then we had used too many parts of the child protection budget in empty places. So it's not right what is said here, that for each case and each child information is made known. No information on single children is given in the public notice of these tenders. It is primarily when Bufetat has found a solution that information on actions for each child is known. In practice, it is often the case that once the offer adapted to the individual child is found, it is sent information about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2600	As Minister of Culture, Hofstad Helleland is a lion for the proper use of Community funds. Each receipt from the tops of the NIF was to be presented and examined, and that was good and good. With regard to the use of child protection money, we do not see the same efforts by the minister as we saw when she was a sports minister. We know that profitability is between 22 and 23 pst. for commercial child protection, a huge profit. Money is taken from child protection for private enrichment. I wonder if the Council of State can give a good explanation as to why it is right to take profit out of child protection. What is the principle reason why the Right wants owners, often in tax havens, to be able to get money out of child protection? Can't the public and private, ideal do the job together, without the profit motive for which you are?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2609	There is, of course, a reason why a market of private operators has emerged in this field. It is because the public alone is unable to offer a service to each child that child protection is provided to help. These are children who have complex needs. It's a difficult situation, it's an emergency situation, and it's turned out that the private actors are a completely necessary supplement. They are important contributors to ensuring that child protection can provide good enough services to the children who need it. So we've told the government that we want to review the cash flows of the private actors. This is necessary because there are a number of claims that it is important to get more knowledge about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2616	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2624	I must first be allowed to correct an error in my previous article. I said Socialist People's Party -- there might have been some people who noticed in it. Then I'm just going to be sorry. It's the Socialist Left Party. Then we've made it clear. We have a recurring debate – this is probably the fourth time – on the use of private commercial actors in child protection. I think this is a good debate to have because it says something about the lines of policy in terms of welfare services, between SV, Red and the Workers' Party on the one hand, and Right – I get a speech for the Right – on the other. We're concerned that it's not only about child protection, but also that private hospitals, specialist health services and kindergartens can be a good supplement to the public, and that you can buy services from them, which are to benefit those who are going to use it. There are quite strict quality requirements for all these services, so there should be no difference between being treated in a private child protection institution or in a public child protection institution. As I said, we don't have the capacity to have public institutions across the country. We also need to get help from private people. In terms of private commercial requirements, they are required to have a buffer – that is, simply a capital that enables them to withstand fluctuations when they do not receive a tender. These include: on the security of employees, and it is a question of pension conditions. So that's a requirement that you set to the private, that they actually have to have a profit. With regard to what is said about fear culture, understaffing and difficult working conditions in the private sector, there is no evidence to suggest that there is any more of it in the private sector than in the public sector. In that case, I would like proof of that. The government has also said to look at how the operation of private child protection services is carried out — look at both wages, employment and pension conditions, which are to be in line with public activities. So I'm again concerned that it's the service of the child and the quality of the one that has to be the important and the overall. Finally, the ideals have not been squandered. On the contrary, the Storting has decided to increase the activity, and they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2639	Why do we have so many private, commercial providers in Norwegian Child Protection? Well, that's because we have a policy that adds up to it. In spring 2017, this government presented a child protection reform. In it they made it possible for more private providers to get into child protection, and for us to get more market thinking in child protection. Good intentions about the best of children, increasing local responsibility and competence were not followed up. Increased price competition and more use of economic incentives were suggested by the government in the reform of child protection to ensure the stability of children in support services and the best possible professional provision. For example, municipalities got full responsibility for the foster homes. Local authorities were given higher ownership of the use of institutions and have to pay a certain percentage of the actual cost of institutions. This is what they call full price differentiation, and one would think there was a notice about the commercial industry and not about child protection a talk about that time. They also introduced municipal freedom of choice, which meant that, on the basis of the full price differentiation scheme, municipalities would choose freely among the institutions that the State provided to the child. Thus, the government would force municipalities to give priority to prevention measures, and institutions would be more competitive about young people on a price-based basis. By giving municipalities full responsibility for the paying of foster homes, full price differentiation in institutional places and municipal freedom of choice, the focus on the purchase and sale of services was to be added to the system. But will this economic and market focus on child protection provide more security for children and provide them with the help they need? Of course not, child protection must be financed as necessary, and the necessary professional measures for children must not be overrun by market-adapted financial instruments. Giving more space to supply, competition and economic incentives is the last thing that child protection needs. The only data such a system provides are those who want to develop more private, commercial actors in the field. That they're going to take out profit, it's probably all right for the government, but it shouldn't be. It should be quite central that public tax money that goes to child protection must be used for precisely this and not for the benefit of commercial operators. Someone ate the Stortinget discusses child protection too often. That's wrong. We'll discuss it too little. When the Council of State says that the public will not be able to provide enough services to vulnerable children, it is serious. We must stop the productivity focus and market thinking that currently permeates Norwegian child protection. Providing the safety of a child is a bad starting point if the goal is the best for a child.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2648	There is something strange and something that suggests that some representatives from the government parties do not listen to the posts being made, because when I make a post, and then the representative from the left – who is not in the room anymore, I see – and repeat the same error, and then the government council does it in the next row too, you have to wonder if they are listening at all, because this is about an individual child on the offer. This is about descriptions being sent to suppliers – quite thick and detailed descriptions. I have seen one of these myself and I wish I could get one with me today, so that I could show it out. Maybe you'd have believed it then. I think this is grossly unethical. I also notice a couple of mastery techniques in the hall, for example. that it is a déjà vu that we often discuss this matter. Yes, we will continue to discuss this matter. We have had the impression – the representatives of the government parties like to mention it ourselves – that we should monitor the flows of money in public-funded well-being. It's great and it was SV's suggestion. We've got through for 40 pst. the ideal proportion of the institutional premises. It's great and it was the Workers' Party's proposal. And we've had the advantage of evaluating equal and better working conditions in child protection, public as commercial. It was also the opposition's proposal and is very important and fine. I also find it strange that the government parties so smoothly overlook what both the ideals themselves say, what the children's protection themselves and their organizations say, and not least what the employees say themselves. Let me take one quote, which you can read in the newspaper today, from the National Children's Protection Association. The person who speaks is himself a former child protection child. He says, ‘It can feel demeaning, plain and plain. There was one who said, "There's a price on my head anyway." It is felt that the public interest is about how much you can cost, and that makes the extraterrestrial feel stronger." This is about the practice of children on offer. The representatives of the government parties also refer to capacity and that there must be a market, as the Minister for Child Protection himself said, because there is not enough public capacity. This reminds me of a quote from Margaret Thatcher, who said, "There is no alternative." But yes, that's an alternative. The commercial entry into Norwegian Child Protection began in the 1990s. It doesn't have to be like that. We can build a public, ideal child protection service in Norway and put people in front of markets. It's about politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2664	About half of all child protection services in this country are provided by private actors. The services are provided according to the absolute quality requirements applicable to the protection of children. All conditions of competition include clauses on competence, manpower, remuneration and employment. All deliveries will be carefully checked. Public and private actors complement each other and work together to provide the best possible service for the children. That is the reality that the proposal for a representative must be seen in the light of. Child protection is a demanding service, where individual and often acute needs have to be met with great flexibility. The important thing is not who is responsible for the operation, but that the children get the best offer. Competition and the use of market mechanisms about services, not about humans, contribute to this – not least for those people with the greatest need for help. Bufdir figures show that private operators are the country’s main support player in providing services to the heaviest users. A whole 66 pst. of the children with the highest risk of behaviour, there is an institution in private homes. 47 pst. by those with a slightly lower risk of behaviour, they are assisted by private individuals. 26 pst. of the emergency positions in institutions are made by private individuals. In these areas, the ideal actors are virtually absent. For many years, private individuals have built a solid environment of competence for the most demanding users. This is what the representatives of the Supreme Court and the Lighthouse propose to rage. It offers neither predictability, stability, professionalism nor safety for the children – on the contrary. The money allocated to child protection benefits the children. According to a recent report from Menon Economics, which shows the cash flows in child protection, the private operators had an operating margin of 5 pst. Of this profit, 74 pst went. return to operation, and 22 pst. went to pay taxes. Bufdir not only sets quality requirements; it is also required that private finances are sufficient to reach agreement with the public. Without taking the financial risk of having the capacity to provide short and demanding institutional stays when the need arises, the private sector would not be able to deliver, inter alia, the following: adequate emergency areas or space for the heaviest users. An operating margin of 5 pst. is to be regarded as the lower limit on the carrying of such a risk. While SV repeats its proposals, the government is working, and I am happy to have a responsible Workers' Party, and that this time they recognize the importance of investigating the consequences before decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2677	Child protection is not trade. I'm almost put out of posts like the previous one, where we talk about operating distances and deliveries. Child protection is not a delivery. Child protection is a matter of concern and must be of safety. What would the right-hand side do if there was no one willing to take this risk in the private sector? Should we not have child protection? Of course, it is possible to build this up much more in the public sector than we have done today, but the choice that the government is making is the opposite, namely, to build down. When paying for this, it is also necessary to own the competence of the public sector itself and to use it further for this important work – not to pay to build up skills and assets in the private sector that are lost at the next crossroads. I get very worried when I hear these arguments, because it indicates that you are not concerned about child protection, but that you are concerned about creating markets for private actors. I notice that the Council of State does not respond to the representative of the Supreme Court's question as to what is the reason why it should be possible to collect profits or profits in this business. This is something we're going to do, but not because someone's going to have a business. We're going to do this because there are some kids who need help. I've said it before: I'm a very happy taxpayer, so was I when I was a kindergarten assistant and I served very poorly. But even I know that I'm getting quite laughed at if my tax money is going to go to child protection, but large parts of them end up like profits and profits in companies in tax havens that don't even contribute to paying for the fissure layer. That there's something we're going to invite the Norwegian population to join and pay for, I strongly disagree. Then we talk about diversity and innovation: Yes, then we have to wish, would and would enable those who run child protection in the public sector to do so. Then we can't hold on and tighten up in the public sector with so-called efficiency reforms, and then let the money flow out when it's for private businesses. Now when you talk about risk by building up in the public sector and not using so many commercial ones, I have to say that it shows how irresponsible this is going to be – not to talk about the use of money. Every crown we grant for this should go to child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2690	It's going to be quick and easy when we talk about commercialization and business and commercial companies. What we're talking about is children who have a daily life they can't live with. Those are the kids we're talking about. We're talking about the parents who need someone to take care of their children. In Kristiansand, three of the departments of Near Care South were closed, decided to close. Why? Well, because they didn't have qualified professionals for these children, which they should have had. This could have been a somatic department in the hospital, where seriously ill children with epilepsy, for example, came to a children's ward, and then the parents got the following message: Sorry, we don't have enough professionalism here, so we'll transfer you to a nursing home where they have doctors, and where the child will of course get food and proper medicine. Those are the kids we're talking about. We can't do that in Norway. It is pointed out here that it is SV, Red and the Workers' Party that are opposed to commercialisation. No, it's the Christian People's Party and the Center Party as well, so it's just the three parties that are now in government that won't change the matter. The kids themselves say it's problematic. Are we going to listen to the kids who actually made it? The National Association for Children's Protection and the Change Factory is clear that there is too little predictability; there is a lack of stability; there is too little security for those who need it the most. And the representative of the National Children's Protection Association who speaks to the Daily newspaper today also says that it gives a kind of stigma, because people know which institutions treat those who need it the most. The ideal providers and partners say that they want to contribute, so that you can get away from the secret crème in question. Now it's going to be business secrets. Children in need of community support are too good to remain business secrets to commercial operators in the welfare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2703	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2719	I just have a short comment on the race. 855, entry 22, which is really what we've been talking about in the last case, because this is about having to have more money to meet the increased need for emergency placements in the Child Protection Service. The Committee has asked the Council of State why it is so and has been given an overview of providers. It's basically the commercial providers that get. But what I think is problematic is that this comes after we have received a national audit report that points to serious errors and deficiencies with emergency measures. Here we have received a comment from the government in the form of a letter where the minister writes that this is due to an increase in the number of children enrolled in emergency measures, and that there is an increase in the number of children with special needs for specialised measures. So that's why they've been exposed to $119 million. kr, which the government must provide. It is problematic that the technical committee should not be given better information on the type of serious errors that the Riksrevision has detected. We have now, through this supplementary proposition and through the question we asked the Council of State, been given an explanation of why that is so. I expect the Council of State, after a well-deserved Christmas and New Year's holiday, to see that the Scientific Committee is also briefed on the reason for what has happened in emergency child protection – that is, the increase that the Council of State itself points to, and what measures have been taken to change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2728	We've strengthened the state child protection by 250 million in the neo-age years. DKr, of which 187 out of the 250 million. kr has been proposed to be granted over item 1. The majority of the amount goes to the own resources of the State. As indicated in the draft budget, the increase in appropriations is due to more children in need of emergency measures and more children with special needs. In front of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee's hearing, I explained how the government wants to follow up challenges in the field of emergency and how we think they can best be solved. We have a great deal of attention to be paid to the field of emergency in the field of legislative development, the deployment of skills and the reform of child protection. We have implemented a number of measures and have ongoing measures. What is important to remember in emergency situations is that children who are in an emergency are often in a crisis situation and often have large, complex needs. To ensure that the needs of the child are met in the best possible way, the recruitment of good foster homes is an overall and priority area. We work systematically and with great attention to recruiting a variety of foster families and emergency homes across the country, which can be ready at any time to receive a child on very short notice and who has enough resources to take care of an emergency child in a good way. In March, in order to ensure that the interpretation of Bufetat’s obligation to provide assistance is as consistent as possible, Bufdir brought together and clarified the key rules on the obligation to provide assistance in a separate interpretation opinion. But I have said that if that is not enough, I also consider clarifying it in the law sent out to the hearing during the winter. Acute placements are a major challenge for children and their parents, and the involvement of the child’s family and networks can make the child safer and help prevent emergency placements. That is why I have said that I want the number of emergency positions to decrease. This means that child protection has to go into the past – not just with relief measures, but it has to go into earlier dialogue and cooperation with the parents, the family and the network of the child in order to find a solution in the past and to avoid having to go to the emergency stage, when we know how much pressure it can be on the individual child. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee had a very good debate on the National Audit Office's report on the obligation to provide assistance in a short time. In many cases, there is a different interpretation between the municipality and Bufatat. The municipality sees and takes into account other needs, such as: the emergency home must be in the municipality. It is often the case that, with its professional approach, Buffetat advises the municipality and wants another measure to be put in place for the child. What is experienced in most cases, and which also appeared at the hearing, is that there is a good dialogue between the municipality and Bufetat in these cases, where a good solution is found in cooperation. If the Committee wishes to make a statement on this matter, in addition to the hearing held by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and in addition to the good and thorough debate we had here last week, I naturally come with pleasure and explain further all the measures that the government is now working to provide emergency children and the emergency measures we have. In any case, I can stress that the Government and the Ministry follow up on the comments of the National Audit Office, and I have taken the view that the follow-up of the Swedish Audit Office report will also take place at regular meetings through the follow-up of the National Audit Office and the examination of this matter by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2745	The role of the National Audit Board and the Audit Committee and the Constitutional Committee is to look back. Our task is to learn from this and look forward to it. I think the Council of State was a little more clear at the end of its article, but otherwise quite vague about what measures she was going to take. It is rare to see such a crass criticism from the National Audit Office. When the Riksrevision says that this is a violation of the principle of the child's best, it's about an overall level of wild roads. It is partly about the size of the emergency decision that you simply cannot handle it in a good way and give your children a place in the vicinity with the soft transition required. It turns out that an emergency decision is demanding. These are children who have very often experienced many fractures in their lives, who have little confidence in adults, who feel insecure, and then in many cases they are actually being traumatized by an emergency position that might have been done in a much better way. Sometimes it's absolutely necessary, and we've heard shocking stories where you haven't intervened. I believe that many in the Child Welfare Service are also afraid to intervene once too little. However, it must be possible for a Council of State to be more offensive about how, overall, to better resolve individual cases, to reduce the number of emergency placements, to provide sufficient capacity for the emergency placements carried out, and to provide the resources needed by municipalities. When I started to engage in politics 30 years ago, child protection was one of the most important things I was involved in. That time we talked about directory kids. Then there were hundreds, if not thousands, of untreated things around. Fortunately, 30 years later, we may not have so many untreated folder cases, but we still have a big gap in the range of measures that should be implemented much earlier than when you come to a repositioning and at least an emergency position. We had a round about the commercial offer in the previous debate. There are many private actors who are doing a very brave job, but here we need a comprehensive public policy that responds to the needs of some of the most vulnerable in our society. They have few spokesmen and spokesmen. They are not a large group on election day, but they really deserve to be seen by a government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2758	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2774	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2790	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2802	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2811	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward in all. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 4 and 5, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No 6, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 7-9, by Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 10 and 11, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President takes note of the fact that the proposal No. 10 and 11 were submitted after the deadline set out in the first paragraph of Section 40 of the Rules of Procedure, and the proposals will therefore not be voted on. Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an overview of the number of armed actions carried out by the police in 2018, including the number of police officers who have been armed in the various actions, and, if so, whether the weapon has been actively used by handguns being pulled out of shells or otherwise actively used in the use of force.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2854	Proposal No. 5 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to quickly facilitate the expansion of Vik and Hustad prisons, as well as the design of Sunnmøre and Ilseng prisons.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2871	Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to secure Mold Dinghui’s defensive courtrooms.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2888	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked within the current budgetary framework to facilitate the non-use of duplication in criminal justice.’;» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2905	Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to carry out a thorough analysis of police staffing and resource needs based on the task developments in recent years and analyses of the police’s expected future tasks.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2923	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that as much as possible of the budgetary resources allocated by the Stortinget to the police are transferred to the police districts and that the use of money in the Police Directorate is restricted’.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2940	Proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals as soon as possible to facilitate, where appropriate, the conduct of a simplified personal survey in cases where a complaint has been made against children aged 15 to 18 years. Simplification of personal survey may imply that criminal services meet as a witness to the court rather than that compulsory personal survey of minors is carried out in advance [[PUM]] The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e2957	Proposal No. 7 and 8 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to implement closures of settlements or settlements in the West until the consequences of the possible continuation of operations, including the Osterøy division of Bergen in prison, have been presented to the Stortinget. In order to ensure a broad analysis of the impact, the Osterøy Division of Bergen is included in the ongoing KVU of the West Region of Criminal Welfare.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the settlements of Hassel Prison, Arendal Prison. Hope, Hedmark prison. Bruvoll, Søndre Vestfold prison unit. Sandefjord and North Westfold prison. Court.’» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have every subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e5410	Behind the advice is the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e5521	There shall be a vote over B I to V and VIII to XVIII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e5535	It's going to be over B VI. The Socialist Left Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e5549	It's going to be over B VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e5563	A total of two proposals have been put forward by Mrs Enger Mehl on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that passports are established or maintained in the following locations, in addition to the passport offices, which the government itself proposes to continue: 1st@item: inlistbox Båtsfjord Länsmannskontoret 2nd@item: inlistbox Karasjok Lensmannskontoret 3rd@item: inlistbox Kautokeino Länsmannskontoret 4th@item: inlistbox Lebesby Länsmannskontoret 5th@item: inlistbox Másøy Länsmannskontoret 6th@item: inlistbox Nordkapp lensmannskontoret 7th@item: inlistbox Lyngen Lentilsmannskontoret Eight. Eagle Ling Man’s Office 9th@item: inlistbox Grong Lentilsmanskontoret 10th@item: inlistbox Hitra bilgemanskontoret 11th@item: inlistbox Verdal/Levanger Lensmannskontoret 12th@item: inlistbox Central Gauldal County Länsmannskontoret 13th@item: inlistbox Rissa Lensmannskontoret 14th @item: inlistbox Røros Länsmannskontoret 15th Aure Lensmannskontoret 16th@item: inlistbox Eide and Fränna lensmannskontoret 17. Haram Länsmannskontoret 18th@item: inlistbox Rauma Lensmannskontoret 19th@item: inlistbox Tingvoll Lensmannskontoret 20. Vanylven lensmannskontoret 21st Last@item: inlistbox Vestnes Länsmannskontoret 22nd@item: inlistbox Ashøy Länsmannskontoret 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Ecstasy of Lensmannskontoret 24th@item: inlistbox Fåler Länsmannkontoret 25-digit number Fusa Länsmannskontoret 26. Gloppen lensmannskontoret 27. Hoånger bilgemanskontoret 28. Quam Länsmannskontoret 29. Women’s Herded Lenader’s Office 30. Lærdal County Länsmannskontoret 31. Stryn and Hornindal Lensmannskontoret Thirty-two. Vågsøj lenmannskontoret Thirty-three. Årdal Länsmannskontoret Thirty-four. Bamble Länsmannskontoret Thirty-five. Hol Länsmannskontoret Thirty-six. Kragerø Police Station Thirty-seven. Modum Länsmannskontoret Thirty-eight. Lower Eiker Länsmannskontoret Thirty-nine. Nore and Uvdal Länsmannskontoret 40, 40, Smoke and Hurum lensmannskontoret 41. Seljord Länsmannskontoret 42. Upper Eiker Länsmannskontoret 43. Dokka Länsmannskontoret 44. Dombås Länsmannskontoret 45. Loom bilgemanskontoret 46. Left bilgeman’s office 47. Fleasa Länsmannskontoret 48. Koppelang Länsmannskontor 49. Aurskog-Høland County Länsmannskontoret 50. Eidsvoll-Hurdal Lensmannskontoret 51. Furnace bilge-man's office 52. Nittedal County Länsmannskontoret Fifty-three. Lørenskog Länsmannskontoret 54. Nes Länsmannskontoret [[in Akershus]] 55. Inner Eastfold Police Station Fifty-six. Flekkefjord and Kvinesdal County Länsmannskontoret 57. Mandal Police Station 58. Tvedestrand and Veggershei Länsmannskontoret 59. Valle and Bykle Länsmannskontoret 60. Jären Länsmannskontoret 61. Karmøy Länsmannskontoret Sixty-two. Lund Länsmannskontoret Sixty-three. Sauda Länsmannskontoret Sixty-four. Sirdal County Länsmannskontoret 65. Southern County bilgemanskontoret’» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e5719	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that all officers’ offices and police stations remaining after the implementation of the reform are able to issue passports.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7089	It's getting wet over II. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7103	It's getting wet over I.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7235	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 2 and 3, by Freddy André Hövstegård on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 5-7, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 5-7, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The new Action Plan for Increasing Gender Equality in Norwegian Movies shall include the following instruments: Public film aid shall be distributed equally between women and men within the various aid schemes over a period of three years. If, during a three-year period, the sum of the aid awarded is not shared equally between women and men, the most central film support schemes of the Film Fund must be assessed in two.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the Film Fund financially.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the film regions financially.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7283	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to set a target of 50/50 women and men in key positions in front and behind camera in Norwegian film, to replace the 40/60 target.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7300	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian Film Institute to present a more committed action plan for increasing equality in Norwegian films and to make regular reporting requirements on achievement of the target. This new action plan shall include the following instruments: The 2010 non-implemented film proposal for action by the Industry Council shall be implemented. An attempt is made over three years with increased ex-post support for films with women in key positions, as has been done with the ex-post aid to speed up the production of children’s films.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asking the Government to bring proceedings for the Storting for the establishment of the co-financing scheme, in line with the Audiovisual Media Services Directive Article 13». The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7338	There will be alternative voting between the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new Action Plan for Increasing Gender Equality in Norwegian Movies shall include the following instruments: Better gender balance statistics need to be produced in Norwegian films. The NFI must count more than the producer, director, scriptwriter and leading role, for example, to which film singers women receive support, the size of the budget of each production, the amount of aid and the gender distribution and the development of salary levels in several of the different professional groups involved in film production.» The NFI must be able to explain how the films supported contribute to a more diverse film portfolio. The NFI must make use of all available tools to increase the number of applications from women and minority groups.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. Right, the Progress Party and the Left are behind the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7371	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Åslaug Sem Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the reorganisation of the Swedish Archives Agency by 1 July 2019 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure the role and function of the public archives as managers of the public archives responsible for budgetary, staff and professional quality.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the state responsibility for the archive field with the state archives as the main regional actors in cooperation with other public and private archives.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7400	The Labour Party, Right, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Environment Party The Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7416	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Åslaug Sem Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3-5, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the safety and predictability of children in child protection by terminating and replacing competitive tendering and the single purchase of institutional sites through tenders with competence and quality-based contracts such as extended self-regulation or other long-term and stable forms of contract, and for non-profit actors to take precedence over commercial operators, until commercial operators are out of childcare services.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the Children’s Protection Act in order to ensure that government grants in full benefit to children’s protection and that this money does not benefit commercial child protection actors.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7451	Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to terminate the use of competitive outsourcing and offers in the child protection sector and to secure long-term contracts with the public in the private non-profit sector.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7468	Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to look at the use of single purchases of institutional space in the field of child protection and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner by the end of 2019 with proposals for measures to reduce this practice.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e7492	Alternatively, between the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that actors receiving government grants for the operation of child protection measures have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those in public action.’ Behind the recommendation is the Labour Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e8952	Case No. 9 is the second time the law is being dealt with and is subject to legislation 36. There is no comment suggestion. Thus, the law passed on a second time and was sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-17.ana.ud392e8968	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
