ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-02.ana.ud562e146	In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. Norway is in an upturn. Employment path and unemployment has fallen for almost two years. In August, the registered unemployment rate was 2.4 pst. GDP for mainland Norway increased by 1.9 pst. in 2017 and is estimated to increase more this year. Government pension funds had a combined market value at the end of the first half of 2018 of 8,585 billion. kr. Economic policy has made a significant contribution to economic development in recent years. The expansive budget helped to keep the activity up in time after the oil price drop. At the same time, a low control rate has supported under a weaker crown. Together with moderate payroll, a weaker crown has a better competitive edge. The use of oil revenues in 2018 was estimated at 225.5 billion in the revised national budget. kr. That equals 2.7 pst. by State pension funds abroad at the beginning of 2018. This year the government has been making a great deal of effort to get more people into the world of work. In the inclusion period, public and private actors should work together to get more into ordinary work. A new agreement has been reached with the social partners on a service pension for adding to the public sector. The new pension scheme is better adapted to the policy of the pension reform. Retirement settlement in 2018 was a main concern. Contract audits have essentially been solved through negotiations and mediation. It has our few conflicts. Most people in Norway have defensive work. However, there are challenges in some industries and professions. The government’s strategy against labour-related crime has therefore been continued and expanded. The measures taken in the tax reform on broad tax bases and lower tax rates have been followed up. In 2018, the general income tax rate was reduced by an additional one percentage point to 23 pst. The annual savings for business of simplification measures implemented between 2011 and 2017 amount to more than 15 billion. kr. The government is doing a good job of achieving the new goal, which is to save 10 billion a year. NOK in the period from 2017 to 2021. The government has an active industrial policy with strategies and measures for marine industries, industry and travel through the wide range of instruments. Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood in the world. In 2017, Norway exported seafood for 94,5 billion. kr. The government aims to continue to be a leading port and has launched several major maritime and marine initiatives. Norway has established an international high-level panel on sustainable marine economy, which the Prime Minister is leading. The government has also set up an aid programme for maritime shipping. Following a necessary conversion process in the petroleum industry, the activity on the Norwegian base has developed and the prospects for the future are positive. In 2017, the Ministry of Oil and Energy accepted development plans for ten new oil and gas projects. It is twice as many as in 2016. So far this year the department has taken on three development plans. The government has worked to ensure that Norwegian enterprises have good and sustainable trade policy framework conditions in the WTO. Progress has been made in the free trade negotiations with China. Norway has mobilised to defend the values and institutions on which we build our foreign policy. We have developed multilateral cooperation and the international legal order. Contributing to international security is a core task of foreign policy. Norway has continued to work towards strong transatlantic and European cohesion and has been a driver for strengthening NATO defence capabilities. We have also continued pragmatic cooperation with Russia. Since 2014, the government has strengthened its commitment to closer security policy cooperation in Europe. The government has also continued its contribution to NATO and its alliance in Afghanistan and our support for UN peace operations in the Middle East, South Sudan and Mali. Norway has officially launched its candidacy for a place in the UN Security Council for the period 2021-2022. The government has put forward a new strategy for cooperation with the EU for the period from 2018 to 2021. The dialogue with the EU and the United Kingdom has been intensified to provide the best possible framework for cooperation when the United Kingdom left the Union. The Prime Minister has led the UN propelling group for the Berekraftmåla. It promotes health, education and the sea as the Norwegian priorities. In spring 2018, the 2030 climate strategy was adopted in Stortinget. The targets shall be met with the main emphasis on domestic emission reductions and with the necessary use of the flexibility mechanisms set out in EU legislation. The government negotiates with the EU on the joint fulfilment of emission targets. The government has followed up the ambitions of the long-term defence plan. The defense reported in 2017 that all defence sectors had more strengths available for operational missions than in 2016. The defence has launched investments in new equipment and modern weapons. We have been some about changes in the protection and establishment of Finnmark land defence. The defense has strengthened its crew in the north. The government has continued its efforts to strengthen national security efforts. Proposals for regulations on national security legislation have been being heard. The operating results in the municipal sector were also good in 2017. The number of ROBEK municipalities is now the lowest ever. The government's proposal for a new municipal law to strengthen municipal self-government is agreed by Stortinget. The size has joined the government's plan for further work on changes in the municipal structure. It is still necessary to work for larger and stronger municipalities. In order to prevent extraterrestrialism and to ensure that the most economically possible is self-employed, the government has stepped up efforts and cooperated with municipalities to raise urban areas with social challenges. Transport is still one of the bet areas of government. The activity is high for both expansion and maintenance. The road maintenance run is reduced for the fourth consecutive year. The number of traffic fatalities in 2017 was the lowest since 1947. The structural changes in the near-police reform have been completed. These changes have been necessary to provide the basis for better police services and a police force equipped to meet today’s and tomorrow’s crime challenges, including: in the digital space. The size of the population has joined the government’s proposal to introduce an obligation for the school to provide intensive 1–4 pupils. reading, writing or billing steps. The government has agreed on a new supply structure for professional subjects and that all subjects in the basic school and the common subjects in the secondary school should be renewed. The government has introduced a national standard of manning and strengthened the pedagogical norms in kindergarten. The government has also introduced a standard of learning density in the base ball, in line with the Stortinget’s decision. The government follows the long-term plan for research and higher education. In total, the rewards for R & D this year correspond to over 1 pst. GDP expected. compulsory Norwegian training has been introduced in the reception of asylum; Efforts to combat negative social control and forced marriages have been stepped up. Among other things, the system of minority advisors has been strengthened. The new copyright went into effect on 1 July, and the government has sent a proposal for a new Media Liability Act on a hearing. The government has started work on the Life Reform all its life. The reform will create a more age-friendly society. About two million patients received health care in somatic hospitals in 2017. That's 1.2 pst. more than one year earlier. The average waiting time in the specialist clinic was 57 days in 2017 – a decrease of three days from the previous year. The government has increased the funding for all day care places, so in 2018 it is possible for municipalities to search for 2 500 places. The government is strengthening its efforts to combat violence and child abuse. A national strategy for parental support was put forward in June 2018. Action against child poverty also has a high priority. From 1 July of this year, the mother and father quota in the parental pension scheme was extended to 15 weeks. The government and Storting have made changes to the Child Protection Act to strengthen the legal certainty of children and parents in child protection matters. In October 2017, the government presented a competence strategy for municipal child protection. The government concluded an agricultural agreement with both organizations in May. After the summer drought, an additional agreement of 525 million was negotiated in August. kr for compensation for crop damage for the farmers who have happened. The government has strengthened the competitiveness of forest and wood industries. The cut-off figures in 2017 were among the highest since the registrations started in the 1920s. The current external balance remained at 182 billion. SEK in 2017, up to 64 billion. kr from 2016. In 2017, the value creation in the petroleum sector amounted to 16 pst. of Norway's GDP, and the country's net cash flow from oil business was 168 billion. kr. Long-term and sound management of the State pension fund facilitates the benefit of both current and future generations of revenue from petroleum resources. In April, the government presented the annual report on the State pension fund. The treatment of this message shows that there is a wide political deal about managing our shared savings. It facilitates the maintenance of the chosen strategy, including periods of market turmoil. The average salary growth from 2016 to 2017 was 2.3 pst. Wages and salaries are higher than consumption prices, and the real wage growth after tax was 0.9 pst. Consumer prices were 2.2 pst. higher in the period January to June of the year than at the same time last year. The measures taken in the tax reform on broad tax bases and lower tax rates have been followed up. Follow-up work in the OECD and the G20 has been undertaken to prevent undermining of tax bases and the transfer of surplus. Sickness absence has been relatively stable since 2012. One of the objectives of the IA agreement is to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. from 2001. The absence is now about 12 pst. lower than in the second quarter of 2001. There are considerable differences in trends and the level of absenteeism between sexes, age groups, counties and sectors. The last year of the current IA agreement is 2018. The government, together with the social partners, has started to assess the content and arrangements of any new IA agreement. The population in Norway continued to grow in 2017, but at a lower rate than in the years before. Net immigration went down clearly last year, but still at a high level. In 2017, the population increased by about 37 000 people. After several years of high growth, housing prices went down over the last year. Since the turn of the year, prices have increased again, and now they are roughly back at the top level from early 2017. The rise has been strongest in Oslo, while developments have been more moderate in other cities. Household liabilities have increased faster than incomes. On average, Norwegian households have a debt that is more than twice their disposable income. The current debt growth is a sign of a build-up of financial imbalances. The government decided in June to continue its mortgage lending policy. It shall apply until December 2019. The main objective of the regulation is to contribute to a more resilient development of the housing loan market. International order, as he has been developed since 1945, has lit Norway well, but is under pressure. At the same time, international cooperation is more important than ever. More and more challenges remain too complex to be solved by one country alone. A good relationship with the United States is of long-term national interest, and the government has worked to strengthen close bilateral cooperation. The United States continues to be our most important ally. In the dialogue with the United States, the government has clearly expressed Norwegian positions. The government wants a good neighbourly relationship with Russia and has continued a broad bilateral cooperation in fisheries, the environment and nuclear security. This cooperation works well, despite the required international climate of cooperation between Russia and Western countries. The Government has worked to ensure that the Arctic remains a region of stability and cooperation in which international law is respected. The government has been working to promote international cooperation in global arenas such as the UN and in the contacts we have had with countries and organisations in Africa, Latin America and Asia. The government has been working to maintain regular multilateral trade policy cooperation in the WTO. The EEA Agreement is the foundation of Norway’s cooperation with the EU. The agreement guarantees free movement of persons, goods, services and capital and gives Norwegian companies access to a market of over 500 million people. EEA funds are an important European policy tool, through which Norway contributes to social and economic cohesion in the EU. The funds are also important for the rule of law and civil society in several European countries. The UN negotiations on a global platform for migration have been concluded. Norway took an active part in ensuring better management of global migration challenges. Norway’s humanitarian budget has increased by over 50 pst. since the start of the previous ageing period. The government has recently launched a new strategy for Norway's humanitarian policy and action. The government has been a driver for the enforcement of humanitarian law. The government has been instrumental in resolving international conflicts through active peace diplomacy. We've been working to ensure that women participate in equality with men in all efforts for peace and security. Minorities, not least religious ones, are among the most vulnerable groups in war and conflict. In the last year, the government has increased its support for the work of peace of mind and life and religious minorities. This year, the World Declaration on Human Rights is 70 years old. Norway has worked actively for human rights, especially in the areas of women's rights, freedom of expression, freedom of belief and life and the protection of civil society. Under Norwegian leadership, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on the protection of human rights defenders in December 2017. The government has continued to implement the strategy for freedom of expression and independent media in foreign and development policy. Norway is still actively involved in the global fight against the death penalty. The government has increased its support for sexual and reproductive health internationally and for the fight against sexualised conflict. Norway has an active role to play in preventing sexual harassment in aid and development organisations in the light of the Metoo campaign. The government continues the leadership role of Norway internationally for global health and for education in developing countries. Norway has supported the UN Secretary-General’s reform initiative to make the organisation more efficient and better deliver results at country level. Norway is also working to strengthen the role of the United Nations and its capacity to prevent conflicts. The government has continued to work, nationally and internationally, to improve the capacity to deal with crises. Norway has had a strong impact on its interests in the work of NATO's adapted command structure, with a stronger emphasis on the maritime arrangement of the alliance. The government has continued active military contributions internationally. The contribution to NATO's operation in Afghanistan has been strengthened, the Norwegian efforts in the coalition against ISIL have been continued and supported in addition to the UN peace operations, NATO's strengthened presence in Eastern Europe and NATO's preparedness forces. The government has further developed its cooperation with close allies, including bilateral cooperation with the United States on joint exercises and training in Norway. The government has also contributed to further development of cooperation in the Nordic region, among others. through the Norwegian Presidency of NORDEFCO in 2018. The Government has entered into an agreement to participate in the British-led rapid reaction force Joint Expeditionary Force, JEF, which, if necessary, can contribute rapidly to multi-national crisis management. This will help increase security in our neighbourhoods. The Government decided in April 2018 to transfer the operational execution of national draft alert to Coast Guard. Preparedness is maintained at the same time as the ability to exercise authority and control resources at sea is strengthened. In November 2017, the first three Norwegian F-35 fighter flies landed on Norwegian soil. Norway has now taken 16 of the new fighter planes together. It is agreed that Norway shall acquire three heliports and ice-reinforced seagoing coastguard vessels. The vessels shall be built at a Norwegian shipyard in order to ensure national preparedness and security of supply. Strategic defence material cooperation with Germany has been further strengthened by a cooperation agreement on the further development of the Norwegian Maritime Target missile NSM. The Norwegian defence industry has played an important role in this cooperation, in line with the government's defence industry strategy. The education reform in Defence is now being implemented. The reform shall provide the basis for a timely, qualitatively good and cost-effective education and training system. The government has reduced a selection of measures to improve employment in the Norwegian economy. The selection shall include: assess possible measures to increase professional participation in deferred groups. The government is working for a full-time culture in the world of work and a flexible working life with a secure framework. On 4 June, the European Parliament adopted amendments to the Working Environment Act on permanent and temporary recruitment and hiring of temporary staff, as well as on part-time appointment to a post. The government-emergent alert selection has delivered its report. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget has also adopted the necessary adaptations to today’s public service pension schemes for a new age pension from the population. In line with the agreement on 3 March, there has been a better pay-off to work after 67 years, and one has the assurance that everyone who is on fire will receive a public service pension. The Government has provided a major communication on the health, environment and safety of the petroleum industry. The message shows that the HMS regime is basically working well, while still working well together with knowledge development and strong and transparent supervision is a commitment to good development in the future. The ambition of the government that Norwegian petroleum industry should be world-leading on health, environment and safety is firm. The EU annual index of digitisation, the DESI index, shows Norway to be the number five in Europe in digitisation, after Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands. The use of public digital services is increasing dramatically. The government has started work on a public sector digitisation strategy to strengthen efforts, cooperation and coordination. The work of making services in the public sector link better is a priority task for the government. The government, together with the local government sector, has launched a low-threshold offer for citizens without basic digital competence. The State Purchasing Centre has implemented the first joint procurement agreements for the State. The four joint agreements are estimated to provide the country with an annual savings of approximately 200 million. kr. In 2018, the Construction Quality Directorate, DiBK, established Fellestenester BYGG, a service platform that provides the basis for a fully-digital construction axis process. Good digital solutions for municipalities and construction industries contribute to the simplification, speed and care of the application process for those to build. The home bank continues to digitise its financial systems. Those who apply for housing support, bonuses and loans get better services. At the same time, the municipalities and the House Bank spend less time in proceedings, and the systems become more secure. In order to prevent future climate change for society, the government has adopted state planning guidelines for climate change and adaptation. The new earth observatory in New Ålesund opens June 6th this year. It shall provide decisive knowledge of the environmental challenges in the world and contribute to new navigation technologies. The Observatory is part of a worldwide network and is involved in confirming Norway’s position and presence in the Nordic region. In regional and district policy, the government places emphasis on a business that is able to take care of and create new viable jobs. This will contribute to the growth of regions throughout the country. A good district policy is also about decentralising power and authority and strengthening links between businesses and public institutions in cities and districts. The value of the state's direct ownership of Oslo Børs was 716 billion. kr at the end of 2017. The state's share of the book value of non-listed companies in which the state has commercial objectives with ownership was 128 billion. kr. For the 2017 accounting year, the state receives about 38 billion. kr in dividends from the direct State-owned companies. The cod stock in the Barents Sea is still at a high level. Long-term cooperation between the coastal states of Norway and Russia and good climatic conditions are behind the fact that this is the largest cod population in the world. Other stocks are also well managed, and fish quotas are generally high. The fight against fishing crime and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a high priority of the government, including in an international context. The United Kingdom is a significant fishing nation in the North East Atlantic, and a new cooperation on fisheries management is becoming very central to our work on brexit. Norway has established a good dialogue with both the EU and the United Kingdom on cases. Last year the government introduced a new capacity adjustment system in Norwegian salmon and aure farming. The system facilitates the provision to farmers of sustainable growth that ensures environmental protection. During 2018, the government has allocated growth where there is environmental defence. It is allocated about 3 pst. growth in the industry, for a total remuneration of 3,900 million. kr. In order to help solve the communication challenges in the Nordic countries, the government has proposed to provide equity guarantees to Space Norway AS under certain conditions. The purpose is to realize a two-satellite project to provide broadband communications throughout the Arctic, if it is commercially viable. The proposal was adopted by Stortinget on 4 June 2018. The government has created Norwegian nuclear decommissioning, NND. The NND shall be a national body for cleaning up following the nuclear action of Norway and the safe management of nuclear waste. The government has set up a new investment company to trigger profitable investments in support of reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Investments shall be directed mainly at enterprises with new technologies in transition from technological development to commercialisation. It is a warning that the company will change its name from Renewable AS to Nysnø Climate Investment AS. In 2018, a new temporary ship financing scheme was created and managed by Export Credit Norway and the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, GIEK. The aim of the scheme is to contribute to increased activity for shipyards in Norway, by facilitating the provision of financing by reiters under market conditions. Bilateral trade agreements provide Norwegian goods and services with access to important markets in the rest of the world, thus contributing to the value creation of Norway. The government is now negotiating new appointments with others. Indonesia, China and countries of South America, Mercosur. An expert selection shall review how the public uses the welfare services market and, inter alia: the identification of some private providers of welfare services has a service that can be characterised as unreasonably high. Norway has agreed to participate as the main sponsor of an initiative by the United Nations Business Administration, the UN Global Compact, on the sustainable development of the marine economy, the Business Action Platform for the Oceans. In February 2018, the government presented a new data centre strategy. The strategy presents the government’s policy and action in the central area to help make Norway a more attractive data centre. In the spring of 2017, the government set down a public selection to assess what access to capital business had. The Capital Access Selection delivered its clearance in March of this year. The government has established Process21, a process industry strategy forum to provide advice and recommendations on reduced emissions and sustainable growth in the Norwegian process industry. The government has also set up Digital21 to look at how to strengthen the ability and ability of business to develop and use both new technologies and knowledge, in line with the increasing digitisation. The total production from Norwegian pedestal in 2017 was approximately 4 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. For the fourth consecutive year, total production is increasing. Production is likely to continue to grow towards 2023. Norway covers about 25 pst. of the EU’s gas consumption and inputs to the transition to a renewable low-emission society in Europe. As of 1 September there are 83 fields in production, and the further 18 fields are under construction. Changeover opportunities in the industry have ensured profitability and have contributed to the activity on the Norwegian base now taking place. Investments appear to have reached a floor in 2017 at a level of 151 billion. kr and are expected to increase in 2018. In order to maintain the level of investment beyond 2020, new findings need to be made. Oil and gas industries have been a source of economic activity in Norway for many decades. It will continue to play an important role in the Norwegian economy for many years to come and make a significant contribution to the future financing of the Norwegian welfare community. The country’s total petroleum income was 168 billion. kr in 2017 and was estimated in the revised national budget at 224 bn. kr this year, corresponding to about 17 pst. of the total income of the country. Measured according to turnover, the largest industry in Norway for oil and gas production is the supply industry. The industry creates jobs and local economic development in all countries. Based on a solid home market, about 35 pst. the turnover of the supplier industry from international markets. The upswing we see now, the incentive for increased employment and viable local communities along the whole coast. The knowledge and competence of this capital intensive industry is transferred to other industries through learning processes, transfer of competences and innovation. This interaction contributed to income generation and a broader, more robust and knowledgeable industrial structure throughout the country. On behalf of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Norwegian Research Council has announced a research centre for the low-emission technology of the petroleum industry. The aim is to contribute to the development of low-emission or zero-emission technologies that enable future deployment and operation with the lowest possible emissions of greenhouse gases. 2017 was the year with the highest power consumption that has been measured in Norway, with 132,9 TWh. Total power generation was 148,2 TWh, which is at the level of the highest measured power generation from 2016. 98 pst. the output was from the water and wind power. Net exports of power to the rest of the world were 15.3 TWh. Norwegian electricity supply, together with electricity supply in Iceland, has the highest renewable share and the lowest emissions in Europe. A warm and dry spring and summer have given lower filling levels than normal in Norwegian hydropower storage. The availability of interconnection capacity with other countries’ power systems will help mitigate the consequences of a long-term drought. During 2017, 1.6 TWh new power generation was in operation. As of 1 June 2018, 9.2 TWh was the new renewable power generation under development, mainly wind power. The Government aims to open one to two areas of renewable energy production at sea. Floating wind demonstration project can search for Enova support. The strategy for liquid wind power put forward in the autumn of 2017 is aimed at addressing the industrial potential of the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian environment of competence in the development of offshore wind power. For 2018, it is worth 354 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in connection with the implementation of the budget of the Norwegian Waterways and Energy Directorate. The permissions of this work have increased in the last few years. In March 2018, it was agreed that the third energy market package would be included in the EEA Agreement, in the light of previous decisions of the EEA Committee. The government has continued its work with full scale CO2 handling. The size has joined the government’s proposal to initiate the pre-projecting of CO2 capture and storage. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has shed light on the area available for the application for rights of use for storage of CO2 on the Norwegian continental shelf. Early efforts are crucial to provide all children and young people with training that equips them for the future. In order to strengthen early efforts, the government has introduced both clearer language requirements for supervisors and pedagogical leaders in kindergarten and a duty of cooperation in the transition between kindergarten, school and SFO. The size has agreed to introduce an obligation for the school to cooperate with relevant municipal services on the assessment and follow-up of children and young people with health, personal, social or emotional problems. Furthermore, the Stortinget has joined the government’s proposal to introduce an obligation for the school to provide intensive training for 1–4 elephants. reading, writing or billing steps. All primary and continuing training subjects shall be renewed. Apprenticeship plans are scheduled to be ready for use from 2020 onwards. The government has defined the core elements of the subject – the most important student should learn in each subject. The other subjects are scheduled to be renewed before 2021. The Government has decided to design professionally-specific elements of the curricula in Norwegian and English in the vocational education and training programmes. This comes in addition to professionally-specific parts of the curricula in mathematics and natural sciences. The government has identified changes in the supply structure of vocational education and training programmes. They shall ensure that the different subjects are more in line with the needs of the business community. A new structure for continuing vocational training is being introduced in the autumn of 2020. The government has proposed and agreed to a ban on the use of clothing that covers face, kindergarten and educational situations in primary, public and professional schools, the introduction system and higher education in whole or in part. The government has strengthened the Competence plus scheme by nearly 70 million. kr from 2014 to 2018. The scheme provides workers with training in basic skills at work. The world of work is becoming an increasingly important learning venue, and in 2017 there was a record-breaking search for funds. It was distributed $170 million. kr through the scheme. In the follow-up to the National Educational Strategy, Teacher Training 2025, cooperation between all actors in the school and teacher education sector is a high priority. Representatives of all actors involved in teacher training have been gathered to establish a new national forum for teacher training and professional development. The government has made progress and Stortinget has passed a new law on vocational schools. A number of legislative changes shall clarify that vocational education is a higher vocational education. With effect from 2018, a new in-service training premium scheme has been introduced. The government will establish new rules for private high schools and colleges with effect from 1 January 2018. The new rules will facilitate effective public support control and the use of students’ own payments in line with the legislation. In recent years, there have been many mergers in the state sector in the university and higher education sectors, and there are now 21 state institutions. A consolidation has also been launched among the private spheres. University of Oslo and Akershus, HiOA, received university status in January 2018 with the name OsloMet – the major city university. In May, Søraust-Noreg University received the corresponding status and was also at the University of Søraust-Noreg. Norway has with this ten university. The government has reduced a legislative selection to review and assess changes in the legislation of universities, colleges and student relations. The government has stepped up the capacity of higher education in ICT and has facilitated the inclusion of 1500 students in ICT education as a permanent scheme. In 2018, the government continued to invest in student housing with the addition of 2,200 new student rents. It is expected that new construction for medicine and health at the University of Tromsø will be completed in 2018 and the likes rehabilitation of the University Museum in Bergen. There is a start-up promise for new building for life science at the University of Oslo. At the same time, further work is being done on completing several new buildings in the university and higher education sectors, among others. for the veterinary environment at Ås. In 2018, a total pledge of 50 million has been made. kr for the planning of campus NTNU. In the light of the overarching digitalisation strategy for the university and higher education sectors for the period 2017 to 2021, universities have been asked to develop their own mandatory objectives and measures for digitisation of education and research. The Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research, Unit, was established on 1 January 2018 and has the national responsibility for implementing and further developing the digitalisation strategy. The number from March 2018 shows that Norway has received over 2 pst for the first time. of the funds announced in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020. In December 2017, the Government adopted a national strategy for the availability and sharing of research data. The strategy determines that research data should be as open as possible and as closed as necessary. The Autumn 2017 government sets out guidelines and measures for open access to scientific articles. The government's objective is that all Norwegian scientific articles funded by public funds should be open by 2024. The government presented a new strategy for research and higher education at Svalbard in May 2018. Governments have high expectations of this strategy and want research to make a significant contribution to international knowledge development and to address key societal and global challenges. In 2017 busette 282 municipalities nearer 11 100 refugees. Of these, about 760 were single minors. For 2018, the national selection of refugees has focused on the level of employment, the results of the introduction programme and the municipality size in the call criteria for the municipalities. Consideration shall also be given to local conditions, such as the need for labour in the region and the history of construction. In addition, each municipality should be encouraged to provide a minimum of 10 people. In 2017, more than 44 000 people participated in training in Norwegian and social sciences, and about 29 000 people participated in the introduction programme. The number of participants is still high in 2018. Evaluation of the introduction system has been carried out and they should form the basis for government's work on an integration promise. The government has ensured that members of families with children and single minors with limited residence permits, pending documented identity, will be resident and entitled to introduction programmes and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. The government has launched a project for a comprehensive rehabilitation of the National Theatre in Oslo. The National Library has digitised the Norwegian literature archive and completed the online bookhylla.no. This means that 270,000 Norwegian books written before the year 2000 can now be read for free, and that some 20,000 books that are no longer copyrighted are made available. The government is implementing a comprehensive building solution for the Sámi National Theatre Beaivváš and the Sámi Secondary School in Kautokeino. The new regulation on the delivery of publicly available documents came into force on 1 July. The government has downgraded a public selection with task to go through the archive laws. The distribution shall take place in March 2019. The resolution of the nationwide FM signals was completed in December 2017, and nationwide broadcasters are now broadcasting on DAB. The government attaches great importance to strengthening the international possibilities of Norwegian cultural life, which has contributed to the success of Norwegian authors and artists abroad in particular. The temporary internal border control of ferries with traffic towards Sweden, Denmark and Germany has continued until 11 November 2018. The need for further forwarding of internal border controls is assessed in the light of the security situation. The government's proposals for a new arms law and a new border law are adopted by the Stortinget. New weapons laws have introduced new security measures, while ensuring the good hunting and shooting culture in Norway. The majority have also accepted the government's proposal for changes in police laws, so that there can now be time-limited armaments by vulnerable objects. Norway is taking an active part in finding pan-European solutions for the management of refugees and migration. The first of the 16 new rescue helicopters will be delivered between 2017 and 2018. The helicopter shall be operated in the first half of 2019 through a phase-in programme in the Defence before the first helicopter is put into operation. The plan is that all new rescue helicopters should be in operation during the first six months of 2021. The state’s children’s home has been strengthened, and the total number of children’s homes is 240 million. kr in 2018. A subsidiary of the Statens Kinderhus Tromsø was opened in Kirkenes in March 2018. Ei corresponding subdivision of the Statens Kinderhus Bergen will be established in Förde during the fall of 2018. The government has established support centres for crime offences in all twelve police districts of the country. The office is located with the police, using a model from the Support Centre for Injury in Criminal Matters in Trondheim. The Centre is established in close cooperation with municipalities to provide a close connection to municipal services. Kill performed by current or previous parties is between 20 and 30 pst. by the killing in Norway. A selection to go through party killings was cut down in the autumn of 2018. At the suggestion of the government, the state budget for 2018 has raised 30 million. For an increased police effort in the south of Oslo. The effort shall contribute to the prevention of crime, with particular emphasis on young people at risk and to the prevention of recruitment into a criminal environment. Governments have increased the capacity of criminal agencies. In 2017 and 2018, the capacity for the implementation of penalties with electronic control has been increased by around 150 places. 310 new prison sites in Agder are under construction. The reconciliation queue is as good as liquid. The government is responding to the need for restructuring in the criminal justice system. Crime services must be used as efficiently as possible, and it is planned for the closure of premises that are no longer needed. The government is committed to digitising and modernising the courts. A total of 235 million is allowed. kr to ICT in courts since 2014. The government has also reduced a selection to look at how courts should be organised in order to be best equipped to meet expectations of efficiency, quality and independence. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget has adopted a new personal data law, which implements the new EU legislation in this area. Promises include: increase rights and require the enterprises to work systematically to ensure privacy. The government has put forward proposals for a new inheritance law that is adapted to today's family patterns and social developments. In line with government proposals, Stortinget has agreed that from 2018 all municipalities should have dedicated themselves to doctors, nurses, midwives, health sisters and physiotherapists. From 2020, this will be expanded to include psychologists and ergot therapists. From 1 January this year, the health and care laws, the specialist health services laws and the dental services law clarified the responsibilities of health and care services at system level in terms of prevention, detection and deterrence of selected and sexual abuse. Inhabitants can now log into the national health portal healthnorge.no and register as organ donors in the core journal. There are developed transparency solutions in national health registers, as part of ensuring the rights and privacy of data subjects. Inhabitants include: have been given access to information on own birth in the Medical Birth Register and own information in the Municipal Patient and User Register. The government will implement a drug reform in which social responses to the use and possession of illicit drugs for own consumption are shifted from the justice sector to the health sector. A public selection has been set to work out a model for implementing the reform. From 1 July this year, the healthcare service was given an obligation to offer patients, users and dependants a meeting following very serious events. Such meetings contribute to greater openness and provide patients, users and relatives with the opportunity to get answers to questions. The work of setting up the State Investigation Commission on Health and Care Services is well under way. The government will present its own escalation plan for children and the mental health of young people. The contingency plan shall include health promotion, disease prevention and curative initiatives. Children and young people themselves are the most important predispensors for the work. For several years, the government has been investing in the health and school health services, including the midwifery service. The service is significantly strengthened from 2014 to 2018, and in 2018 there is a total of 1.16 billion. kr through the municipality chamber and in ear-marked addition. In the period from 2013 to 2017, the number of annual works in the service increased by 975 annual works. The government's historical investment in the family protection service has resulted. Several people get help with family protection. The wait time has been reduced and the work capacity against selected and high conflict has increased. However, it is important to ensure a further development of the service so that several families can get the help they need. The government has therefore reduced a public selection to go through the organisation, task solving, resource usage and quality of the family protection service. National support for child poverty is strengthened, from about 100 million. SEK in 2014 to approximately 270 million. kr in 2018. The scheme suggests that children from socially and economically disadvantaged families can participate in holiday and leisure activities. The Government’s proposal to introduce an absolute 18-year limit for marriage in Norway is agreed by the Stortinget and took effect on 1 July 2018. The government's proposal to introduce a home to ask for a DNA test before fatherhood is declared for children born abroad, where there is doubt about identity, is endorsed by the Stortinget. On the basis of the new Debt Information Act, in June 2018 the government granted two companies the right to provide debt information to lenders. This helps to counteract the fact that loans are given to people who don't have the money for it. New package travel permit entered into force on 1 July 2018. With new package travel permits, the requirements for the organiser will increase and several travel arrangements will be covered by the legislation. This ensures multiple users against the organiser's bankruptcy. Agriculture is important for food production, housing, cultural landscapes and value creation. The agricultural agreement strengthens Norwegian food production and will contribute to active agriculture throughout the country. The contracting parties have prioritised production with market opportunities, grain production in good cereals, grazing and grass production in the districts. In addition, there is a focus on climate and environmental measures and on welfare schemes for agriculture. Norway and the EU signed an agreement in 2017 to increase trade in agricultural products. The agreement is now approved both in Norway and in the EU and will be implemented with effect from 1 October 2018. The agreement provides for the establishment of both new and extended tariff quotas for goods from the EU. The government has entered into a reindeer management agreement with the Norwegian Reinbrytssamers Landsförbund. The agreement provides a basis for a positive development in reindeer management, both economically and ecologically. The government has also exempted the reindustry from the single fee and the deduction of VAT for snowmobiles and ATVs for use in the operation. In June 2018, the government received the distribution from the state public opinion committee with proposals for new mountain law. The output has been sent on the listener. The number of municipalities shows that the re-disposal of cultivated land for other purposes was reduced by 36 pst. from 2016 to 2017. In particular, disposal for transport purposes has decreased. The government will further develop infrastructure and transport solutions based on new and modern technology. In July, the government set up an expert selection to identify and analyse the implications of new technologies for future transport infrastructure. Several road installations are open to traffic. The opening of E18 Bombestad-Sky indicates that there is now a four-field motorway through Vestfold. The government will continue its work on improving the cost management of large-scale transport projects. Most projects now meet relatively well in the implementation phase, but many projects have significant cost increases in early stages. This includes: create change logs and management targets in major road and rail projects, and this will be followed up in the further planning of the projects. Work on road safety is a priority. In 2017, 106 people died in road traffic in Norway. This is 29 fewer than in 2016. Measured by the population, the number of deaths was the lowest in Europe. The accident rate for the first five months of this year is at the same level as in 2017. The number of injuries since 2011 has doctors of about the same level. In order to achieve the objective of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 on a maximum of 350 fatalities and severe injuries in 2030, the number of severe injuries has to decrease. New National Road Safety Action Plan 2018–2021 was launched in March 2018. These are the road safety operators’ proposals for the concreteisation and follow-up of the objectives of the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 on fatalities and serious injuries. The plan involves a number of actors and includes 136 actions within the main areas of intervention. Electronic communications networks and services call for critical societal functions and increasing value. At the same time, the threat picture changes, among others. as a result of increased cybertartaric disorders. In order to address identified vulnerabilities and increase security and robustness of services, in 2018, the government launched a pilot project for alternative core networks and the addition of fibre cables abroad. Private actors invest about 10 billion. kr annually in echonets and services. The government facilitates by simplifying legislation. Changes in the rental regulations make it cheaper to build networks that can deliver fast, good services across the country. Agreement has been reached on the release of frequencies in the 700 MHz band in autumn 2019. This facilitates the early launch of 5G mobile broadband. In April 2018, the government presented a strategy for the use of drones in Norway. New offer contract for the operation of regional scheduled flights on Værøy was concluded in 2018 with effect from 1 August 2019. The Government will facilitate a greater degree of competition, including: within the operation of aerodromes. In 2018, Avinor AS awarded a service concession for the operation of Haugesund Airport to a local company that took over operations from 2019. After the suspension of competition, a contract has been concluded for the provision of services on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route for 10 years. This means that the current provision of the route will be continued when the current agreement expires at the end of 2020. The reforms carried out on the road and the railways are being followed up, including: Toll reform. Key actions in the rail reform are more efficient infrastructure deployment, better sector organisation and competitive deployment of passenger train services. The competition for Traffic Package 1 South was brightened in the autumn of 2017, while for Traffic Package 2 North it was bright in the spring of 2018. Oil and marine protection centres shall contribute to the realisation of the government's commitment to a clean marine environment. In spring 2018, Norway extended the forest partnership with Colombia and entered into an agreement with Germany with Ecuador with a payment promise if the country achieves verified emission reductions from the rainforest. The new agreements will contribute to a long-term and holistic effort to preserve the Amazon. In 2018, the new ice-going research vessel “Kronprins Haakon” was delivered from the yard and put into operation. The vessel has an icebreaker class and is one of the most advanced research vessels in the world for operations in the Arctic and Antarctic sea areas. The government is stepping up the fight against environmental crime and in June 2018 adopted a new regulation on trade in endangered species, the CITES regulation. The government is strengthening its efforts to preserve nature. In April 2018, the Dovrefjell – Sunndalsjjella National Park expanded by protecting the former Hierkin shooting field. In addition, the government created a new Mountain Landscape Area. The government created the Lofotodden National Park in the state of Nordland in June 2018. In five years, the government has raised $1,961 million. kr for forest protection. Since 2017, the forest protection licenses have been in play for well over 400 million. kr annually. The government's emphasis is on caring for the good animal health in Norway. Extensive efforts have therefore been made to identify the occurrence of pancreatic disease, CWD. The entire infected wild reindeer strain in North Mountain is drawn out. In July this year, the government presented an action plan on outdoor life. The action plan aims to strengthen the pooling of outdoor and outdoor activities in public health work and provides a range of measures and guidance to support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-02.ana.ud562e594	Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, co-representatives! Today we open it 163rd big thing. The elected representatives of the people are taking a seat again in this Chamber. The solemn opening of the Greatness is a beautiful and symbolic expression of the long lines of our people's rule. It is the embodiment of the frameworks and traditions that are the cornerstone of Norwegian democracy and thus of society. Most clearly, the three state powers are being brought together here today. We also see that our leading administrators of freedom of expression who are always in place in the press department. The opening of the big business is an opportunity to stop and reflect on the work we're in the middle of, the responsibility all of us here in the hall are trusted by the people we represent, and the new tasks ahead of us in the next session. We've laid behind us a year when the storms housed both inside and outside our own house. The state of democracy is a topic that is discussed more often than in a long time, not just here with us, but in large parts of the world. Rarely has there been so much tension associated with so many elections in traditionally solid democratic states. Democracy is being tested both inside and outside the polling stations. The rules of the game are being challenged, and in some places we see that the people are beginning to lose faith in democracy. It's about a lot. Among other things, it's about trust – trust in the system and the institutions, trust in the people who populate the organs of democracy, and trust in us who are gathered here today to start a new year of important work. We are so lucky that we are still elected by people in a country where the trust between citizens and the confidence of citizens in the national Parliament is very high. We also know that Norwegian children and young people are among those who have the greatest confidence in democracy and democratic institutions. It's a pleasure, but it's a commitment. The confidence of the voters we must continue to earn. We can only do that by boosting trust with commitment, against, respect for each other, and humility for the task and trust. During this process, we are also going to mark the 100th anniversary of the general voting rights in our country for the poor. Working for a real opportunity for participation for all social groups is an important task in our own time as well. A year ago there were many new faces here in the hall – many who didn't know what was in front of them. In the course of the year that has passed, they have learned what it is impossible to fully understand without experiencing it for themselves: the many faces of big business. No matter which of the nine games we represent, the everyday life here is marked by hard and serious work to achieve the goals we believe in, and to do the job we have promised the thousands of voters who have voted for us. In the previous big picture, we dealt with 452 things. Record many of them, as many as 208, were representatives' proposals. In Appendix 2,270, the representatives asked the government. The numbers testify to high activity and are entirely in line with what all children learn about the Greatness's function. We decide the laws of our country, we decide how much money the state spends, and how the money is spent, and we control the government. We know that we are going towards busy days even when we now get to work. Your Majesty! When we again meet 169 elected representatives of the populace for responsible work, it is certain of the great tasks ahead of us, and of the responsibilities we have assumed. We gather together in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-02.ana.ud562e619	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
