ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e67	The representative Kjersti Toppe, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, now takes the seat. The representative, Knut Arild Hareide, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e82	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Oluk V. Bollestad, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself on the ideal actors' historical pension costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e87	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. The President would also like to remind the representatives that it is nice to leave the Chamber quietly, so that we can go right to deal with case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e109	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e118	This is the second time we are dealing with package travel this session. Therefore, I will refer to the treatment of Innst. 126 S for 2017-2018 to Prop. 29 S for 2017-2018, for consent to the approval of the Package Travel Directive. The matter we are dealing with today will follow the unanimous decision of Stortingen to introduce the Package Travel Directive. The Committee recognises the need to update the legislation governing package travel, as the way such travel is organised and disseminated, has changed a lot since the legislation in force was established. The bill follows up the Package Travel Directive to remove ambiguities compared to the previous package travel directive. The objective is to increase consumer protection while ensuring the competitiveness of organisers and intermediaries. The directive and the legislative proposal go far beyond the law in force, but among other things: The Consumer Council considers that on some points the Directive will have a detrimental effect on the rights of the traveller compared to the applicable law. The directive is completely harmonised, as it is called. Therefore, in this legislative proposal, Norway has limited opportunities to introduce or maintain rules that differ from the Directive. However, the Committee was in the Innst. 126 S aware that the government would use the possibilities available to ensure that consumer rights are not lost in the implementation of the new Directive in the preparation of the present legislative proposal. The Committee was unanimous in stating that: ‘The government in the preparation of a legislative proposal with proposals for new legislation on package travel and travel guarantees makes use of the possibilities available to ensure that consumer rights are not lost in the implementation of the new Directive. The Committee will refer to the Consumer Council’s said consultation response where it points out that in some areas the Directive will have a restrictive effect on the rights of the traveller compared to the applicable package travel law. In the view of the Consumer Council, it would be unfortunate if consumer protection would have to give way to a directive which does not impose the same consumer protection requirements. The Committee agrees.’.» The Consumer Council points out in its written input to the Committee in dealing with the legislative proposal at three points in the new legislative proposal, where they believe that Norwegian package travellers are given some lower protection than is the case today. These relate to the rules on compensation in the case of delayed air travel, the relationship to transport law, travel guarantee for the transport part of a package journey, so-called seat-only, and optional implementation responsibility for the intermediary. On questions from the Committee, the Council of State has answered how the government has followed up the unanimous comment of the Committee on the use of the action space for the benefit of consumer rights. To briefly mention what SV as a party believes in the matter: we are not satisfied with some of these points and have therefore joined in on two proposals that will strengthen consumers’ rights. I'm dealing with these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e141	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e146	The right and government parties point to the fact that the implementation of the 2015 Package Travel Directive contributes to a higher level of consumer protection than today. The aim is to increase the level of consumer protection in the EEA and eliminate differences in the rules of the countries that prevent cross-border trade. We have noticed that Europe's consumer was in favour of the Ministry's bill in an article in E24 in March this year. The new law imposes greater requirements on the trader’s obligation to provide information, and costs that have not been disclosed in advance are not mandatory for consumers to pay. Furthermore, the responsibilities of the organisers for the proper conduct of the package travel are clarified and written confirmation of offers and acceptances are required for the telephone sale of package travel. We have, of course, also come to the conclusion that consumer supervision fears a lower level of consumer protection in two areas. We do not share this concern and believe that a new law on package travel provides consumers with higher consumer protection overall, compared to today. From the Right, we support the point of the bill that the travel guarantee for the transport part of a package travel is not continued in a new package travel permit. We believe that the proposal, in addition to being well-founded, shows the ability to take on the development of a large-scale travel market. In a travel market where more and more people choose to put their travels together on their own, for example: in the case of scheduled air services, the rules will make the traditional package travel operators worse in direct competition with the traditional carriers. The transport part of a package journey can be compared both as a product and on a purely priced basis to a standard flight ticket. In that case, it makes little sense that such a journey should be subject to a travel guarantee requirement when other passengers on the same aeroplane with only an aeroplane ticket do not have equivalent protection. The question of whether or not the traveller should be protected by the provisions of the Package Travel Act should be determined by what travel product the passenger actually purchases, not by what kind of service the travel companies have traditionally sold to their travellers. In this context, there is also reason to note that Sweden has had a similar rule at home, which is now being lifted in order to ensure simpler and more uniform rules without complementary national specific rules. The other area is that the government proposes not to make use of the Directive’s access to the right of withdrawal on package travel purchased outside of business premises. We also support this proposal and believe it to be well-founded. It is also worth noting that a similar rule has also not been proposed in our neighbouring countries in the implementation of the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e161	As the rapporteur said, there was a unanimous committee that used to be in the inner East. 126 S for 2017-2018, considered that it was important to use the action space that is actually available in the directive we are dealing with today to ensure that Norwegian consumer rights are not impaired in the preparation of new package travel permits. In dealing with the proposition, the hearing bodies have had different approaches to this in some areas. We in the Centre Party have noted the objections that have come from both industry and consumers, and believe that it is important to have as balanced a law as possible, which takes account of both the travel industry and consumers. Where the Directive provides for derogations, specific rules in favour of the consumer should be maintained. It is important that the law has a protection against situations that may arise in advance of the journey, on the journey or at the end of the journey, and that are not self-inflicted. The centre party is pleased that a large majority support the proposal of the Centre Party to introduce a right of withdrawal into the new package travel law. Why is that important? Yes, although the cancellation rule provides the traveller with the opportunity to withdraw from the contract, it will entail a fee for the traveller. The purpose of the right of withdrawal is that the person who has entered into an agreement outside the place of permanent sale does not necessarily have time to think well before the conclusion of the contract and should therefore be able to terminate the contract within a withdrawal period. The sale of out-of-house parcels often targets vulnerable groups of consumers, for example: older people invited to attend various events, and tea fields where the sale of package travel is an underlying theme. Disadvantages during the journey can be sub-communicated in such settings, and people can make impulse purchases that they later regret. In the view of the Centre Party, the right of withdrawal should therefore be incorporated into the new Package Travel Act. The centre party is also pleased that we get by a majority to continue the travel guarantee for the transport part of the package journey, also called seat-only. The current travel guarantee scheme for the transport part of a package travel works well and is in the consumer's favor. Even the Ministry proposed in the consultation note to continue the travel guarantee for the transport section in order not to weaken consumer protection, but unfortunately the Ministry rejected the proposal after the consultation round. So we in the Center Party believe that the system should be continued, and we choose to listen to those who represent consumers here. It is important that consumer rights are not lost as a result of new changes to the Package Travel Act. We share the Consumer Ombudsman's assessments and agree that there must be a protection in the law also for travellers who only buy seats on charter trips – that they are also covered by the travel guarantee if, for example. bankruptcy should occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e178	I am pleased that a joint committee supports the government's proposal for a new package travel law. This is joyous news for all travellers. I would like to add some comments to the proposals promoted by the minority. The Package Travel Directive provides for the right of withdrawal when the package travel is purchased outside regular business premises. This is because a few EU countries have had problems with vulnerable consumers who have entered into package travel agreements at the sales meeting that they have not understood. As far as I am aware, we have not seen any documentation, reports or complaint statistics in any form that suggests that there has been or is a problem in Norway. Even without the right of withdrawal, the traveller may terminate the package travel contract already today by using the cancellation rules for a fee. In any event, where the trader uses methods contrary to the marketing law to sell his package travel, consumer supervision may intervene and impose penalties on traders. That is why I have not opened the right of withdrawal when purchasing package travel outside of regular business premises when the proposal was submitted to Stortinget. The minority of the Committee also proposes that the current travel guarantee scheme for the transport part of the package travel be continued. The guarantee of travel for the transport part of a package journey was justified in its time by the fact that it was unreasonable for the person who could purchase the transport by charter aircraft and not the entire package journey to benefit from the same guarantee as the other passengers travelling by the same aircraft. However, the market has changed, and therefore we believe that the requirement to provide a travel guarantee for the transport part of the package tour represents a competitive disadvantage for the package tour operator, since neither airlines nor foreign package tour operators have to provide a travel guarantee when the passenger only buys an airline ticket. In Norway, we have a generally high level of consumer protection also in the case of package travel. The government believes that the travel guarantee system is working well, and in the implementation of the 2015 Package Travel Directive, Norwegian consumers get overall greater consumer protection than today. The purpose of this Directive is to increase the level of consumer protection in the EEA territory and eliminate differences in the rules of the countries preventing cross-border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e193	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e209	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e218	I should first like to thank the Committee for its good work and cooperation in this matter. The matter concerns an area in which all the lots are involved, and the broad consensus of the Committee in several of the points bears the hallmark of this very fact. The individual disagreements I expect the respective parties to explain themselves, but the proposals for decisions in the vote are therefore largely in agreement. The case contains mainly three parts. The first is about the changes in the mother and father quotas. It is proposed not to change the overall length of the social benefit period but to increase those allowances to 15 weeks for mother and to – a historically high number – 15 weeks for father. It leaves 16 weeks for free distribution, and in this way we guarantee a third of the parental pen. The second part is about increasing support for multiple parents. Here it is proposed to give twin parents four months more with parental leave than they have today. Furthermore, it is proposed that parents who have three or more children in the same birth or adoption be given a double period of benefit. The third part is about ensuring a more flexible arrangement of the cash support. The proposal is that payments can be made at 20, 40, 60, 80 or 100 pst. of full batch. The Committee carried out a hearing in the case on 3 May this year. The recordings that appeared at the hearing showed a broad consensus on the main points of the case, namely the third division of the parental killers. There was also broad support for the increased support for multiple parents, while some questions were asked about the flexibility of the cash support, which we expect will be debated here today. The rapporteur has also noticed that there have been several written observations and comments on the matter, and they have all been examined and read conscientiously. In this case, there has been an important point that a more equal parental leave is an important starting point for dealing with the structural equality challenges we have. At the same time, the device – i.e. the third – is such that it also takes care of the fact that families are different. The device also ensures that children are given a more equal right to be together with both parents. The equality struggle is a tough fight. It's about attitudes and big structural changes that it turns out are hard to turn around overnight. We must continue to use new instruments, and that is why I am pleased that this matter is being debated here today. For the left, just one-third of the parental killers have been an important matter, and it was one of the most important breakthroughs for us in the government cooperation. The left considers the third division to be a modern and correct solution to several challenges. We know that many fathers take out just as much leave as they claim, neither more nor less. Changes in the parental quota usually lead to a change in the duration of father's parental leave. We saw that a clear example of when the father rate was reduced from 14 to 10 weeks ago, and the same trend has also been seen in, for example, four years ago. Denmark. Increases in quotas especially give fathers a better chance of being at home with their children. That's why the third is an important step in ensuring real equality between mother and father. Both parents should have equal opportunities to be good caregivers for their children from the start. This is how ties and relationships are built, but also attitudes. Children who grow up with good and equal role models at home are also more likely to expect equality in other arenas. An expectation of equal parents is also important to counteract, among other things, the lack of equality between parents. differences in wages and salaries in the labour market. We know that the longer a person is out of work, the more he or she will depend on when it comes to wage and career development. Now it is said that both mother and father take a significant part of the leave, and so there will be no such difference in the absence of work. It may have an effect on what is usually invisible gender discrimination, when it becomes equally risky – if you can call it – to hire men as women of childbearing age. When the absence of work because of birth is almost the same for women and men, it should also mean reduced pay differentials in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e241	Today, when we decide to introduce a third of the parental leave scheme, it is a victory for equality. That means that more fathers take out more leave, that children get more contact with both their parents, and that we are moving forward towards an even more equal society. A poor parental leave is a good family policy, gender equality policy and employment policy. In 1993, the Workers' Party introduced a four-week federal quota, and since then we have expanded it step by step up to 14 weeks. Every time we have had an impact on the increase in the spring quota, the Right Party and the Advance Party have voted against it. When the blue-blue government came to power in 2013, it didn't even go one year until the spring quota was reduced from 14 to 10 weeks. Last fall, the Stortinget got the course fixed when we got a new majority for 14 weeks' father's quota, also at the time against the Right and the vote of the Advance Party, but with full support from among others. The leader of the NHO, who believes that the parental leave scheme is the single instrument with the greatest impact on equal opportunities in life. So the right-hand parts have been on the wrong side of the path in the equality struggle when it comes to parental leave, at each and every crossroads. It's a fact. Now I am pleased that we seem to be landing a decision that will stand for a long time to come. On that occasion, I would like to thank all those who have disagreed with the Council of State of Hofstad Helleland over time, and who have helped us to get some steps in the right direction for equality in our society. To the proposal on flexible cash support – and here the consensus ends: like the NHO and the LO, we believe that this is a part-time package that will in no way help to get more women into the entire permanent jobs, but rather help to slow down and, in the worst case, reverse the positive developments we have seen in recent years. The Perspective Communication says that we need more warm hands and wise heads up to 2060, and then we need to facilitate and pursue a policy that helps to make the most of the working life. In the hearing, the NHO presented various examples of a differentiated cash support for those with both low, average and high income. Their calculations show that the new proposal provides them with lower incomes with a higher compensation for the loss of income that results in job breaks. This means giving more incentives to apply the new scheme to those who are low-paid than those who are high-paid. It helps to create an even greater distinction in society, between those inside, and those outside of work. It is also apparent from the proposal that an extension of the scheme would amount to 79 million. kr in increased costs per year. We believe that this money in the Workers' Party could have been much better spent through other measures to strengthen children's growing-up conditions and the everyday lives of families. I record that a central person in the Progress Party and the head of the Education and Research Committee at Stortinget, representative Roy Steffensen, says to NTB that he wants to remove the cash support, and that we need to look at what is good action. I then expect that it is unproblematic for the Progress Party to be involved in the proposal we are promoting today, namely that we ask the government to evaluate within two years how the proposed changes in the withdrawal of cash support affect professional participation and equal opportunities in working life. I refer to the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e268	The representative Kristian Torve has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e273	Today we are dealing with the extension of the mother's quota and the father's quota for parental pennies from 10 to 15 weeks. This will mean that mother and father are to be reserved 15 weeks each and that a historically long spring quota is introduced. It shall contribute to ensuring the safe association of children with both parents in their first year of life. At the same time, it is an important step to ensure real equality between mother and father as caregivers. Increased father's allowance will be good for the child, as father gives a more real opportunity to take out five weeks than what you have today. It's possible to think about new thoughts and go back on things you've thought about before, because in 2017, there was a Nav number that showed that changes in the spring ratio usually lead to a change in the length of father's parental leave. Seven out of ten fathers always take out the number of weeks of leave given by the spring quota. Experience from both Norway and Denmark shows that fathers take less leave when the quota is cut, as we did in 2014. So we're now going to reverse this. It is not proposed to change the total length of the parental pension benefit period but to give mother and father five weeks each with their respective allowances. It is important for children to have a good relationship with both parents when they are young. All families are different, and the increase in mother's and father's quota still means that each family has 16 weeks of the benefit period for free distribution. In today’s society, there is a diversity of family constellations. A parental leave where it is stated that both parents take a significant part of the benefit period, equates the parent – whether it is owned by father or mother, two fathers or two mothers. A three-part parental leave gives a fairer starting point, no matter what the family looks like. Today, we propose to give twin parents four months more with parental leave than they have today, and it is also proposed to give parents who have multiple births – three children or more in the same birth, or through adoption – a double period of benefit. A study by the Swedish Institute of Public Health from 2014 shows that multiple mothers and fathers are more likely to develop depression after their birth, due to stress and high workload, and it concluded that this study – not very surprising – also included. So multiple parents will get better conditions after this law is passed. The current cash support scheme works so that parents with children between 13 and 23 months of age who do not go to kindergarten with a public operating grant can be paid full or half the rate, and that is NOK 7 500 per month. This proposition proposes a more flexible solution in which the cash support can be paid in 20, 40, 60, 80 or 100 pst. of full batch. We believe it is important to give families the possibility of a more flexible start to kindergarten, and thus that families also have a greater degree of freedom of choice to adapt the arrangements as it is best for them, and not what others think is best for them. The right considers that cash support contributes to freedom of choice, and that the individual family can determine what is best for the child according to the child’s overall needs and needs. Each child has his/her own peculiarity, and not all children fit to have a full nursery place. There might be a lot of different reasons for that. This is a system that the Right will still fight for, and we believe that a more flexible solution will give families further opportunity to choose what is best for them. Norway has generous schemes for young children’s parents. We think they should be flexible and keep the child in focus. Then we hear here that it is argued that the NHO means both the one and the other. Then I have to say that the Right has no problem in disagreeing with what the NHO had to think at any time, and we believe that the Workers' Party can also disagree with what the LO at any time thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e290	It belongs to the units of rarest people that I use this speaker to speak partly against the Jeleia declaration, but right now I'm going to make a small exception, most to explain that in this case the Progress Party will vote for something we really are against. Politics is certainly not always easy. So the progress party is going to vote for a third of the parental leave. Let me stress that the Advance Party believes in freedom for the individual. And we believe in freedom for families. We believe that it is not a matter for the public to regulate how families should spend their time, or to influence what choices they should make in life. So I firmly believe that it's the one who has the shoe on, who knows where it might press. The party of progress has joined the government with two other parties. Everyone here in the hall knows that when you're part of a coalition, you have to both give and deal with things in a continuous process. This case is an example of that. In our big business group, there is a solid upturn in our government participation. Therefore, there is also an understanding that we need to vote in individual cases like this with our government partners. We understand that in other parties, it seems more important to drive a gender quota in order to achieve goals other than family choice. We understand that other parties set higher values than that people should be able to control their own lives in line with their own choices, their own values and what they think is best. I hope, however, that common sense can prevail. We know that today's decision will not be suitable for all families. Therefore, there should be a low threshold in order to qualify for exemptions from the third-party rule. Hopefully, the Ministry and the parties who are the perpetrators of the case understand that individual families can be affected if the legislation is interpreted in a square way. Luckily, the government statement contains the most good policy. It makes it easier for most people to live their lives in a good way. We lower taxes, we remove unnecessary laws and regulations, and we build the country. During the last great period, the Party of Advancement and the Right showed that we could deliver very good results in government, with support in this Chamber from the Left and Christian People's Party. During this great period, we, together with the Right and the Left, show that together in government we continue to deliver good policies for the country and for most people. There's something called not counting the lost battles on the winner's day. It might be a fitting expression to explain why we are voting for a solution we really don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e311	I want to say at least that this is a winner's day. The proposition we are discussing today, and the decisions we are making today, are essentially a follow-up to the decision to extend the feather quota. In the case of the Centre Party, the aim is to increase the father’s association with the child in the parental leave. The birth rate is important in order to make fathers better acquainted with their children from birth onwards in early childhood years, as well as to share in the child’s upbringing and upbringing. It was the red-green government that introduced 14 weeks' spring quota, but this was reversed to 10 weeks by the Solberg I government in 2014 – probably with the help of the Progress Party. But the Central Party is pleased that, at last, there is a broad political consensus – at least in a vote – about extending the feather quota. Furthermore, we are in favour of the Ministry's proposal to extend the benefit period for both twin parents and multiple parents. These parents have a greater burden of care than other parents, and today’s parental leave does not cover the real care needs of these families. This has been addressed by the Centre Party in the past and among others. wished to extend the period of leave after multiple birth. I have to say, however, that there are aspects of the parental leave scheme that are not taken into account in the proposition. In particular, the father’s right to independent withdrawals. If the extended spring quota is to have the desired effect, which is more equality and shared responsibility for the children, then the father must be granted a self-exempt right to papacy. In the report 'Paperpaperm? Fathers who do not take a father’s quota — how many, who and why?’ from the Institute for Social Research find a clear link between the couple’s income, father’s income and father’s withdrawal from the father’s quota. There is a polarising trend in which the fathers who do not receive parental leave are either those with high income or those with low income. The report also shows that nearly 5,800 fathers in 2011 were not entitled to a parental allowance, as a result of their partner’s failure to earn the right to parental leave. This means, in practice, that many fathers are not allowed to participate in the scheme because it is not economically beneficial or because their mother does not meet the activity requirement required for father to take out paper issue. Another report, from 2009, shows that a lower proportion of fathers among self-employed take out the feather quota. This is explained, inter alia, by: that self-employed persons may find it difficult to obtain leave because the holding is dependent on their efforts, knowledge and presence, and that they may suffer a greater financial loss when taking parental leave than their fathers. In sum, this illustrates that the scheme does not have sufficient incentives to help several fathers withdraw the feather quota. I notice that the proposition does not address these issues, and there is no proposal for an autonomous exit right for Dad in it. It is also worth noting that ESA has repeatedly criticised Norway for discriminating against fathers in this area. Now the Center Party is not a hacked-in adherent of corrections that come from that edge, but precisely in this case the criticism is in place. What is surprising, however, is that the government, which is otherwise a strong supporter of both the EU and the EEA Agreement, chooses to ignore this. I am also surprised that no more parties stand behind or will support the proposal of the Central Party to impose autonomous exit rights on father. Everyone seems to agree in other respects that Father must be granted an autonomous exit right, but there will be only empty words from my colleagues when they choose to sit quietly in the boat and do not do anything when we make a concrete proposal. Finally, I would like to draw up the consultation input that the Committee has received from private individuals. The recordings come mainly from women who have children or are intended to have children. Women express skepticism that the spring quota is extended at the expense of the mother quota and thus results in fewer weeks for mother. The bill is perceived by them as an intervention in the private sphere. In several of the recordings it is noted that the change will make it more difficult, for example: breast-feeding. Another element mentioned is that a birth and becoming the mother of many women can be a cool experience, and not all for that reason are ready to go back to work after a few months. These recordings point to needs that should be taken into account in policy-making in this area. At the same time, it is important to stress that the purpose of the extension of the family quota is not to overrun families and their freedom of choice in order to organise their lives, but rather to facilitate father participation in the care of his own children. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e343	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e348	The matter we are dealing with now has three different parts, which SV have slightly different views on. To get rid of the unproblematic first: SV wholeheartedly supports giving twin parents four months more with parental leave than they have today, and giving multiple parents a double period of benefit. A study by the Institute of Public Health, to which reference was made from the pulpit earlier today, showed that multiple mothers are more likely to develop depression after the birth of their children, due to stress. SV has had a long time in their programmes and work to provide these parents with a safer framework by giving twin parents more parental leave and a double period of support. That is why we are pleased that this proposal is going through in the Chamber today. I'll be so generous that I give Christian People's Party boasts of having negotiated this. With regard to the government's proposal to introduce graduated cash support, it is a little wise proposal if we want to strengthen women's participation in working life and work for more full-time and less part-time. It's important for women's economic autonomy, which is a prerequisite for genuine equality. The government proposes to make it possible to receive 20, 40, 60, 80 or 100 pst. rate, depending on the agreed residence period for the child. We have received clear feedback from both LO and NHO that this is a very bad idea. They fear that it will indicate that several cash beneficiaries, who are mainly women, will work part-time. SV is at least concerned with listening to the social partners when we develop policies that relate to employment, even though the right side has not chosen to do so in this case. In order to achieve real equality in work and family life, we need to think about equality in everything we do. The consequences of this proposal show that the government has not considered equality, so SV will vote against. In this proposition, the government responds to the majority request in a request decision that came in the debate at the start of this session. The opposition formed a historical majority in order for the government to reverse the cuts they have made in the father's quota – cut off the equality between family and working life, cut off the fathers' ability to be at home with their kids, cut off by a snarly right-wing ideological notion of family freedom, which is constantly pushed ahead of equality. It is gratifying that the central blue stockings – if we can call them that – in the government parties have gone back on their criticism of the feather quota. I'm really happy about that, but it was only to be missing when the result was that fewer fathers are home with the kids. It is good that the matter has now come back to Stortinget, in the form of a proposal for a three-part parental leave. The most important thing for SV has always been to increase the spring quota at the expense of the common period. As a result, several fathers are more and more at home. It is important both for the children, who have an important relationship with their fathers, for the fathers, who get to be at home, and for the mothers, who get better opportunities in working life. Therefore, the SV's primary position is to increase the feather quota, but we will vote in favour of the third proposed today. Finally, the Centre Party has made a proposal on the autonomy of the right of withdrawal for fathers. It's a point of view that SV shares. It is important that this possibility is made more real in order to allow several fathers to be at home with the children. ESA has now brought the case before the EFTA Court, because they believe that Norway is in breach of the Equality Directive. It's serious. We may be forced into a solution that is not ideal. SV is going to vote for the proposal of the Central Party today. We will also come back to this matter with another new model in relation to the budget, which we believe is realistically feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e372	The Christian People's Party has had several major and important breakthroughs in last year's budget negotiations, but one of them I'm most proud of is the four new, fresh leave months we got to the twin parents and full doubling of the leave of vibration and other multiple parents. Even I have had one child at a time, but it has required its own nightstand, 24-hour bottle station, care and gunning – undoubtedly the best and most demanding years in the family's life. Yes, it's great to have children – and yes, it turns everyday on your head. That's why we in the Christian People's Party understand that some parents can be overwhelmed when they are told on the ultrasound that it's going to be double joy. The Christian People's Party works for a society that's good for the children, and for a society that looks at the children as the best good we have. If that's the case, we also have to invest in the children and families as a society. The first time is valuable and important for children to have a safe and good relationship with both their parents. Therefore, these four new months of leave for twin parents are so important – for the two newcomers, that they will have even more care and comfort and the presence of both mother and father. The Christian People's Party is the family party, and it is with great concern that we see the continuing decline in birth rates here to land. We want Norway to be the world's best country to be a child in and the world's best country for families. Then time together is some of the most important family can get. This is about values, it is about politics, and it is about value-based policies. The Christian People's Party wants to redeploy more from the common fund to the families, and we are very pleased that we have had an impact on flexible cash support. With such a high proportion of 1-year-olds in the kindergarten that we now have, it's high time we put a foot in the ground and ask ourselves if all 1-year-olds fit in the same shape. The answer is no, they don't. With flexible cash support, several parents can have financial room to choose a quieter kindergarten start for their one-year-olds. They may choose to start with a few days a week, or with shorter days in the first six months — whichever is the best for their one-year-old, and what suits their family situation. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the extended leave for multiple parents and for flexible cash support. But we're far from done doing everyday better for families. We want to give fathers independent access rights, we want to keep raising the quality of kindergarten and school, we want to raise child welfare, and we want all children to be welcome in the world, including those who are going to need extra care. Often, they are the same children who gradually give extra special care to others. So a couple of sentences about the three-part parental leave. What the Christian People's Party will warn against is to put in place too rigid schemes in the field of parental leave. A year ago, the Christian People's Party agreed to raise the father's quota from 10 to 14 weeks, because we saw what happened when we lowered the father's quota from 14 to 10 weeks, and it was important to make a change in it. That's not very dramatic, what's now being proposed, because we're raising the rate of fathers and mothers to 15 weeks instead of 14. Nevertheless, I would warn against introducing excessively rigid arrangements, because I think that will force a need for many exceptions, and I think it is a pity if that happens. Just a small comment at the end: I heard the representative from the Supreme Court criticising the flexible cash support and pointing to the working life and the feedback that came from the NHO and the LO. I just want to say that it is not labour policy that is behind flexible cash support, it is family policy. The flexible cash support is about making it easier for children to get a softer start on their day-to-day or day-to-day day. That's why we worked to get this through in the budget negotiations last year. Families are different, children are different, there are different needs, and we're trying to make the families feel the flexibility they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e393	The Government has proposed a third of the parental leave. I am proud of this proposal and of the fact that it comes from a Right-wing Party-Left-Registration. I am very pleased that the Stortinget today adopts the most offensive and equal-minded parental death scheme Norway has ever had. Then I want to say that what makes me most happy is – unlike anyone here, who says that it is primarily a victory for equality – that this is a victory for the families and for the children, who get to be at home their first year of life with both mother and father and create strong ties to both their parents. The parental leave scheme is about caring for our very least. We also see that it means a lot to a more equal family life and work life. I thought eight years ago that Norway was such an equal country that the generation of fathers and today's parents were so concerned with shared parenthood that the quota was unnecessary. So we saw with a reduction in the quota from 14 to 10 weeks that the quota was exactly the same as the number of weeks Dad takes out. I do not know that the father then took less parental leave, fewer weeks, was due to the fact that it was difficult to go and ask for several weeks of paperwork from the employer, and that it was there that it stopped, or whether it was at home with his own partner that it stopped. I don't know what it was about, but obviously there's still a need for a father's allowance that makes fathers towards the employer have this right, and that the right to these weeks at home with the child should not be career-removing in any way. It's important. It's also important to one's own partner, partner, mother of the child, to show that you want to be home, not just by using the whole quota, but also the optional quota. The last part that parents can have in between is not my mom's allowance, it's the same amount of dad's allowance. I'm glad that we, because we saw that the withdrawal of the quota to father, the number of weeks, went down, reintroduced a parental leave scheme that ensures the child's connection to and association with both parents during its first year of life. I think this will lead to many more fathers taking out their entire quota, that many fathers also show how much it means to the family and to the relationship with the child that they spend a lot of the first year of life at home, and that therefore several fathers will eventually also use a lot of the optional part. I am pleased that today’s Stortinget also decides that twin parents will have four months extra social benefits, and that parents who have three or more children will have a double social benefit period. It's important and right that we give multiple parents a rough extension to a challenging period of life. These are decisions that will help to strengthen the ability of families to take care of their children in the first year of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e417	The working party has been very clear that we are opposed to the cash support. We have voted against extending the scheme at all crossroads since then, because we believe that it is a wrong instrument in both family, gender and labour policy in Norway. In the 20 years that cash support has existed, we have spent 50 billion dollars. kr on the scheme. There is money for many kindergartens and other family and gender equality measures. I understand that the Right too is happy that more and more women work full-time. But when it is now added to a scheme such as the NHO, among other things. speaking as a part-time carrot, I am in doubt that the Council of State understands the consequences of the proposal. If the Right wants more women to work full-time, the State Council may explain the Storting why she is now proposing to spend 79 million. kr on which the NHO refers as a part-time carrot?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e424	The explanation for this is that unlike the Workers' Party, which ideologically and in principle believes that it is a political task to enter and govern the details as much as possible of how families live their lives, the Right to freedom of choice is right. We believe that it is Mother and Father who are best able to make the choices for their family, and for what best suits their children. We're busy getting more women into work. In the field of integration, one of our most important tasks — not least for me as a Minister for Gender Equality — is to get more immigrant mothers into work. That is why we are now reforming the introduction programme. We are concerned that more people will learn Norwegian languages. We're concerned that Nav especially follows up the immigrant parents, and not least the immigrant mothers, because it also has a lot to say to reduce child poverty, which the government is very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e431	I am uncertain whether the changes in the cash support scheme help to get more immigrant mothers out to work. But at least I'm proud that a large majority in this room now adopts a parental death penalty scheme that helps several fathers take out more leave, and that the children get more connection with both their parents. The council took us in their post eight years back in time. In November 2010, the Council of State of Hofstad Helleland – the time when the Right-wing Family Policy Spokesperson – reacted strongly to the proposal of the Red-Green Government on a third of the parental leave and claimed that the government then sacrificed the children ‘on the altar of equality’. The Council of State said to the NRK at the time that the red-green government was ‘more concerned with achieving full equality than with caring for the needs of the child in its first year of life’. My question to the Council of State is whether she still has that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e440	I'm concerned about what's best for the children and for the families. Even I don't put so much prestige into what I suggested as the leader of the Right Women's Forum eight years ago. When I get the figures that a reduced father's quota leads to fewer fathers being at home with their children, it's of course my job as a big-time politician, and as a government council now, to change the point of view of getting more fathers home to be with their children. It's the purpose of good family life, that the children should have good breeding conditions, which is the most important thing for me. That is why I am very pleased that the Jelaua platform is so clear that we are concerned that several fathers should have the opportunity to be at home with their children. That's why we're proposing this third, and that's why I'm proud of the decision that the Storting is now making.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e447	After all, the central party agrees with the government regarding the cash support, and we agree with the Minister that this is a victory for the families and children. But it's also a victory for equality. I think it is good that the government and the minister have changed their mind on these issues recently. But when it comes to this little equality-friendly arrangement that fathers cannot get parental allowances on their own premises, i.e. that they are dependent on their mother's situation, the government hasn't changed lately – that is, the minister has changed his mind, for in the past she thought the same thing as the Center Party in that case. I think it's nice that we today admit that we see the value of changing our mind. But I wonder if the minister could tell me why she now stands on the point that it is not discriminatory enough – given the ESA's criticism of us – that we do not have an autonomous exit right for Dad. I don't understand why an equality minister is fighting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e456	It is very fascinating to hear representatives of the Central Party standing on the pulpit of Stortingen and propose that we change the right of withdrawal for Dad and claim that now we must go from empty words to action. We politicians show action through the priorities we do in the state budget. What has the Center Party done? The Central Party has proposed 10 million. kr to the modified entitlement scheme for father. The scheme costs 800 million. kr, so what the Center Party is proposing today, is a right of withdrawal for fathers who will last barely a week. This shows the realities of the Central Party's policy. What is proposed must also be shown in the budgets. I think we should also look at this criticism from ESA – it concerns the gender perspective, [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e465	The center party is ready to take that cost, but we understand that it's a very high sum. All parties have talked about how important this is, how we're going to do it, and whether we're going to have an escalation. We have to look at that. But what I'm interested in knowing is whether the minister is completely consistent on this, or whether she wants to start working on this issue and raise money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e470	I'm ready to work on this. And when SV from the pulpit also says that they want to look at the scheme, I think it is a fine challenge. If the parties want this to work out, we should talk. But I have to say, I'm surprised that the Central Party now on the pulpit is shooting at the autumn budget and standing here promising these 6,000 fathers to get 800 million. kr to full removal right. When the Center Party says they're ready to take this cost, that means we can expect 800 million. kr to this from the Centre Party in the budget of the autumn. It was a good news, certainly, for many of the fathers who are concerned about this. I'm more concerned about how we're going to get real changes. I see that it's unfair for someone, but that it's also a huge cost. It's about priorities in our field. [[The President cut off]] That's why I'm ready to...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e478	With regard to the full rights of the fathers, there is something also the Christian People's Party is busy getting in place. We have prioritised that in our alternative budgets. But it has a cost, and this is not a mechanism that can be introduced with a escalation. Either you put the system in place, or you don't. With regard to the third division of parental leave, and the choice to introduce such a rigid scheme as you choose – is not the Council of State concerned that this will result in the need to introduce more exceptions? It has been pointed out, among others: self-employed persons and their challenges of taking out the entire period of leave. So to another thing: there are several people who have arranged to split the parental leave. Can the Council of State cancel or confirm whether it is also the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e487	Like the Christian People's Party, this government is committed to ensuring the freedom of choice of the families. We know that children are different. There are different needs in families, and therefore it is also important for families to have flexibility. I am very pleased that we have now gone so far that we in the Jeløya platform propose a third. That's the government's policy. I'm afraid that a two-fold will reduce the flexibility the family should have the opportunity to use. I will, of course, also follow closely the way the scheme works out, for example. self-employed and others, so that we get a system that is for the benefit of the children but also works well for both parents, so that a good balance can still be struck between a good family life and a good working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e494	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e501	Since the beginning of the 1990s, when we first got the concept of "fatherhood quota" and fathers who were entitled to leave work to care for their children, there has been a silent revolution that has given us major changes in the father's role. Over the last 20 years, fathers have slowly, but surely taken a much larger place in their children's lives. This has given us a more equal parenthood, but also a more equal family life and work life. But the winners are, as state councillor Hofstad Helleland weighted in his post, mainly the kids, who are now so lucky to have two engaged caregivers from day one. Since its introduction in 1993, the first weeks of the spring quota have been steadily increasing, up to 14 weeks in 2013, before being cut to 10 weeks by the previous government. This cut, as several have mentioned, led to a cut in fathers’ withdrawals from parental leave, which was very unfortunate from a gender perspective. The left therefore opted for a third of the parental leave and prioritised it high in government negotiations in winter. The reason is that one third of parental leave without any doubt is one of the most important gender equality policies we can implement. If people are to be equal at work, in work and in society, for others, they have to be equal at home. I must thank the Council of State for working so quickly and well to introduce a third parental leave, and that the new legislation will be in force from 1 July. Third parental leave is important for equality, but we're not in the goal, and the left is eager to get another step further. Like many who have spoken in this debate, we are also concerned about the need for fathers to have independent access rights to parental leave. But it is primarily a budgetary matter, although it is also an important matter of principle. The left believes it is important that the starting point is two like-minded parents who both want a lot of time with their child. At the same time, we know that families are different. So we keep 16 weeks that parents choose how they want to take out. In this way, each family is given flexibility. At the same time, I don't want to hide that my goal is for even more families to distribute the leave weeks more equally than what we've put up with here. I think many men would like to be at home with the child for more than 15 weeks, and many women want to come back to work earlier than they usually do today. However, expectations both within the family and among employers for both women and men make it possible for many to continue to choose traditionally, where mother takes the whole common period. We believe that, for example: public forms and systems should be more offensively structured. Today it is that when an applicant for parental leave, the starting point is that mother should take the entire common period. One must itself in and actively change if the father is to take more than his quota. With one third of the parental leave, we also believe that equality and equality should be the starting point, including in the Nav forms. Today’s decision makes this a label day for equality in Norway, and luckiest of all are the children. They grow up with equivalent care professionals in a more equal society, and it offers more opportunities and greater freedom of choice for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e514	Let me first just say that I think it was a strange line change, especially with regard to the Center Party, where the Council of State largely criticized the central party's policy instead of answering questions. Furthermore, it is interesting to note that the Council of State is now very little interested in historical stories. But we have a lot of things in this room where both the Council of State and the Right and the Advance Party are particularly interested in historical stories, especially in the black-and-green government. But to the matter: It is good to hear the Right now tell us that the father quota system is good for the children, and that it is important that the children have good contact with both mother and father. Of course, we fully agree with that. Then we're just going to observe that the Progress Party in this case is now voting for something they're actually opposed to. But back to the Council of State, which is trying to use this pulpit to present it as if the opposition – and I would think especially the Workers' Party – is more concerned with equality than with children, and is more concerned with equality in the workplace. Equality, an equal work life, an equal family life, is good, also for the children. It's actually a win-win situation. They present it as if the Labour Party did not even care about the children – yes, we have heard it in several debates. It's -- what to say -- an argument to use that one might think might strike out in the opinion. But I underline again: Of course, the Workers' Party is concerned with the children. We're concerned with good kindergartens. We're busy with good schools. We're concerned with good growth for the kids. So it's probably a little bit of its own unreasonableness to criticise us for it. Finally, it is interesting to hear that the Right now connects to the NHO, as they accuse the Workers' Party of doing in terms of the LO, and not least criticises the LO and the Workers' Party for. But we just have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e527	I have to say I am happy to hear more representatives speak warmly about the increase in the father's quota. Then I will also point out, as among others. The representative of the SV mentioned from the Chair that there has been a broad consensus in several parties that this quota should be increased. But it is important to note that this is not just a follow-up to the decision in Stortinget last year, as the representative of Oberstegård seems to think. This is not just an extension of the spring quota, but a structural change to the parental pension scheme. So the third is an independent model. It's not just a follow-up to last year's decision. So I noticed that the representative Sønsterud thought the line change was somewhat strange. I had a rather different experience of it. I think it is appropriate to ask questions about whether you are spending money when you choose to give priority to the decisions you are talking about in this room. There is no secret that for the Left it has also been important to look at the right of withdrawal, there is also something left has been fixed in its programming programme. We believe that fathers have to be granted the self-exempt right to parental leave, so that they can take out leave based on whether they themselves have been active, not if their mother has it. But it's a budget question, it's about 800 million. kr – that is at least the estimates. I think the government has followed up this matter, and I think the council has responded to it in a very tidy and good way. So I would also like to point out that the tens of millions that the Central Party has invested have to be significantly increased if the Center Party actually wants to add this to its alternative budget. So there's been a lot of footage that's about the father's quota going to be at the expense of the mother's quota. It has been said several times in writing to the Committee. I just want to point out that it's not right. We're actually increasing the mother's quota as well. It's at the expense of the common period. So there's both an increase in the mother's share and an increase in the father's share -- a real third. I'm not so worried about what someone in the hall is worried about when it comes to any rigid arrangements. For some of the concerns we have heard in this debate, for example. those dealing with health challenges, there are other schemes that will be well-managed. I think this is a first step for an important model, and I'm glad that we get through these decisions today. And then I am glad that there is such a great deal of consensus in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e542	I have some comments in connection with the debate. I think I must be allowed to repeat that the Right is not an echo of the NHO. I can't understand how the Workers' Party really could have thought that. But it's probably about how the Workers' Party sees itself in relation to the LO. We are developing policies on an independent basis. We listen to everyone. We can also see that when the policy we adopt does not work as the intention was, we can actually turn it around. When also research and experience shows that fathers actually didn't take out the quota, we're doing something about it. So I just want to thank the representative from SV for being called blue stockings. I take that as a solid compliment. Many schemes can be used in Norway to promote equality. Yes, equality is important in terms of parental death rates and how we dispose of them, but that's what matters to the individual family, and what's best for the child, which must be the focus of what we do. We feel that there is an ideological difference. We have the Workers' Party on one side, which is now – as we have been confirmed today – clearly opposed to cash support. I was a little in doubt when I heard the representative Giske at the pulpit on a matter we dealt with here in the Chamber a while ago, where it was claimed that one thought that perhaps one could reach agreement with the Christian People's Party on how to set up the cash support. But the debate today has made it quite clear: the Labour Party is – and that is good – predictable against cash support. We're in the right for. We believe that families must be allowed to adjust as best they can. Then it is claimed that if you take out cash support, you will come into the workplace later and perhaps work more part-time – we want full-time jobs. I have not seen that neither research nor evidence has been presented that the women in Norway who take out cash support participate less in the labour market or take less education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e557	I want to say as representative Melby that today is a brand day. But it is also worth noting that this is a brand day that was first removed by this government, and is now being introduced again. It's also a way to measure victory. Equality or children, equality or family, work or equality, work or family: these are the contradictions that the right-wing government has addressed in this debate. These have never been the opposite of the Workers' Party. Equally parenting and working life are good for the family, that's good for the children, and that's good for the parents – and not least it's good for the community. That's why we have a story where we've managed to reconcile these relationships: cardboard, care for the elderly, care for sick children, kindergartens and an inclusive working life, along with the social partners. It is the Workers' Party's political project to create well-being and facilitate equal opportunities for both parents, and we will now work to extend the scheme so that more than legal parents can also have schemes related to parental leave. It's going forward and meeting future challenges. It's good that the Right has turned around. They turned because they got new numbers, said Ørmen Johnsen. Request decision is probably a more likely reason. The councils are as happy today on behalf of the children as she was on behalf of the children when she was against cardboard. The child's concern and freedom of choice is the most important thing, but the right has gone after the hair again and uses the same argument now that they did eight years ago, when the position was quite different. In the same article, the Right-Speaks with two tongues. Let me just say that the NHO does not mean ‘both on the one hand and on the other’ – I think it’s a quite correct quote from Ørmen Johnsen: they believe that the flexible cash support introduced reduces the value creation that women contribute to society, and it reduces the uptake into working life of parents who have low professional participation and who work part-time. 3 300 B.C.E. members of the government have boasted of the contribution of their women. Had we had a right-wing government for a long time, I doubt that the value creation had been so great. We're looking at care-permit schemes, which I'm going to come back to in my next post, because now I see that the time is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e572	I notice that the representative Henriksen is trying to present this change in the law and the increase in the father's quota as something that was just removed, and then reintroduced. It is true that it is a request that is followed up, but it has been added for an additional week. So it's 15 weeks, so we actually have a historically high spring ratio. Not enough: the third division introduced is an independent model, and it's a significant change. The left is proud that we were both able to fight for this in the election campaign and get an impact on this in the government statement. I also think it is a little special that questions are asked about the motivation of the Council of State to make this change. I have to say that I have full confidence that the Council of State has presented from this pulpit here today, has been sincere and honest, and not least that you take over the numbers and the new knowledge you get. I think the Council of State has explained that in a very good and tidy way here today. So I'd like to add at the tame of the debate that as we now go into the Pride season of the year, it's also important to note that today's Norwegian families are diverse, and the rainbow family, or the modern family, doesn't fit into yesterday's family norm with the expectation that Mother will take most of the responsibility for the children. A parental leave where it is stated that both parents take a significant part, equates the parent, whether it is owned by a father and a mother, by two fathers or by two mothers. A three-part parental leave gives a fair starting point, no matter what the family looks like. It is important to point out that this is an important equality issue, but luckiest of all are the children. They grow up with equivalent care professionals in a more equal society, and it offers opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e583	Now the President will not guarantee that we are still at the bottom of the debate – but the next speaker is Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e588	I'm not going to pull it out, but I have a need to clarify when I'm trying to be ridiculed in terms of our $10 million. kr i revised, that they are based on the response from the Ministry on the cost of introducing autonomous exit rights for father from 1 July 2018. It would have little effect on the budget. We took a sum and put it in. That's where it comes in. It's not about putting 10 million. NOK up to 800 million. kr, which it is estimated will cost for an entire year. This is based on figures on which the Minister himself has signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e594	What I was going to say was linked to the comment that more people had listened to the representative Trond Giske in an earlier debate, where we signaled that we could now come to an agreement on family policy. I believe that if the representative Örmen Johnsen had listened carefully, she might not have heard agreement with the government, but with the Christian People's Party. I think that's what Trond Giske is thinking about what we have in our program. We want to help parents in the time frame that parents experience, and we want policy tools to do so. In our programme we have, among other things: a desire to work out a policy where we will look at reducing working time for parents in the first two years. It'll be good family policy. We want to do it with the social partners. We want to develop policies that actually create a better family framework. So to this with that it's a brand day today. That's it. I said it was a brand day today, but we have had a similar brand day before. I will give the Left Honor because they have come into the government, because it has actually contributed to the Right being dragged after the hairs in this matter. It's very positive, so we just call it hurrah, hurrah, hurrah for. What I find a little strange is that the right parties on the one hand are talking about ideology and freedom of choice, and that freedom of choice is the best thing for children. When they get on the table that that ideology and that freedom of choice actually doesn't work, they change politics, but they're still talking about ideology and freedom of choice. Either they must now have reduced freedom of choice for families by introducing three-part parental leave, or freedom of choice is no longer such an important argument for the right. It's a fair job to take, it's very fair to change politics, but one cannot argue with the same ideological superstructures on both sides. Either the freedom of choice is not to have a third of the parental leave, which the Right argued ten years ago, or the freedom of choice is to have a third parental leave, for which the Workers' Party has always argued.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e603	I just want to make it clear that for the Christian People's Party there is no contradiction between a good equality policy and a good family policy. It's all right. With regard to the Workers' Party's thoughts that one should always be able to agree with the Christian People's Party, I think that the distance to the left and the Workers' Party when it comes to cash support is so great that I see it terribly difficult from the positions of the parties on the left that one should be able to easily reach agreement. I think it is positive that the Labour Party thinks that in the first two years with children you may have a somewhat reduced working time, but it remains on the premises of working life. And that's where the big difference between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party is. The working party always pulls out the taskbar, while we're busy with the family. We're busy with the kids, we're concerned that the family should be able to have an freedom of choice that means that if you think that the child has the good of being a little bit more at home, you should have the opportunity to do that. So the Christian People's Party is a hot defender of cash support, and we're proud that we've introduced it. This year, the scheme celebrates its 20th anniversary. Then we're not there that everything is hogged down in stone. Of course, all arrangements need to be modernised because society is changing, but reducing the family's ability to make their own choices will never be the Christian People's Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e614	This is a bit of a strange debate. Now, when we're at such a big brand day for Norwegian children, Norwegian families and Norwegian gender equality policy, the Labour Party spends time talking about the snow that fell last year, talking about what the women's political leader in the Right proposed eight years ago, and talking about what Right before, instead of being concerned about the future. The Labour Party appears to have lost grip on family policy and equality policy and then, in despair, spends its time on this pulpit trying to write down a story that, in any case, it is the Workers' Party that is to take credit, it is the Workers' Party that is to take the lead in everything that is about equality and family policy in this country. It's not like that. Now, in fact, it is a Right Party-Left Government that presents the most equivocal, a historical, parental leave scheme in the Grand Duchy, and this government has a majority in favour of it. I'm glad the Left joined the government. I am pleased with the wording that left got through, and because we have worked so effectively that from the declaration was submitted in January, we are able to put in place a new system that will work for all children born after 1 July. This is a government that shows executive power, which is committed to taking society forward, which believes that an equal and good family life is also a very important value for us as a society. It is important that all parents be able to combine a working life with taking care of their children. So I hope that this will affect a change in attitude and also a change in culture among employers, where fathers should be able to go home to pick up the nursery, where fathers should be able to take out not only the father's quota, but also the entire optional quota, for that matter, whether it suits the individual child and this family the best. Now we've done a lot with regulation. We've done a lot with the law, but it's still about attitudes. It's about changing structures and changing cultures if we're going to get there that mother and father, women and men are completely equal in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e629	I shall try to be very brief, for most things are well said in this debate. But a lot of political elements have been drawn in, among others. how this government, on the part of the Progress Party, does everything well in many policy areas. That article was very little about the matter. Then we hear the Council of State in the pulpit now that uses at least half of its contribution to tell the Chamber that the Workers' Party is not concerned with equality, has lost the grip on family policy, etc. She spends her time on it, and at the same time she stands and criticizes us for making it so that when we say our opinion to the government, it gets very hurt and search and hard. There's going to be a strange debate, I actually agree with the Council of State. Then we can say it this way: Yes, the government shows action in many things for the country. I could have gone in, for example. treasure bill. But I must probably be allowed to stress that unfortunately, the power of action is a little too great in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e638	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e654	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e663	We will discuss the proposal on changes to the Children's Act and the Citizens' Act, which are about parents and citizenship of children born abroad. A main purpose of the proposals in the proposal is to contribute to a better handling of issues relating to the declaration of fatherhood of children born abroad when there is doubt about identity. In some countries and in some cases, it may be difficult for Norwegian authorities to decide on the identity of the child, the mother or the person who will declare himself a father. Children born abroad may lack documents, as a birth certificate, or there may be doubts about documents on the identity to be provided – from countries without a public birth register, countries where official documents are not issued, or countries where documents may have a low reputation, thus increasing the risk of incorrect information. An overall committee points out that the Ministry’s consultation provides broad support for the proposal for a new provision of the Children’s Act, which allows for the request for a DNA test by declaring a hazard to children born abroad when the conditions for doing so are met. The Civil Code provides that a child will automatically become a Norwegian national at birth if his or her father or mother is a Norwegian national. Therefore, it is very important that this is properly documented. It is proposed to amend the Children’s Act in such a way that only Norwegian Foreign Officials should have competence abroad to accept father’s declarations. The change means that the honorary representatives no longer have competence in the definition of skills. The proposed change will have the effect of making it a little less simple for Norwegian citizens and nationals of other countries to declare fatherhood under Norwegian law abroad. It may be a disadvantage for those affected, but it is believed that other considerations are heavier. A main purpose of the proposals in the proposal is to contribute to better dealing with issues relating to the declaration of fatherhood of children born abroad when there is doubt about identity. There is broad consensus in the Committee on the subject. That is why the Committee also promotes a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e676	Children have the right to the protection of their true identity and, where appropriate, their citizenship. Authorities are currently unable to request a DNA test by declaration of hazard, and this may be a problem in countries where it is not possible to obtain a birth certificate or ID document, or in countries where such documents are also not fully trusted. For example, lack of ability to ask for a DNA test when there is an ID doubt. give rise to a risk of trafficking in human beings. I do not have much to add to what the rapporteur just informed me about. I am very pleased that the committee unanimously supports the proposal and that we have had a quick discussion of this matter. The reasons for the government's presentation of this proposal include, inter alia: that our foreign stations have reported concerns that, in some cases, there may be a false declaration of danger in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship. If the man is a Norwegian national, the child will automatically become a Norwegian national and will receive passports and permanent residence. Several departments are responsible. That is why we have cooperated on the matter that we have presented to Stortinget. This case has also received a broad response from the hearing bodies, and I am pleased that the Storting today makes a decision in the matter which now means that there is no longer any doubt about the declaration of fatherhood for children born abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e687	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e703	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e712	On a day like this, where the hit lists are topped by the song ‘summer body’, a simple but enticing song that has turned stream chords a lot because it actually fixes a critical searchlight on unhealthy body pressure and the use of plastic operations, promoted by, among others. bloggers, I would say that the time is overdue for us in this room to address this problem. I would therefore like to thank the proposers, Freddy André Øvstegård, Solfrid Lerbreck and Nicholas Wilkinson in SV, for this representative proposal on the body press and the advertising industry. As the rapporteur, I would also like to thank the Cooperation Committee, and not least because it has so clearly shown great interest in the subject, both in the debate on the matter and in the fact that Members, among other things, have shown great interest in it. have participated in the Press organisation’s launch of their disparaging report on the subject, and that others have organised their own seminar on the subject. The Committee held a hearing on 3 May, where three organisations that have listened on the subject participated: Norwegian Women’s Sanitation, Press and Sex and Society. All the hearing bodies were in favour of the proposal for a representative, and it signalled support for several of the concrete proposals contained in it. I feel that all of us in the room agree that body pressure and unhealthy beauty ideals are a growing social problem. Many children and young people are mentally struggling, and physical and physical stress are some of the most important factors that in one study after another relate to mental distress. Children and adolescents are exposed to unhealthy exposure, which in turn affects their self-image and their relationship to their own body and appearance. This is worrying. It is serious when children and young people become mentally ill or are plagued by their experience of not being able to live up to the ideals of beauty from the advertising industry, the blog world, reality series, etc. As rapporteur of the case, I am therefore very pleased that a unanimous committee is promoting two concrete proposals on the matter that will move us in the right direction: we agree that it is very important that we now ensure that the forthcoming child and youth mental health escalation plan also contains measures to combat body pressure, and measures to promote positive self-image and positive self-esteem. The entire committee also calls on the government to strengthen the supervision of unhealthy advertising targeting children and young people, in particular advertising promoting unrealistic ideals of beauty and contributing to body pressure. In other words, consumer supervision needs to work more targetedly and with increased focus on that type of advertising in the future, and at least that work will be followed closely by the Centre. I expect the respective parties to explain their views on the matter and look forward to it as well as the statement to the Minister, who had an event on this subject at the latest yesterday. I am happy the minister is engaged in the subject matter now, but would probably wish that both she and the government parties had joined in on even more of the proposals being promoted in this matter. The centre party and I are in any case very pleased that the opposition – and then the majority of the population – recognizes that it is necessary to take greater and significant steps to reverse the negative development with enormous body and appearance pressures by also voting for the following proposal today: ‘The government is asking for firm support in the regulation of the commercial marketing of cosmetic surgery, in particular advertising, which contributes to unhealthy body ideals and which also reaches children and young people’. We decide to amend the provision on good marketing practice in the Marketing Act, which specifies that advertisers should ensure that advertising does not show an unrealistic or unhealthy ideal of beauty, including: in the labelling of advertising which by retouch changes the body shape of humans. We also decide to amend Section 21 of the Marketing Act, which regulates good marketing practices for children, in order to prevent advertising aimed at children in general and to counteract body pressure against young people in particular. Otherwise, I am sure that, as a committee and also the Stortinget, we will work further with the subject matter in addition to this Document 8. For so long, we can rejoice that people across the whole country sing ironically on strophes like ‘Should I get my summer body as I want to, I must be operated’, when this which is now referred to as the summer heat of the year is played. But at the same time we have to know that for many young people, both those who live by their looks and especially those who influence them, this is unfortunately not irony. With that, I'm going to deal with the proposals that the Center Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e738	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e743	First, thank you to SV for raising this matter. It is an important matter, which will make a difference for many young people. SV has the wholehearted support of the Workers' Party in this matter, and the Christian People's Party is restoring itself. That's good. Then it becomes a majority. When we do not support proposal No. 8 from the Socialist Left, it is because it is with proposal No. 4 will be the majority of a thorough action plan. From our point of view, we would like to stress that the list is not exhaustive, so that the conditions mentioned in proposal No. 8 are not excluded from the proposed action plan. The body press has changed. When I was young – in the 1970s – the struggle for ownership stood on my own. Women threw the bras, were proud of their bodies and confirmed their ownership of the body on, among other things. the way. The body was ours. No one was supposed to mess with it, nor was the advertising industry. Women and men were strongly opposed to the power of advertising and industry. What made women – and we are not yet on target – regarded as independent individuals and good enough as they were – was that the policy supported what the women themselves thought was important. The right to work on equal terms and the right to self-determination over prevention and sexuality were transformed into political decisions – and not just justice; the right followed opportunities for women due to policy delivery. Young people today live at a different time and under a different policy. Today, the threat to both boys and girls is advertising and the fashion industry's demands: Become like us. ‘Become like us’ is a dangerous rule, whether it comes from religious assemblies, from youth groups or from the beauty industry. In today's society, seven out of ten will change their appearance. There's a connection between advertising, body pressure and mental health. The digital everyday life reinforces this context. The main measure is to prevent the negative experiences that young people can get from their own bodies and looks. That's because we adults act like good role models and teach our children to be satisfied with themselves. But in today's society, that's not enough. It's not enough to talk about it either. A strong and concrete action plan is needed. Fortunately, Stortinget agreed with the Workers' Party that there was a need for a clearer regulation of the beauty industry. The government received a clear message yesterday: politicians have to set up and contribute. The gender market must be regulated more stringently. It is incomprehensible that the right-wing government voted against this proposal on the same day as they received this invitation from blogger Anniken Jørgensen: ‘But as bloggers, we shouldn’t be allowed to distribute discount codes, whether it’s for ‘fillers’. [[...]] I agree with the blogger: it's headmist. It is regrettable that the government does not listen better – the government parties also vote against the proposal we are discussing today – it does enough, says the government. The political difference is that while the right-wing government believes that there is enough talk, conferences and accountability for others, the Labour Party believes that yes, that is necessary, but that is not enough. Experience with the plans put forward by the government now is that they are underfunded and too poorly anchored, and responsibility is not clearly defined. They'll get clear feedback on that. It's a shame, but it's a well-known right-wing policy. Not using the necessary policy instruments is a dividing line that allows changes to take place quickly and efficiently and become consistent over time, regardless of the timing. Youth is short. There is no contradiction – as I see it – between both working on the matter of what the government has on the stairs and at the same time developing a concrete and binding action plan. The feedback from the organisations at the hearing was clear. Press wanted an action plan with funding, Norwegian Women's Sanitation, yes, thanks, an action plan, Sex and Society, yes, thanks, an action plan, government – no thank you. Thank you, but no thanks, we say to the right-wing government's refusal. This is too important to do nothing about. We agree with the organisations that have expressed themselves, and agree with the feedback that comes from young people. The Workers' Party will draw up specific decisions. It's high time. Today – after voting – the government is likely to get new marshalls from Stortinget: Do something more concrete with the body-pressed youth being exposed to! This seems to be a good day. In doing so, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party shares with the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e776	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e781	Right and I, like the vast majority of society, are concerned about increasing body pressure among children and young people. I want to bring forward the strategy for good mental health, Master all my life, where the government talks about children and young people's use of social media. It would be natural that this plan also refers to measures for children and young people that will make them better equipped to cope with pressures, demands and expectations from the outside world. Therefore, we do not support the proposal that an action plan against body pressure be drawn up, but support the proposal that these challenges be included in the alerted child and youth mental health escalation plan. Youth today is the first generation digitally native, and large parts of their daily lives are lived and shared by social media. With this in mind, we believe that several of the measures in the proposal for a representative are the coin on yesterday rather than the future. We do not believe in stricter regulations that only reach actors in Norway who market Norwegian products via Norwegian channels. That being said, we support the proposal for enhanced supervision of unhealthy advertising targeting children and young people. Consumer supervision has pointed out that the enforcement of marketing and advertising today is often a round table between different supervisory authorities and professional authorities. In our remarks, we have therefore recommended that the government look at the distribution of responsibilities between the Health Authority, the Food Safety Authority and the Consumer Protection Authority as regards the marketing of various offers of cosmetic surgery, slim products and other services that build up under increased body pressure. Kari Henriksen made a contribution to the gender policy debate last week, where she rallied over the fact that the Council of State organised round table conferences. Of course, the representative would like to do that, but I think she would have had greater benefit from being present. I myself attended a mini-seminar on 16 May this year, and yesterday I attended a conference with top managers in blogging networks, influencers, editors, journalists, politicians and researchers, on the initiative of the Council of State. Briefly, most of them raised attitudes, the importance of adults and focusing on what is taught away in kindergartens and in schools. Let me also quote some words from the VG comment to Morten Hegseth, who was present yesterday: ‘Helleland is now the most progressive politician on this particular topic, and after today’s meeting it appears that she is serious.’ Furthermore, he writes: ‘First of all, Greece may be the minister who is involved in changing courses for an entire generation that is now struggling in their heads, much because of the hidden influence of the Internet.’ It is at home, in kindergartens and in schools that healthy attitudes are mainly developed and taught. Early efforts to strengthen the self-esteem of children are probably one of the most important things we need to do well so that children and young people can make independent and good choices and dare to resist unhealthy pressures. At the Committee's hearing, the Association Sex and Society were very clear on this, and said that the school needs to facilitate normalizing our relationship with the body. They write in their statement that we all have plans and strategies that should be good tools in the work against body pressure. For several months ex-baller Mads Hansen has been discussing with bloggers about body pressure and cosmetic operations. There has been a debate with clear fronts. The central question is about the blogs that write about their own cosmetic operations, appearing as unhealthy role models for young people, insecure girls and boys. It is important that they and other actors with a strong influence on social media take a major responsibility for the impact they have on young people. It is therefore appropriate to establish cooperation with bloggers, their networks and advertisers in order to develop more binding ethical guidelines in this area. One of the openings of our mini-seminar was especially invited to talk about body pressure for young boys. One of the conclusions was that many young boys today lack male role models. Therefore, we would specifically encourage the government to intensify the recruitment of men for kindergarten education, as described in the Jeløya platform. Work on recruiting men for school health services should also be carried out. In this context, we support the ongoing work to change the title of today’s ‘health sister’. Healthy food and training are for the vast majority of good interventions that provide better physical and mental health. There is nothing wrong with wanting to lose weight or get better. But there's a reason to take it seriously when it becomes an all-over mania, where it's all about getting just a nice summer body. The best thing is to be normal -- that's what we have to normalize together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e819	Today is a very important day for the fight for young people’s freedom to be both themselves and to be like themselves for who they are – an important day in the fight against body pressure and against clever ideals for what is beautiful and not beautiful, ideals that harm young people’s mental health. Earlier in our year, Press, the Redd Barna youth organisation, launched a new survey that asked over 2,000 young people. It turned out that 68 pst. of the girls and 52 pst. by the boys wanted to change their appearance. 43 pst. know about body pressure in their own everyday life. It grows up an entire generation that hates its own body. Eating disorders are the third leading cause of death among young girls. Norwegian youth reports that they will be frozen from their friends if they do not have ‘fillers’ in their lips. The advertising industry and the beauty industry serve billions of young people's poor self-esteem. Wherever young people go, they are bombarded with advertising for an unattainable ideal of beauty. Mass advertising in public spaces, on television and not least targeted advertising on social media shows models that are photoshopped to the unrecognizable, and advertising for plastic surgery. Yes, the chances are great that right now there's an insecure young girl swinging through Tinder, and between the potential matches there's an advertisement to operate silicone in the breasts. That's how far it's gone. Already in 2014, a SIFO report called ‘Retarded advertising and body pressure’ showed that there is a link between advertising, body pressure and mental health. Since then, the advertising pressure has only increased. That's why it's so happy that we're finally doing something about it today, and it's the opposition that's doing it. Youth organisations across the political spectrum have sprung out at night and glued up the labelling of reticent advertising for eight years. I myself was at the foundation meeting for Youth against Retired Advertising in 2010, and it aroused my commitment. Today, we can finally cash in the winner. After several cities have gone ahead, the Stortinget will now decide that reticent advertising is to be noticed throughout the country – so that young people are reminded that the ideals of beauty to which we are exposed are not realistic. In addition, we are given an assurance that the government will step up the regulation of the commercial marketing of cosmetic surgery. It is an important step in the right direction to overcome some of the worst advertising that young people are exposed to. We also see the need to strengthen the law, to strengthen supervision and to include measures against body pressure in the mental health promotion plan for young people. I would like to thank all the activists who have stood by and fought for this for so many years, the organisations who have put it on the agenda – to all those who have fought for the freedom of youth to be themselves and to like themselves. This is an important milestone, but the fight continues. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e847	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e852	In today's society, we all have access to an infinite amount of information and images almost at all times. Mobile phones and social media allow everyone to express themselves in public whenever you want, and about what you want. That is good, and it is largely democratizing. There is a low threshold for participation in public debate, and there is no need for qualifications. But the lack of editors by the Internet and social media also means that there is a flora of unhealthy concepts and ideals out there – easily accessible, even for the most vulnerable. The body pressure that young people experience today is probably more intense, as more representatives have pointed out, than it was in the generations before. The perfect thing is yelling at us in all channels. The abnormal has become normal, and ordinary people do not feel good enough. To really get rid of these images, videos and gloriating texts, we probably had to start a pretty rough censorship of the Internet and make much stricter rules on what's allowed to be put out. And it's hard to know where to draw borders in a world where everyone uses filters. Most young people have some image editing skills, and cosmetic injections and operations are becoming increasingly common. Without closing the door completely, I think we should be careful to go that way. Because the Internet can't stop. What we have to do is for those who put things out, and those who see and read it. Prevention is, once again, the most effective and cheapest medicine, although sometimes it can be much more difficult to implement than simple acts of prohibition. We have to blame the bloggers, the acquaintances, the magazines and the press, the people who sit with the power and when many, especially those who reach the young, but also the common people, you and me, we who put out pictures of the summer body, the fitness body or the cardboard body. We have to learn to go an extra round, have our own ethical weather-various poster. Why do I put this out? Can the caption or the video be misinterpreted or misguided? Can it or will it be harmful? For young people who have grown up with technology like a sort of sixth sense, with mobile and social media around them as an eternal social arena for performance and presentation, prevention is particularly important. They need help interpreting what they see around them. We need skilled and skilled teachers in all disciplines – in Norwegian and in the social field, so that they see through poor language, advertising and sales and learn source criticism, and in ethics and life views, so that they are better able to reflect. We need more teachers with technological skills who can show how people trick with pictures and movies to make reality look like an adventure. Last, but not least: we need those that young people can talk to when it gets too tough, or when they get insecure. We'll probably need nurses, or, as we hear now, it's called "health nurses." I hope the name change leads to more men also choosing to apply for the study. The Norwegian student mass is fifty-fifty, and it's time the boys also found some good role models to talk to about the most difficult things. The left has proposed to give health sisters a more gender-neutral title earlier, and I am very pleased that the matter is now being raised again. Body press is a complicated phenomenon because so many of us contribute to it by adding just the filtered and polished sides of ourselves to social media. At the same time, we consume what is served by those who get and take more gaping space. We end up in an unrealistic, self-centered and unhealthy world. But as so many times before, it's only knowledge and prevention that is a good answer, and the good answer. And that's a better answer than more censorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e871	There's both a lot of singing and talk about summer body right now. Now I'm not in the most vulnerable group for the summer body press, but it's impossible to avoid the talk, the music and the media that's about what it takes to achieve the perfect summer body. Fortunately, there is an increasing awareness of what this body focus does to us, especially our children and young people. A few weeks ago, the Christian People's Party was with and arranged a mini-seminar here on the house – and thank you to the Right who took the initiative – that took up more problematic aspects of this development. While the biggest problem when my children grew up was that leaves that produced unrealistic model bodies, we now see a development in social media and applications that have a much larger scale and that also require the attention of children and young people today in a completely different way. The Christian People's Party has long been concerned that, as a legislative assembly, we have a responsibility for what children and young people are subjected to by body pressure through advertising and the media. In the past, we have made proposals such as: is on the labelling of retouched advertising. Our program says: ‘Children and young people must be given knowledge so that they can relate to advertising and the press. Strong commercial influence on children and young people may adversely affect their self-understanding and identity. It is therefore important to restrict advertising directly to children. KrF will also introduce labelling of reticent advertising to prevent young people from developing unrealistic and unhealthy body and beauty ideals.» The Christian People's Party is concerned about this because we are concerned about the health and quality of life of children and young people. We know that their self-esteem and mental health are often related to body and appearance. Of course, this is a challenge that we have to face in several arenas, both in the family, in the school, in the churches and in the sports, but it is also something that politicians have to deal with and do with. That is why the Christian People's Party will support the proposals contained in the SV's draft representative, and I would like to thank Mr SV for promoting this draft representative. It has been particularly important for us in the committee reading of the proposals to draw attention to the need to focus specifically on the new platforms on which children and young people are most present. The Christian People's Party will continue to fight for children and young people's freedom to be themselves and not be subjected to body pressure in all channels. We hope the Storing will be on it and take some steps in the right direction today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e886	I want to start by giving honor to SV, who has had an involvement in this field for many years. I am pleased that there is a debate on this field, not least in Stortinget, and I am concerned that we should find measures that work. We see more of a body pressure now through the fact that children and young people live large parts of their lives on social media, new platforms. It ticks in Snapchat and Instagram images of people they see as their great role models, people they want to look like. That's why this pressure on how to look, on how to look, is much stronger than it might have done before. We also see from different research that poor self-image and body pressure are linked to poor mental health and mental problems in children and young people. It's a problem we have to tackle. Then we have to look at what action it is that works. Where the left-hand side likes to look at censorship and ban as the best solution, it's like here that simple isn't always the best. What is now happening on the new platforms is that the blogs, the influences, circumvent the marketing law. You avoid being taken by supervision because you don't mark images, for example. Here you put out stories, you put out pictures from your everyday life, where you tell how happy you've become, what clinic you've gone to, and what you've done with cosmetic surgery. It's not always that easy for a child or for a youth who struggles with low self-esteem, who may not be part of the gang, to distinguish between reality and fiction. We heard that yesterday. We heard strong stories yesterday at the Round Table conference we had, to which the Workers' Party referred, and to which they were invited, but to which the Workers' Party unfortunately did not. I think it would have been useful for them to be there, because there were the blogs themselves. There were those who are responsible for the networks, and who have also been involved in lifting these rosabloggers out of the picnic room and into a million-dollar business. It's a billion-dollar industry that has evolved and that contributes to diversity. Of course, it is in many ways fundamentally positive that many, both young and adults, are getting inspiration, following their role models or their idols closely through social media, but we should also be aware that it has a negative side. What we see, and as we also saw at the meeting yesterday when we heard strong stories, is how much influence these role models have on the lives of many of the young people. It was scary, very scary. That is why I am pleased that we have researchers with us in the work that the government has started, and that we have with us the Consumer and Media Authority. We're going to sit down with the Minister of Public Health and see how we're going to follow up on all the good suggestions we got yesterday. The adoption of censorship, the adoption of bans – I don't know if it adds anything to us anymore, because it's so easy to bypass this on social media. That's why we need to look at the measures together with the industry, along with the networks, along with the blogs, along with advertisers. They have to take ethical responsibility. They have to think about young people and children sitting and following them. When we hear that young teenagers are saving their money to take their first surgical operation, when you spend all your confirmation money on a surgical procedure because you're convinced that you're getting so much happier, we're going in the wrong direction. Now it is also about attitudes. It's about cultures. Here we have to work at school, with the parents, but also with the young people themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e899	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e904	This right-hand rule has a clear refusal of action. Time and again, we see that where the Labour Party is clearly responsible and money, the right-wing government refuses to take concrete action that will improve the conditions for children and young people, and often shifts responsibility from itself to others. The government voted in favour of strengthening the regulation of a beauty industry that contributes to self-esteem and leads many young people into despair and disease because they do not fulfill the beauty ideal of a commercial industry — or billions of industry, as the Council of State also said. Today, the government is likely to suffer a defeat. My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State guarantee that measures against body pressure will be followed up in the next budget as a separate measure, and is the Council of State satisfied that the government will once again be dragged after the hair of this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e909	I am pleased that we have a government that wants to create change, and that believes that those changes are best done through cooperation with the actors, the field and the industries. The easiest thing in this field for the Workers' Party has been to propose bans, regulations and censorship all the way, but it does not take us any further. That is why it is good that you have now, for the first time, sat down with bloggers, influencers, industry and social media actors to discuss what is going on – together with public authorities, together with supervision. Instead of promising an exact date for presenting our proposals, I can promise that, contrary to what the Workers' Party has ever done to this industry, we will, together with the actors, make proposals that will enable us to improve the daily lives of children and young people, so that they do not live with the body pressure they are subjected to today's ethical responsibility than they have done. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e914	The president reminds us that when the clubs go to the table, it means that the time for speaking is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e919	Rightly, much of the discussion has been about the blogs and the influence of the influences on the body pressure. I want to focus on another group of actors that I think is a bit interesting to address. Had it not been for the media, it would not have been for reality series, some of these bloggers would not have had such exposure. Many of the most popular people to follow in social media are people who are exposed via the media. Now it has become so that in reality series — at least in some of the most popular for youth — it is among the exceptions that girls, for example, are is not a cosmetic operation. I think that we also have to look at this, and I wonder if the minister shares my view on it – whether she might be willing to discuss this further with the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e924	I'm already in the process of doing that. I have discussed this much with the Minister of Culture, and it is therefore also one of her supervision, namely the Media Regulatory Board, that is now going to sit down with me, the Minister of Public Health and Consumer Protection, who is performing supervision related to violations of the marketing law. We are very well going on, and I am happy to see how we can follow up all the suggestions we have received from the industry and from the actors, and which they – who live in this sphere – believe works. We're busy with that. We have the same goal, and then we have, like parties on the Storing, a little different approximation. We don't think ban and censorship is the only answer to everything that is difficult and challenging in this society. What's important to us now is we're talking about this, we're talking to our young people, and we're strengthening our sexual education at school, so that a normal body is accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e931	The attitude of the centre party is also that there are not only rules and bans that make a society better. As far as the media is concerned, they have editorial freedom, and it is not so easy neither to use the Consumer Protection Authority nor to check out rules there. It's a little bit about raising the awareness of the media itself and changing attitudes there as well. I know that the more money is made, the more freak show there is with both cosmetic operations and other issues regarding the «castes» in various reality series. I don't know if it's well received to talk a lot to the media about this, but I hope so. And I hope the minister will be progressive also in discussing media attitudes, especially in the commercial sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e938	This government is concerned with freedom of expression. The content published on the various platforms is also widely protected by freedom of expression. At the same time, we have a marketing law, as I mentioned, which is very easy to circumvent because you share personal descriptions. With regard to the responsibility of media actors for this, I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Culture – who is also very committed to this – is concerned about talking about this with the various actors. I am most concerned about what I can do in my field – both as Minister of Consumer Affairs and as Minister of Children and Youth in this country – and that is how we can direct the industry towards taking greater ethical responsibility for the stories with which they affect children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e945	In this proposal for a representative, SV proposes to prohibit the commercial marketing of cosmetic interventions, because it contributes to body pressure and poor mental health among young people. From the right-wing parties we have been met with counter-arguments that this will not be implemented due to EEA legislation. However, EEA legislation has opened up the possibility for Norway to prohibit advertising for both alcohol and tobacco. The reason for this is the damage caused by this advertisement. Why can't the same argument be used in terms of body pressure, when the third most common cause of death among young girls in Europe is eating disorders? Does the Council believe that body pressure is not serious enough for us to regulate the commercial marketing of cosmetic interventions in the same way as we regulate tobacco and alcohol advertising?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e950	I'm of the opinion that body pressure can be serious, because in many cases it leads to depressive reactions in children and adolescents. It's also research that tells us that it has a connection with mental disorders. I get worried when I look at the suicide statistics. I'm worried that boys top that statistics. There is a need to raise the challenges and problems that boys face, not least by making health sisters or nurses, as it may be called, more accessible to boys by having more men work like that. Again: I am of the opinion that there are not only bans and regulations that will address this problem. This is just as much about working with other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e958	If we are to follow the principle argument from the right on this issue, one might just as well remove the ban on advertising tobacco and alcohol – but leave it alone. Another thing we've been given a majority, and on which the entire committee stands together, is that the government should include measures against body pressure in the forthcoming escalation plan for the mental health of young people. Therefore, I wonder what kind of action the Council of State sees may be among the most important when it comes to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e965	As the representative of Oberstegård knows, we had a big recording meeting yesterday. The right has also taken the initiative here at Stortinget. We've got a lot of ideas about what we can do to follow up this work, and to put in measures that will help reduce the pressure on young people. An important instrument is the escalation plan for mental health. In that work, I will look together with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Public Health at what we can do. But it's also important to look at how we can strengthen sexual education in school, so that you get a conscious relationship with what is a normal body, and what surgical interventions and cosmetic operations can lead to. Having self-confidence and being sure that you are good enough is also an important message, not only from the school side, but it is also something for which we parents have to take responsibility. In addition, young people need to help with this and take responsibility for each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e970	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e977	I think it's positive that the representatives are busy fighting body pressure. Body pressure is one of the factors that can affect the mental health of children, and mental health is one of the most important areas of activity for this government. It's fixed in the Yeluia statement, and I think the Council of State has done a good job of bringing together the industry. In August 2017, the government presented Mestre for life – a strategy for good mental health for children. It also deals with the use of social media by children. Today, a majority support the inclusion of measures to combat body pressure, as well as other measures to promote a positive self-esteem, in the child and youth mental health escalation plan. The SV proposal has put an important issue on the agenda, but, as my colleague, Tage Pettersen, has explained, the measures are less accurate to today's young people and in today's world. Today’s young people are digital residents of a global social media world, where international influencers are the biggest challenge in normalising body expressions, it is difficult to live up to. In its comments, the parties to the Government include, inter alia: suggested limiting the possibility for blogs to share discount codes with their companion – codes for cosmetic interventions – so that advertising should have a clear consignor and that information is required to be quality assured by healthcare professionals. We believe it is an unfortunate mix of roles if bloggers and influencers promote a body expression they themselves serve on. By clarifying the legislator, combined with the strengthening of the powers of the Consumer Protection Authority, which was introduced in January of this year, these representatives believe that consumer supervision will be more able to intervene and prevent such advertising from bloggers and influencers than it is today. But the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party choose to go further, and they see no other solutions than to propose to ban the advertising of a fully legitimate industry. The right agrees that marketing should be tightened up, but we do not think it is a good idea to illegalize advertising by a fully legitimate industry. I am one of those who are concerned about what youth culture we have in Norway, and I record that we have a variety of expressions and expressions in the youth culture. This is also evident in children’s media habits. Young people, who are digital residents, often choose which influences to follow. They are not passive recipients of impressions, as claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e990	First, I would just like to say that we are drawing our proposal, proposal No. 8, because it is taken care of, among others. proposal No 1st@item: inlistbox This proposal is therefore concerned with the various types of action plan. Then I could now have made a statement about a division of responsibilities where the opposition promotes action on the Stortinget, while the government is holding round table conferences. But instead, I would rather boast to the Council of State that she has flagged this matter out loud, both in an equality policy statement and elsewhere. We appreciate that very much in SV. Instead, I mentioned that in 2010 I was involved in setting up the Youth for Retired Advertising network. But this is a fight that goes even further back than that. I know that Socialist Youth in the 1990s had a campaign under the title It won't be revolution as long as girls just count calories, like, among other things. No Marte Thorkildsen was on. So this is a matter we have promised and been busy for a long time, and therefore we are very happy that this has also become a big issue on the agenda now. There I think we should thank everyone who contributes to it. So to the issue of regulation: now it's like young people themselves point to the advertising industry, the beauty industry, as one of the most important causes of body pressure, among other things. in the study that Press delivered earlier in the spring. We in SV take young people seriously, we want to study their concerns, and not least we take the causes of body pressure. I fully agree that prevention is important, but the very earliest stage of prevention is to address the causes. And when the advertising industry is identified as one of the most important reasons, it is good prevention policy to implement regulations on what kind of marketing we allow in this country. Further to the principle: As I also mentioned in the line change, it is in this country that we accept regulation when advertising harms people. That is why we have legislation in this country. I think the vast majority of people in this Chamber agree that it is a good idea to ban advertising on tobacco and alcohol. I don't understand why you can't follow the same principle and also have stricter regulation in advertising that destroys young people's mental health, because both physical and mental health are important. Then you have to think about both. Essentially, I'm very happy with what we get the majority for today. We have also made proposals for an action plan that will take all the other measures that are not about bans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1005	The representative, Freddy André, drew the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1010	First, I have to say that when the Council of State again uses an article to tell us that the only working party or opposition is occupied with is censorship and prohibition, and at the same time says that the marketing law is very easy to circumvent, among other things. in this case, I would like to ask some questions. In proposal No 3 it says: «The government asks the government to propose a amendment to Section 21 of the Marketing Act, which regulates good marketing practices for children, in order to prevent advertising aimed at children in general, and to discourage pressure on young people in particular.» I cannot quite see that this is a proposal which is just about censorship and ban. I wonder what's wrong with the proposal. I can also refer to proposal No. 7 where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the enforcement of Chapter 4 of the Marketing Act on the special protection of children, inter alia, by mandated by the Consumer Authority to reduce harmful and body-fixed advertising and so-called restitution apps aimed at children and young people.’ I wonder again: what is wrong with this proposal when it is that the marketing law is easy to circumvent? That is one of the reasons why these very proposals have been promoted. I think the Council of State has many good arguments to do something about this matter, but yet she cannot support the most important, and perhaps best, concrete measures. That might be the difference between the opposition and the position in this case. Finally, I want to say: the council boasts that she belongs to a powerful government, but in many gender issues, in matters that would improve the situation for children and young people, they are drawn after, and I expect that will happen in this case as well. I expect the Council of State may now ask for the word to tell us about everything that is bad and wrong and looked with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1033	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1049	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1058	The Committee has examined Prop. 62 L for 2017-2018, on amendments to the Law of the Court of Justice etc. The Ministry of Justice and Defence shall promote in the proposal proposals for amendments to the Law of the Court of Justice, the Law of Disputes, the Law of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Fees. It is proposed to provide a basis for electronic communications with courts, as well as a regulatory framework for the compulsory use of certain forms of communication. Furthermore, rules are proposed by the Court of Justice and the Criminal Procedures Act to equate electronic signatures with paper signatures. It opens up the possibility to equate electronic service with postal service and to allow for the provision of a call for proposals to be made on a website. In addition, it is proposed to provide access to the rescheduling of absence judgments issued in the Conciliation Council. This means that the case may be re-examined in the Conciliation Board and that it will no longer be necessary to bring an action before the Court of First Instance in order to have the decision reviewed. In order to reduce the risk of falsely declared absences, it is proposed, inter alia, to: to impose an obligation on the Conciliation Board to verify the correctness of the addressee’s address. It is also proposed that half a legal fee be paid upon request for such a refresher. A new provision is also proposed in the Law of the Court of Justice on security controls. The reasons for today's requirement of written communication with the courts for security, etc., must also be taken into account by the use of new solutions. It is important that these changes are followed up by the Ministry and that, if they do not produce the desired effect, it should be considered to reintroduce the acknowledgement of receipt for the service of the Conciliation Council documents or other measures to reduce the number of wrongly settled settlement judgments. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, sees that the digitisation process in the courts could lead to more efficiency and that expenditure would then be reduced. Nevertheless, the majority would recall that a profit in terms of efficiency and cost savings cannot be expected until digitisation projects in the courts have been implemented and started. The majority support the proposal to launch electronic service, as it will help to streamline the courts, but emphasises that not everyone has the capacity to use electronic solutions and that it is therefore necessary to assess whether it is appropriate to send the messages by letter. The Labour Party and SV believe that the courts have for a long time slowed down the implementation of digital solutions. Electronic signature and the use of the portal for the delivery of case documents make sense both to make document processing more efficient and to make document processing safer. These parties support, on this basis, the proposals for electronic signature and the portal for actors, as regards changes both to the Criminal Procedures Act and to the Law of the Court of Justice. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the Workers' Party and SV believe that there has been a weakness in the fact that settlement decisions have not had the possibility to refresh. Although the decisions have been legally considered to be so-called nullities, this is not known to most people who get such a decision. Consequently, the Courts have been charged with decisions which were due to errors in the proceedings. This is not an efficient operation and has led to a lot of uncertainty in those who have been affected by such errors. These lots therefore support the amendment of this Regulation. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for a good work on the matter, and I would like to put forward the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1086	With this amendment of the law, we facilitate increased electronic case flow in and around our courts. The legislative amendment implies an obligation to communicate electronically through the Actor portal for lawyers and lawyers. Mandatory use will take place gradually, and only once the Court of Justice has developed the portal will several categories of cases be added for mandatory use. The change will make working processes more efficient and reduce time and administrative costs. Electronic signatures shall be equivalent to hand-written signatures, even in the case of the signing of the legal instrument, legal settlements and written decisions of the court. Furthermore, it will be possible to establish a regulatory framework for a secure technical solution for electronic communications. We record that the number of absenteeism sentences in the settlement board is very high. From 2017 on, 65 p.m. dismissed as absenteeism. This means that it has been necessary to look at the rules of the ministry, and we support the ministry in that there is now an additional round in the conciliatory councils to check the address of the respondent against the public register and against the address register of the Post. If this does not have the desired effect, we believe that it is necessary to consider reintroducing the acknowledgement of receipt or other measures that will reduce the number of false judgments handed down in the Conciliation Council. For the time being, we think that the response with an address check is sufficient. In addition, it is now possible for the individual to have his/her case refreshed. This means that you do not take legal action to get the matter tried again. It's an important valve. These changes facilitate a more efficient flow of information and interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1097	It is good that work on digitisation has been done well in the courts, and that it is now better to facilitate an electronic case flow. There are changes that can provide more efficient working processes and reduce administrative costs in the long term. Nevertheless, it is worth pointing out that savings in terms of efficiency and cost reduction cannot be expected until the digitisation projects in the courts have been implemented and started, as the rapporteur also pointed out. It seems that the government is currently taking advantage of the digitisation process before it can actually come, which has expressed concrete concerns, such as: during the Committee's mission to Salten District Court in Bodø. It must also be clear that, even though the rights of the teammen and the largest rights of things are now being digitised, all courts, including the smaller ones, must be digitised before full profits can be made. The centre party is very clear that there must not be a digital distinction between the larger and the smaller courts. It is very good that electronic service now becomes possible, which could provide better guarantees that the service will arrive at the recipient. It is very positive that the risk of people being summoned to the Conciliation Board without being aware of it itself is now being reduced. At the same time, it has to be assessed whether it would not still be appropriate to send messages by letter, as there are still many residents in Norway who cannot or do not want to use electronic solutions. As of today, a high number of absence sentences are passed in the Conciliation Board. The Conciliation Board will now have a statutory obligation to check the stated address of the respondent before the announcement is sent out. It is very good, but the Central Party also believes that we need to look at how this system works and, if necessary, consider the receipt also for the Conciliation Council documents if it does not have the desired effect. Today there are very many examples that the defendant does not know a case until it has been submitted to the Conciliation Board. The acknowledgement of receipt could improve legal certainty, improve trust in the judicial system and avoid problems that may have a significant impact on individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1108	I am pleased that an overall judicial committee has supported the Government's proposal on changes to the Law of Justice, the Law of Disputes, the Criminal Procedures Act and the Law on Fees, among others. facilitating electronic case flow. I have noted in particular the Committee's opinions relating to the absence of judgments in the Conciliation Board. The Ministry will follow developments in this area closely in the future and will consider several measures if the proposals made in this legislative proposal do not have the desired effect. The government wants to further facilitate electronic case flow in and with the courts, which will increase the efficiency of the work processes and reduce the length of proceedings and administrative costs. Electronic case flow will also increase the quality and accessibility of cases before the Court. The Government proposes to legislate for electronic communications with the courts where the law requires written consent. In this context, a regulatory helmet is also proposed for the mandatory use of certain forms of communication, such as: The actor's portal. Furthermore, the government proposes to equate electronic signatures with paper signatures, both in the court and criminal proceedings laws. The proposals require the use of technically sound solutions, but the government has not found it appropriate to regulate further the requirements of the various technical solutions or the technical solution or platform to be chosen. The Government proposes to equate electronic service with a postal service. This will contribute to a more efficient and cost-effective service to resolution councils as well. The Conciliation Councils are in a special position as regards both the number of hearings and the number of decisions, as compared with the General Courts, the Councils of Conflict and other dispute resolution bodies. In 2017, the Conciliation Board received a total of 77 265 cases. There were 49 607 cases of absence. The rules on service must therefore be as effective as possible. At the same time, emphasis should be placed on preventing settlement councils from making errors during the proceedings. In particular, the government is concerned with reducing the number of wrongly reported absences in the Conciliation Council and strengthening the legal certainty of the parties to these cases. The Government proposes to introduce access to the rescheduling of absence judgments issued by the Conciliation Council. The purpose is to avoid a party having to take legal action in respect of the subject matter in order to have a potentially falsely declared absence. The right to refresh will strengthen legal certainty for counterparties who, for various reasons, have received a judgment against them without having been able to challenge them. The government also proposes other measures to reduce the number of absenteeism sentences and strengthen legal certainty in these cases. Proposals to make electronic service equivalent to postal service and to impose obligations on the conciliatory councils to verify routinely the addressee’s address against the public register or electronic address register of Post Norway AS are important steps to contribute to this. The Conciliation Councils must provide the parties with sound guidance on the rules and procedures of the proceedings and other formal matters so that the parties are able to take care of their interests in the matter. Questions concerning the implementation of the acknowledgement of receipt were carefully assessed during the work on the proposition. By instituting electronic service with postal service, implementing access to the refresher of absence sentences and imposing obligations on the conciliatory councils to check the respondent’s address against the public register or the electronic address register of the Post Norway AS, the government considers that re-establishing the acknowledgement of receipt is neither timely nor necessary in order to strengthen the legal certainty of the parties to proceedings before the Conciliation Council. In the context of improving the efficiency and digitisation of the public sector, the government also proposes to allow the provision of notices on a website. Finally, I mention that the proposition also contains proposals for a provision on security controls in the court. Several Norwegian courts have established security controls in the form of body scanners, physical visits, etc. The Government proposes to introduce a new provision on security controls in the courts to provide a clear legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1145	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1154	I would like to thank the Committee for its work on this matter and I think it is very positive that it is promoted by an overall committee. The case proposes changes to the rules on the admission and re-use of explanations in the court. The aim of the changes is primarily to facilitate the testing of a system in which explanations from the jurisdiction can be reused by the recording of explanations in the appeal court, both in criminal matters and in civil matters. There is already an obligation to accept explanations from parties, witnesses and experts during the main civil proceedings and it is proposed that this obligation should be extended to apply also during the appeal proceedings in civil matters. It is proposed that such admission should now also be taken during the main and appeal proceedings in criminal matters. Nevertheless, there are a number of courts which do not have audio and video recording equipment and cannot be recorded if no equipment is available. This applies both in civil matters and in criminal matters. As of today, there has been a sampling system with sound and video recordings, but not with the re-use of the recordings for subsequent negotiations. Now you want to try out a system where explanations can be reused for appeal proceedings in court, instead of taking up new explanations. An overall committee is in favour of extending the trial project with audio and video recordings for re-use and the aim is for all courts of the country to be able to do so. In 2006–10, insulted in criminal proceedings — a new perspective and new rights — it was reported that insults and witnesses have to explain themselves to the courts several times. It was already proposed that the audio and video recordings of explanations given at first instance should be played off during any appeal proceedings. Also in the jury’s investigation of the issue in NOU 2011: 13 it was proposed that the play-off of explanation may be carried out when a new explanation would involve a disproportionate burden and when the court considers it appropriate for the purposes of the information provided by the case. The Criminal Procedures Committee has proposed that an explanation given in court or in an organised hearing should, as a general rule, be used in order to replace, in whole or in part, oral and direct hearings in the case where there is no objection to proper information. The majority of the Committee has expressed support for testing such a scheme, including: in order to reduce the burden on offended persons and witnesses who have to undergo severe legal proceedings and are subjected to a burden by having to explain themselves repeatedly in different parts of a judicial process through several instances. If this proves to be successful, it will also be able to streamline and simplify the procedures in the courts. It could provide legal certainty for the individual who is a party to a case, and transparency and publicity around the legal proceedings. The majority believe that it is positive to provide a basis for examining a mechanism whereby explanations admitted to the first instance under detailed rules and in designated courts may be played by and replaced by repeated explanations in subsequent instances. It is also worth noting that the Committee is clear that the re-use of admission to court should not be at the expense of information requirements and a proper material basis for judgment. Finally, I would like to point out that the Central Party is clear that the changes that are now being made to admissions at court meetings become the main rule, also require that it be followed up with financial resources for this in the courts. This applies both to the installation of equipment and to training in the use of such equipment. In order for this to provide real benefits both for legal certainty and for resource use, adequate funding must be provided. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1179	We don't have much more to do from the Workers' Party's side. We are some in the cause and thought that the case spokesperson presented the matter in a brilliant way. I think it's worth noting that this is an important matter for people, precisely because of what the case-speaker referred to when it's due to bring down the tax it is for those who have to repeat the explanation saying several times in court. Because we're very positive about this. The Labour Party has waited a while for the government to follow up the report from the Criminal Procedures Selection. We hope that the government will soon do so. We don't agree with the way an argument against the criminal trial selection's proposal to write down the explanation where recording is not possible. That's because one in the proposition, and also in the comments from the Right and the Advance Party, only leans on an economic argument. We think that argument alone is not good enough. We're going to follow up that proposal later, but we also think it's time for the government to follow up the report from the criminal trial committee in Stortinget as well. Otherwise, we're some people in the business and think it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1190	It is Tromsø who has been given the probation for sound and video recording in court, and it has been granted a total of 2 million. kr for this purpose. For the time being, as previously mentioned here by the representative of the Central Party, only the recording function has been tested. Now I am very pleased that the court administration wants to go a step further and try to play out the recording of the rights of the jury in the law of the team. The experiences that come from Tromsø now will be very interesting to follow. There is no doubt that this way of providing evidence in appeal proceedings could make it much easier for offended people and witnesses to criminal proceedings. It is often felt as a burden for the offended to stand in court, and that they must explain themselves repeatedly. Many people experience the meeting with the judiciary as a double offense. So we also know that the memory is broken and changes over time. Recording and playback of previous explanations is an opportunity that will be able to remedy our memory. An explanation shall be capable of being given in whole or in part before the court by the play-off of organised hearings or by explanation given to the lower court if there is no objection to the provision of sound information. We are well on our way to a criminal trial that is less burdensome to insults and witnesses. This is what we've been talking about for 20 years. Nevertheless, the use of admission to court must not override the requirement that the case be sufficiently well informed. The threshold for additional interrogations must be low. It is therefore important that we facilitate the collection of additional interrogations. We therefore point out that additional hearings of witnesses can take place through either Skype, videoconferencing or telephone. Then it will be up to the right to find out whether it is proper and appropriate in the individual case. This is also supported in relation to the use of silage play in appeals to the Law of Lawyers and the Supreme Court. It is important to clarify that playback is an opportunity, not an obligation. In order to ensure effective treatment of the process of sieving, playback should only be used where the court considers it necessary. In addition, we support the ministry's position that explanations should not be taken if not recorded. That's what we think is becoming too resource-intensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1205	I am pleased that the Justice Committee has joined the Government's proposal on changes to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Dispute Law. The proposal is twofold and applies to the obligation of the Court of First Instance to make admissions at court meetings and to the second court to play these admissions. The main objective of the proposal is to facilitate the testing of a system in which the admission of explanations given to the district court can be played instead of the making of oral explanations in the appeal court. The Law of Disputes, which entered into force in 2008, imposed an obligation on the courts to record explanations given during the main proceedings, provided that the right of access is equipped and that the explanations are not written down. The government is now proposing that courts that have facilities for this should take account of the explanations also in criminal proceedings. At the same time, the Government proposes to extend the admission obligation to cover any appeal. The advantage of taking part in court meetings is many. Recordings document the case, which strengthens legal certainty. Furthermore, there is reason to believe that the certainty that admission is made strengthens the actors in the court and counteracts undesirable procedural behaviour. Recordings can thus have a disciplining function that can help concentrate and streamline case resolution. The government proposes not to follow up the criminal trial committee’s proposal to write down explanations in the absence of admission. The point of view is, inter alia, the following: justified by the resource situation in the courts. Only a small proportion of the courts have facilities to record today. Therefore, the legal nature of such an obligation will have considerable consequences and lead to longer court proceedings, which will completely undermine judicial proceedings. This must also be seen in view of the fact that 29 out of 63 District Courts were outside one or more of the objectives Stortinget has set for average proceedings in the courts in 2017. In this connection, I also mention that the procedural laws in any case open the way for explanations to be written down if necessary. When explanations given to the court are ensured in the event of admission, it is appropriate to consider the impact this should have on the way in which we conduct any appeals. Since 2008, Swedish courts have practised a system whereby explanations taken up in the lowest court are played by instead of oral explanations being given in the appeal. I have got the impression that the experience with this scheme is good. The criminal trial committee has proposed rules according to the Swedish system, and the proposal was well received when it was being consulted. In the autumn of 2016, testing of audio and video recordings was started in Nord-Troms District Court and in Hålogaland Law of Law. These courts have taken up civil and criminal cases, but the admissions made in the courts have not been played out by oral explanations of the law. The State budget for 2018 allocated funds for the continuation and possible extension of the sample scheme. On this basis, the government proposes to facilitate the extension of the trial to include the playback of recordings instead of oral evidence in appeal proceedings. A scheme that adds up to the reuse of explanations is beneficial in several ways. The person who has explained himself to the right once and who feels that it is a burden to have to explain himself again about the same conditions can be saved for this load. There is a step towards a less burdensome judicial process for insults and witnesses, as the majority of the Judicial Committee also points out. Another advantage is that timely explanations are ensured, and that the one explaining loses the opportunity to adapt his explanation between the courts. This assurance of near-event explanations could lead to better informed appeals. The aim is to provide a basis for assessing how sound and video recording should be organised in the courts in the long term. The testing scheme is expected to have a bearing on the future nature of the workflow between the tribunal and the law, in particular in the follow-up to the investigation into the criminal justice commission. Another side of the proposal is that it facilitates the participation of appeal bodies by lower bodies when assessing whether an appeal should be refused in appeal proceedings. This strengthens the basis for the decision in the appeal. Because playing in any case will require resources, it is suggested that there is a possibility of playing when the court considers it necessary – not an obligation. Finally, I mention that there must be detailed rules on the inclusion and re-use of explanations in the regulation, and that work has been started to bring about the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1239	State councils include the follow-up of the criminal trial selection in their post, so I wonder when we can expect the state councils to follow up the report from the criminal trial selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1244	I can't give a deadline for that. There are several things we consider there. It's both if the law as a whole is to be promoted, and even if it might be right to take out some of these things and treat them separately. We haven't completed those assessments in the department yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1249	I thank you for your answer. Can the Council of State respond to whether this is something he will give priority to at least during the year, or is it telling us that we do not see a follow-up to this report until 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1255	I will not set a deadline, but I can stress and promise that this is a priority. It has a high priority, but it's extremely resource-intensive. It's hard things, and it's a very big and comprehensive audit that's going to be done. I think it's very important that we in any case base quality rather than rush through with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1262	I don't think we can characterize it as urgent when it comes to this issue, but when it comes to the legal situation in general, the government has a considerable responsibility for the resource situation in which the courts are in. Both in the government party setting and in the state council post, it is claimed that it is because of resource use and economics that one does not see any possibility to follow up the proposal of the criminal trial selection to draw down an explanation about a non-user recording. I wonder, does the Council of State see any other counter-argument to that proposal than economics?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1269	There are two reasons. One is that having audio recordings gives a quality that in itself is good and therefore is preferable. The time you don't have it, it's more of a resource issue, as the representative himself stressed. If you wish, you should also follow such a proposal with money to the court, or you must accept that it will take longer to deal with cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1274	So the chord change is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1292	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1301	In this case, the government proposes to amend the police law to allow access to time-limited point-arming by vulnerable objects. The proposal also makes some changes to the Police Register Act, as it appears in the resolution. The proposition does not change the current principle that Norwegian police should, as a general rule, be unarmed. That's what I think is important, and I think it's right. In this way, the government follows up the position of the Armed Selection, where the recommendation was not to introduce the general armaments of the Norwegian police, which we in the Labour Party are particularly pleased that the government, and perhaps especially the Progress Party, has listened to. To clarify the matter: This is not about the opportunity to arm, but about the time limit for a dot-arming. All parties to the committee, with the exception of SV, are behind the option. I assume that SV will do something for his own vision, in his own articles. The Labour Party believes that there are sufficiently good arguments for why it may be necessary to allow time-limited point-arming, for example. Oslo Airport, which is used as an example in the proposition. I also notice what it says there: that Oslo Airport is the only airport in the world with such a passenger base that has no armed police presence. The committee was recently in London. The government also refers to the United Kingdom’s proposition, which can often be somewhat similar to Norway. There we got right that they had armed guard at strategic point. It is decisive for the Workers' Party that the decision on time-limited point-arming by vulnerable objects is taken politically. Although the decision-making competence must and must lie with the police, I, as the case-speaker, would stress the importance that consent to this must be given by the Ministry of Justice. This has also been well-answered by the Council of State by letter to the Committee. Vulnerable objects – what is it? There may be airports or other vulnerable points in society, but it's also very clear that we don't talk about cities, and we don't talk about urban areas. It is also important to stress that one can't have so many points close that one actually ends up with some kind of general weaponry – I will give a strong expression to that. I think the criteria for armament are important in this matter. Armament criteria must be set as necessary to provide adequate protection for the objects. Necessity criteria mean that the police first need to assess whether there are measures other than weapons necessary to provide adequate security. Examples include physical security measures, restraints, etc. The working party believes that it will be necessary to evaluate and derive experience from this time-limited point-arming of vulnerable objects, and suggests, as you can see from the setting, that one should come back to Storting every year with the status development of point-arming. I've done some research and see that the proposal we're making today, probably won't get any plurals. Therefore, the Labour Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1324	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1329	Lene Wagschlid presented the proposition in an excellent way. In recent years, we have seen several changes in the legislation relating to police and arms. The background for the changes is that we want to facilitate a police force that is capable of responding quickly to sharp incidents to protect citizens and ward off attacks. In 2013, the gun instructions were changed, so the police were given easier access to store their weapons in a car. So the threat arose strongly in 2014, and in November the police were armed in their daily service – first for three months, and then the permit was renewed eight times. Furthermore, the police were armed at Oslo Airport for three months in November 2017, and a new extension decision is still in force today. This practice shows that there has been a need for police to be more armed, especially in vulnerable places like our largest airport. At Oslo Airport, the police are at risk of having to travel large distances to arm themselves in the event of a critical incident. An unarmed police at the airport provides poor response time and poor security if a perpetrator is not immediately unharmed. On the other hand, a firm armed police force on the Gardermo can stop and reduce the magnitude of an incident much faster. In view of recent events at airports in Europe, we see that these vulnerable objects also need to be better secured in Norway. We're seeing permanently armed police at airports around the world, and there's no reason for us not to have the same thing with us, as the situation is. The proposal we are discussing today does not mean that Norwegian police are being armed. This means that the Norwegian police are to be armed in some places, so that they do not apply for renewal of the decision repeatedly. I think we need to trust the Norwegian police and their handling of weapons, and I think we need to trust the PST and their assessment of the threat picture. Norwegian police are among the most educated and trained in the world, and with regular handling of weapons they will also facilitate the maintenance of their skills. SV is the only party in the Judicial Committee that does not support the government's proposal on point-arming. I think SV should look to the reality we're facing. Fortunately, we have not yet experienced a critical situation at Gardermoen, but to wait until there may have been enormous damage, I find it irresponsible. I would like to point out again that this does not rock the fact that the police should generally be unarmed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1346	We live in a world that continues to make important progress and to move forward, but where also the threat picture around us develops quickly and presents new challenges. The beginning of this millennium was in many ways marked by the terrible terrorist attacks of 11 September, and afterward we experienced several attacks at vulnerable places in many of our European cities, both Madrid, London and elsewhere. The threat of terror has evolved very much. In recent years, we've seen a different kind of threat from IS than we're used to, but the characteristic has been that vulnerable places with a lot of people, like large collective nodes, are attractive targets for those who want to hurt us. It is important to protect these sites in order to manage critical situations that may arise. It is no secret that the government resigned from the Advancement Party and the Right in the last period had in its platform that general weapons were primarily wanted by the police. Unfortunately, there has not been a majority in Stortinget. During this period, therefore, this government comes with the proposal on point-of-arms to ensure that the police in the particularly vulnerable and vulnerable places where a lot of people are gathered, and which can therefore be attractive targets for those who will hurt us, are armed if the police consider this to be necessary. Only in the last two years have we seen more examples of such places being hit elsewhere in Europe. The Bataclan concert, the Ariana Grande concert last year and the Brussels airport are just a few of the many examples that show that, although the terrorist threat can go up and down – and fortunately, it has gone down somewhat in Norway, according to PST, as a result of many Norwegian Islamists being killed in the Syrian fighting – these are still places that are at risk. Our primary task as politicians and political leaders in this country is to ensure the security of the Norwegian people. I believe that this proposal improves the ability of the police to reduce damage and deal with dangerous situations if something occurs in particularly vulnerable places. I think the rapporteur explained well the content of the proposal, so I shall not go into it too much again. I just want to repeat that I am very pleased that the proposal for point-arming seems to have a majority, so that people can feel confident that the police have quick access to weapons if something dangerous should happen in particularly vulnerable places, as this proposal implies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1359	We don't have the general armament of the Norwegian police. We have a good system of so-called forward-looking storage, where, in practice, the police in most situations will have easy access to weapons if necessary. We live in a safe country in many ways, yet we must take care of terrorist threats and threats of serious criminal acts. Some places are these threats larger than other places, and I think it makes sense that today's Big City adopts a change in law that makes it possible to set time-limited weapons by vulnerable objects. This may apply, for example: some aerodromes and buildings which contain special institutions. Such point-armament will not be undermined by the principle that Norwegian police as a general rule should not be armed, and the Central Party supports the amendment of the law. We have a proposal that we ask the government to keep the Stortinget informed annually and in a proper way about the extent of police point-arming. This is what I expect to be followed up by the Minister of Justice, regardless of whether or not the proposal is given a number of figures, for all the discussions that have been taking place on the armaments of the Norwegian police in the last few years, to suggest that the development of point-armaments is also of interest to the country's top-ranking populace, here on the Storting. We in the Center Party see that this information does not need to be open to all the public. There is no need to expand details of all hedging measures for anyone. But we're sure that the government with a little bit of goodwill will find an annual opportunity to keep the laws oriented. It is in order to have a practical and expedient approach to this that in the Central Party in our proposal, we use the wording that the government is asked to keep the Storting orientated in its own way. There is a high quality of shooting the Norwegian police in relation to some police forces in other countries, but I would still like to remind you of the importance of good arms management for those who are to be armed, in order to secure the objects or buildings in question. There has been a hearing on the amendment, and the Norwegian Air Force has stated that they are concerned about the danger of the police being deprived of their weapons when armed at airports. This is a concern that I both hope and believe the police are taking seriously, because it is very important that the police's weapons cannot be misused to carry out criminal acts, again in places where we consider it extra important to have a high level of preparedness. Otherwise, I would like to thank the case spokesperson, Lene Wagschlid, for a good job in the matter, and I share the problems of the point-arming theme that she raised in her article. I take this into account the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1376	The representative Jenny Klinge has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1381	Thank you for having this debate, because it is an important debate. Thanks also for the recommendation I have received to clarify SV's vision. It is clear that SV wants to strengthen the Norwegian police force. We want to give them sufficient resources so that they can solve their different challenges with the least possible use of weapons. When I say it that way, it also means that SV is not against the police carrying weapons on their hips to protect us in different situations and in different places. It could be at airports, at railway stations, outside Stortinget, for that matter. So we're not against it. But we make two clear demands for so-called point-arming. Requirement number one must be based on a concrete threat analysis or information provided to the police, which indicates that there is a threat. A general threat picture with reference to the situation in France is in a way too vague to be able to grant that type of authorisation. The second requirement is that the weapon should not be permanent. We believe that when the threat is over – in other words, when the police have information that the threat is over – the weapon will be locked back into the cabinets and we will move to the normal situation, namely forward storage. The difference between SV and everyone else is that we want time-limited point-arming by vulnerable objects based on concrete information. None of these criteria are covered in the government's proposal in this case, and therefore we oppose it. I also perceive that the proposals in practice go a little further, for the Storting will today decide that the police from now on can carry weapons on their hips, even heavier weapons, as a machine gun, as a permanent solution, in places where the police themselves believe this is necessary. In reality, there is a very small difference between permanent point-arming of vulnerable objects and permanent general armaments. From the audience there will be no difference at least, because when the audience will meet the Norwegian police afterwards, there will be a police station carrying weapons. The police have no interest in patrolling in places if they do not have any kind of security interest. It'll be in places that the police have defined as vulnerable places. The police don't patrol for fun. So when the audience after this will meet the police, it will be a police force with guns. These are the same arguments against permanent general armaments as against permanent point-arming. It'll change the relationship between the police and the audience. The traditionally soft police we are committed to in Norway, with a focus on prevention and conflict resolution, will be replaced by a somewhat tougher police force, focusing on the use of power. Then I am very concerned that most of the tasks the police will face will be tasks they solve – and traditionally have solved – excellent without weapons. A more armed police force will solve more tasks with weapons than with no weapons. In fact, crime in Norway is falling. There is not necessarily a need for stronger powers, so it is not necessary to equip the police with more weapons, at a time when there is actually less need for them. Terrorism is often pointed out, and the representative Gulati was concerned about it, especially, and it refers to various events in Europe. But I ask Gulati and others who use this as arguments, study carefully the report of the Committee on Arms. Terrorism – and terrorist incidents – in Europe have actually decreased in the last 20 years. It is therefore not increasing, nor does PST report an increase in the risk of terrorism in Norway. It also confirms the representative Gulati in today's version of the Class struggle. The terror we've actually seen – bombs, machine guns in concert halls, trucks in crowds – is not a terror that necessarily a weapon on the hip of the police can prevent. When SV opposes this, it is not because we oppose the protection of certain vulnerable areas, but it must be based on a concrete threat and it must be time-limited. And we have to make sure in this big debate that we are now in a positive situation -- it's not a dramatic situation; it's a positive situation. Neither for crime nor for terrorism, it's dramatic -- we don't have to equip the police with more weapons when there's less need for it. With this I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1402	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1407	The police are and will be a power institution. The police must never, however, get too much power. The balance between state and citizen is what separates democracy from other, more authoritarian forms of governance. Norway has a long tradition of being civil and unarmed by the police. The left believes that it is important to keep the order of the day. One of the qualities of Norwegian society is the high trust that citizens have in each other and in the authorities. Police are among those institutions on which a good society depends and which themselves depend on the confidence of the citizens. The police still end up in situations where they have to be able to protect themselves and others. However, if the police are always armed, the threshold for using weapons may sink and could contribute to a general increase in the use of weapons. Therefore, the Left is against a general weapon, but we support measures that will make it easier for the police to be armed when the situation requires it. The proposal we are discussing today does not imply an opening to general arms. The proposal we are discussing today is a follow-up to the Jeløya Declaration and provides the basis for the unlimited armament of vulnerable points, what we call point-arming. Vulnerable features would typically include airports or other large traffic nodal points or features with high symbolic value. For the Left, it is important that the scope of arms is limited to a specific object and that this bill does not open up unlimited weapons in larger areas, such as: cities or parts of cities. For the arming of larger areas, the provision of the weapons instruction will continue to be justified, so that weapons will then be time-limited. I fear that by a general weapon, the police could lose their civil character, and that there will be more and not fewer dangerous situations. One can also risk a arms race where criminals arm themselves to a greater extent, and that is a development we do not want. We know that in Sweden, where there is general armament, the police fire six times more often than in Norway, even when we take into account the population. One person dies every year, and eight people are injured by political outbursts. Every 10 shots from the Swedish police are wet shots as a result of the wrong handling of weapons. No matter where the police are, statistics show that the risk of shooting the wrong person, or shooting the right person in the wrong place, increases by a general weapon. Researchers from the Swedish Defence Research Institute have gone through 76 planned attacks and carried out in the last 14 years. The study concludes that, at best, armaments can limit, but hardly prevent terrorist attacks. Researchers also say that there is point and object protection and not armed police themselves that have largely prevented terrorist attacks in the West in the last 10–15 years. In any case, armed police will often fail to reach and respond quickly enough. The citizens of Norway should feel safe. However, arms may provide a sense of insecurity. Armaments should therefore be limited to cases where necessary, such as points or objects where more protection is required. The left believes that the government's proposal is doing this in a satisfactory way, by strengthening the security of exposed objects while maintaining a civil and generally unarmed police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1421	Armed police are the subject of frequent debate here in Stortinget. That's good, because arming the police is about how to protect the police and our people. Arming the police is a key issue of value. What kind of communities do we want? And how can we, as legislators, protect our citizens and those who exercise the highest degree of power on our behalf? In Norway, we have a long and good tradition with a generally unarmed police force. This is still the case, despite the recent fact that the police have gained easier access to weapons through forward-looking storage. And that applies after we have made a decision here today. Police shall remain generally unarmed, and an overall judicial committee shall also underline its position. The Christian People's Party stands for a restrictive stance on the armaments of the police. There are several reasons for this, including: other that weapons-related research cannot demonstrate that armaments are essential to save lives through, for example: a terrorist attack. We also believe that the civil character of the police is an important foundation for the exercise of power. This is also supported by the Government-appointed Armed Committee, which presented its report last year. But of course we're not naive. The use of weapons will in some cases be absolutely necessary and not least crucial for saving lives. We are therefore in favour of forward-looking storage, and we support the proposal here today to introduce point-arming for vulnerable objects. The Armaments Committee relies on four general principles when assessing the use of weapons, both as legislators, civil servants and the police as a whole. It is legality, necessity, proportionality and accountability. This, I believe, is fundamental principles that are at the heart of our work. Of those who want a general weapon against the police, it is often claimed that, although crime has mainly declined in recent years, organised crime has increased, including in particular the threat of terrorism, and thus the police must be armed. I believe that this is an error, which is also the conclusion of the Committee on Arms. They believe that there are no features in the crime scene that can justify the general armament of the police. Researchers at the FFI, among others Thomas Hegghammer, can see that the armed gate police have stopped terror in Europe. It appears in reports, but also in a hearing we had here at Stortinget in the previous period. Among other things, he meant: the object protection of particularly vulnerable targets would be a more dangerous road. It is clear that armed police can prevent secondary attacks in the event of terrorism, but this is the case today, by providing police with access to forward-looking storage. I am pleased that the proposition explicitly points out that the object to be protected must be a specific object, and that the legal base given cannot result in whole cities or urban areas being armed. It's very important. In addition, it is underlined that an assessment of necessity must be made before a decision on the arming of vulnerable objects is taken. If there are other, less invasive, measures that can be taken, the armed police cannot be put in place. I also believe that, although the decision-making powers of armed forces with vulnerable objects lie with the Directorate of Police, it is absolutely central that the Ministry of Justice should give its consent. It is important to ensure political control and control of arms. Finally, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party will support the proposal of the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1440	It is no secret that my party has a different attitude towards the armed use of Norwegian police than that of the majority in Stortinget. Fortunately, in the area of point-arming, there is a great deal of consensus, and I am glad that the Justice Committee is following the government's proposal for a change to the police law that allows the police access to time-limited armaments by vulnerable objects. The current anti-armament devices are time-limited. However, there is a need for a weapon extending beyond what may be termed temporary. A key point behind the bill is that although the overall probability of being exposed to terrorism is low, it must be recognised that there are vulnerable objects in society where the potential for damage will be high in a terrorist attack. A point-arming system will improve the police’s ability to respond quickly, to avert and stop acts that could cause serious damage to society. As you know, the Police Directorate decided to arm the police at Oslo Airport for a period of up to three months from 8 November 2017, after obtaining the agreement of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Armaments have since been extended several times by up to eight weeks at a time. It is likely that the weapons could be so long-lasting that it is no longer natural to use the shelter for temporary weapons. In this way, the new facility for time-limited point-arming will meet the need for longer-term armaments. As a little curiosity, I can add that in its time the police actually had permanent weapons at the then Fornebu airport. In other words, given the increase in activity at the main aerodrome and the awareness of dealing with serious, life-threatening crime, it should be fully in place with a time-limited point weapon. I have noticed that the Workers' Party and the Centre have promoted each of their minority proposals, where the central thing is that the government keeps the Stortinges informed about the extent and development of point weapons. In this case, as in all other cases, the majority may at any time request an information from the responsible State Council. I therefore cannot see the need for a separate decision on this in this case. In any case, it is natural that the Department follows the development of point-arming and orientates the Storting in an appropriate manner. Finally, I would like to reply to what I saw as a question from the representative of the Vågslid on political control, and I would like to stress once again that the Directorate of Police cannot decide unlimited arms without the case being brought before the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have given their consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1460	In the case of point-armament, it is a clear criterion that the police should first consider measures other than armaments to provide adequate protection for the vulnerable object. However, implementation to the government when it comes to implementing measures based on assessments that are all done, in practice, turns out to be weak: We could this year read the Riksrevision's shattering report on the government's lack of ability to secure socially important infrastructure against possible terrorism and attacks for general object protection. So my question to the Council of State is, how will the Council of State explain the lack of ability of the government to secure objects in general, after the National Audit Office's revelations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1467	What I perceive the representative is really a different matter. As far as I've noticed, this is not in the Riksrevision's criticism of the protection of Oslo airport. I expect the Riksrevision report to be a matter we will certainly come back to in Stortinget, and we have so far given our answers to the Riksrevision on that matter. We're in the process, we're doing reinforcements, but we're not satisfied with the fact that we haven't reached a goal in terms of object protection. But once again, there is a different question from what is being treated here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1472	I do not agree with that, and I think it is alarming that the Council of State does not see the obvious connection with the proposal that is being made here today, which is about measures to ensure that we are protected against any terrorist attack, or point-armament, which we know is actually about being able to limit damage as much as possible. The police have to assess whether all other measures are better before a possible point-to-point weapon can be allowed. Here's the report from the National Audit Office so seriously that I expect the Council of State to answer me better on the question of how he will explain the missing government has shown to secure objects in general. It's about people's security. I would also like to know if the Council of State takes the findings that the Riksrevision describes as very serious, in the utmost seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1477	Of course, I take the Riksrevision's remarks in the greatest seriousness. Then there's reason to stress again that what the Riksrevision has assessed is the Ministry of Justice's and the police's own objects, and how they're secured. In this case, it is about objects and point weapons that relate to things that are not necessarily the property of the Ministry of Justice, but where the police have the task of ensuring that there are no serious adverse effects of any terrorist attack. I would like to emphasise once again that what we are now facing is areas where it is essentially, for example. at Oslo airport, are already armed and that that weapon has been granted temporarily. What this case is about is that when you give temporary weapons again – and over and over again – it is more fair, fair and right to call it unlimited weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1486	I'm not happy with the answer. I think that the assessment that allows time-limited point-arming by vulnerable objects is good, but the necessary criteria that underlie that assessment are also generally related to object protection. I feel that the Council of State comes with a disclaimer in the answer he gives me. The National Audit Office states that the basic protection of displayable objects is not a priority of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. I, as the leader of the Judicial Committee, must say that I am concerned and alarming. I think it's important in the context of this case that one now recognizes the seriousness and importance of getting this in place, so that one can actually look at the necessity criteria where in general before an evaluation of point-arming. For we know that allowing point-arming is not about averting terror, but about limiting the damage, as the proposition also says. Do the Councils see the clear context?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1493	I disagree with some of the reality description given by the representative. So the government has put in place a series of measures to strengthen the property of the Ministry of Justice. The entire large emergency centre being built will protect many of the objects that are not well protected today. It costs a lot of money, but we're building out there. Extra appropriations are also included in the revised national budget to do these things. But again, I actually see that as a different debate than the debate we have here today. But I am absolutely sure that we will have a good opportunity to come back to discussing the Riksrevisions report here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1500	The central party suggests that the government is keeping the Storting orientated about the extent of the dot weapons that we're adopting today. Why does the government's own party not go into this today? And will the Minister of Justice follow up this desire, as it is likely that our proposal will have multiple figures in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1505	The proposal of the majority of the Grand Duchy will be followed up by the Council of State. The main point here is that you do not consider it – nor in my opinion – as a very necessary decision for the Stortinget to take. It is natural regardless of whether to follow the development of point-arming very carefully and orientate the Storting in an appropriate way about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1511	I am concerned that we have a clear definition of what are so-called vulnerable objects, so I want to ask the Minister of Justice if he can define it a little more clearly: what indicators will be used to define vulnerability? And then I want us to be a little concrete: for example. The fact that there are many people somewhere is an indicator of vulnerability? Does it mean, for example, that the Karl Johan area around Stortinget is a vulnerable area or object where we're supposed to have armed police? What about the Tøencenter and Holmlia Senter – are the areas where he thinks we should have permanently armed, or point-armed, police?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1516	The specific assessment will be made by the police where the police are. It shall be accompanied by a description both of the object, of the vulnerability and of the threat. Once that description has been given, the Directorate of Police will assess it, and after the matter has been referred to the Ministry of Justice, you will be able to obtain consent. This means that there is no general point-arming of objects that the police call for points, which need armaments, there is a description and a concrete assessment to be presented to general authorities, and which will then be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. It is therefore not possible for me now to give any other example than Oslo Airport, because there we have a temporary weapon that we feel we still need to renew, and then it is more appropriate to say that it is an unlimited weapon.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1521	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1528	The installation from SV's representative Petter Eide was designed to confuse people outside this house about what the big crowd is about today. That is why I take the floor. Eite claimed, among other things. there is little difference between the introduction of time-limited point-to-point weapons and the introduction of general weapons. Now, apparently, the police are going to lose their civil character, and as the police follow Eide not patrols for fun, they will have weapons when they patrol. Everyone may be a few that the police are not patrolling for fun, but that they are going to carry weapons, regardless of when they are patrolling in the future, is to drag this law change a little far. The representative, Eide, indicates that crime goes down – we are some of them – and that there is no need for stronger power. All of this, in my opinion, is a distortion of reality. It presents us as the big crowd today, as if we mean something other than what we are actually going in for today. It's not okay, because this is a matter where the bulk of the population agrees that we shouldn't have general weapons. We haven't been through too long to change the law so that we have forward-looking storage, which works better than it's done before, and we're now in favour of time-limited point-arming, because we see that crime has fallen, but the crime scene has changed. It has changed threats and changed crime, and then the Storting has to take it in and make changes to the laws that make the future meet reality in a good way. I did not think that the SV's representative could do anything, to put it this way. Then it's okay to point that out too. The Storting majority agree that we should not have general weapons. Then it's important for me to stress that the change we're making today, not that we're going to have a police officer who's going to lose his civil character. It's a distortion of reality that I thought it was worth pointing out. It's also worth pointing out that we need to listen to the police when they come up with concrete wishes about how to secure the vulnerable objects we've been talking about today, in a good way. Point-to-point weaponry is therefore sensible. I would also like to stress that the Centre Party has reason to suggest what we are proposing today that we want the Stortinge to be properly informed about the development of this dot weapon. It goes without saying that taking this off and being used in too many places will be necessary to correct the course. It is the Stortinget's responsibility to follow in the future. But today's change in the law is a positive change in the law, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1543	I also need to say part of what Jenny Klinge just said. I fully support what the representative from the Centre said. For the Workers' Party, as the Center Party – and the Christian People's Party clearly stated the same thing – is concerned with being clear that we are still against the general armament of the police. We're very busy with the police's civil character and the social mission they carry out in Norway in a unique way, compared to some countries we don't like to compare with. I think the description that SV uses today is wrong. I mean, it's very clear in the configuration of the committee what criteria are underlying it. I don't think the police are out for fun either, but the police are doing very much important patrolling work that will never be in the vicinity of these weapons criteria, not to mention prevention, screening, general presence, etc. It's not true that people from now on are going to meet an armed police force all over Norway. The Labour Party had never agreed to that. That's why it's important for me to express it too. I think there's a point, as it says in the proposition, and that also the weapon selection shows that there's no reason to arm the police to ward off terror. We've seen some examples that it doesn't necessarily work. But that argument that one can limit the damage from it, I thought it was very central and very important. Shortly back to my line change: if anyone were to be confused, I think that in order to avert and secure people in a better way, the government would have to follow up the criticism that comes from the National Audit Office on object protection. There is a lot of concern about how to protect yourself against terrorist attacks, and not least about all of the criteria such as: the police, in addition to the defence, shall assess whether a point-armament, if any, is to be recommended. A point is not moving. The arguments from SV are, unfortunately, completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1554	This proposal is about giving the police the means they need to ensure the best possible security for people. The aim of armaments, whether point-to-point or general weapons, is not that the police should use weapons anymore, but that, when needed, they should have rapid access to weapons. The purpose is to save lives and limit damage when it says in minutes. Although the threat of terror in Norway has fallen according to PST, which is very positive and according to PST is due to the fact that many of the Islamists in Norway have traveled to Syria, and that more people have also died in the fights there, there is no doubt that when we look around, there is still a danger of critical events. As I mentioned in the previous article, we should not go further than to our neighbouring country Sweden, where terrorist attacks were carried out last year. The Justice Committee was recently in London, where we were told, as it has also been in the news, that in one of the terrorist attacks in London last year, one of the reasons for being able to limit the damage was that within a few minutes the police were able to control the perpetrator because the police with guns were present there quickly. We won't be able to protect ourselves against all kinds of terrorist attacks no matter how good intelligence and how good work we do. It is therefore important that the police in vulnerable areas have quick access to weapons to ensure security and stop situations if something dangerous happens in these areas. Finally, I would like to comment on our position on the proposal from the Central Party, which was mentioned instead. We believe that, as maggots and justice politicians, we should follow point-to-point weapons in the future, but the government parties do not see the need for a decision on this in order to keep us properly informed, so we do not want to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1567	I've drawn a few comments to my post, and that's fine, because then we'll get a clear and good debate on this, and I don't have anything against it. Let me just get the representatives Klinge and Vågslid to repeat SV's position. The position is: We're for an armed police force with vulnerable objects. We're trailers of that. But we want two criteria to be considered: one is that it should be based on a concrete threat analysis; the other is that it should be time-limited. When the threat is over, the weapons shall be locked in again. If you do not maintain these two criteria, then so-called unlimited weapons will gradually approach a general weapon. These are the two criteria I have outlined, which will maintain the distinction between point weapons where necessary and general weapons. Now, the majority in the United Kingdom is opening up a system where, in their own opinion, the police can arm themselves in particularly vulnerable areas. As a result, we will gradually have a run-off against a more generally armed police force without requiring a time-limit and without calling for a concrete threat assessment. That means that over time this difference is going to be smaller and smaller, and we'll see a slipping out. Therefore, these two criteria form the basis of the SV’s proposal – precisely to maintain the sharp distinction between the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s involvement, but on which they do not wish to be included in their proposals. I still believe that Stortinget could have safely said that we want to give the police permission for point-arming, but that to ensure that this does not gradually slip against a more general weapon, we maintain the requirement that it should be time-limited, and the requirement that it should be based on a concrete threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1578	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1594	I would like to refer to the 2017 Annual Report from the Selection of Justice. This scheme is The Storting's own compensation scheme for wrongs that has been imposed on a person in the event of public blame. The scheme is not legal, and no one has legal rights to legal compensation. The Committee notes that 21.5 million were paid in 2017. kr in legal compensation from the State, and that this is SEK 4.3 million. kr less than 2016. The background for the decline is that fewer cases have been dealt with in total and fewer cases under the special schemes, which have a higher grant rate and level of payments. We in the committee note that the overall average duration of proceedings has fallen somewhat. In 2017, she was 15 months old. Otherwise, the Committee has no comments, refers to the annual report and advises the Stortinget to attach it to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1607	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1623	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1632	This case concerns amendments to Section 31 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which makes it possible for persons excluded from refugee status to be expelled as well, and to Section 73, which provides that decisions on the expulsion of persons protected from return can be taken, but not taken until the basis for the return protection has expired. It is also a question of Section 90, which makes it possible for persons whose grounds for expulsion are grounds for exclusion to be shortened or neglected, and it is a question of § 53, to extend the scope of the abuse clause to include in-law families or other members of the household. The last change is the change in Section 7 of the SIS Act, which allows persons excluded from refugee status to be registered in SIS. There's consensus in the committee on all the legislative changes, but someone wants to go a little bit further, and I'll get back to it. The Committee agrees that it is unfortunate that persons who have committed serious acts cannot be expelled or refused a residence permit when they are excluded from refugee status. This whole committee now wants to change, and we are happy about that. It is a majority who asks the ministry to assess whether there should be clearer guidance on the evidence requirement in such cases, and I think that the government will follow up in a good way. When it comes to the abuse clause, it's probably where the parties differ most – to the extent that they differ. One party, SV, wants to expand the personality even more than the government adds up to. They want related persons who do not live in the same household to provide a basis for self-employment in the event of abuse. We believe that such an extension will go too far and really undermine what is intentional, and the intention is that one should not choose to remain in a situation where there is abuse, or where one is threatened with having to leave. Apart from this one minority proposal, there is an overall committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1651	I think the rapporteur presented the consensus in the committee in a good way. The right to apply for asylum is about giving protection to those who are persecuted, and we have obligations that make it impossible for us to send people to persecution. The asylum institute is about trust. People who have committed war crimes and serious acts must not be allowed to exploit a system that will include the most vulnerable: just people who are fleeing from, for example. war crimes. It is therefore quite right and necessary that the Grand Duchy should now make it clear in the law that persons who have committed serious acts and are then excluded from refugee status should also be expelled and refused a residence permit. Then we make it clear the justice of who has the right to protection. Other changes to the foreign law that we are also going to adopt today are those who experience violence and abuse in society, that they are allowed to stay on an independent basis upon application, and that they are extended to other members of the same household, i.e. the big family, and not just the spouse, when they want to break out of marriage. Unfortunately, we know that violence in close relations and violence against women is also a major social problem in Norway. That's why these changes are about how we deal with those who experience violence in close relationships, so that they can get out of a life that's pretty tough and vulnerable. Freedom, that people should be able to live a free and independent life without worrying or experiencing threats and violence in everyday life – that's what we're talking about. We have to stand up for these vulnerable people. Therefore, this magnification can tell us clearly that it is unacceptable. It's criminal, and we can make changes to the alien law that allow women to break out of marriage and know that they can get an independent residence. I would also like to thank Jussbuss very much, which is run by law students – i.e. future students – who have worked on such matters and who are preparing for the weakest. They have shared a report with us that is clear that today's practice is based on a higher threshold than the Storting's intention. Therefore, there is now a clear order and expectation to the Council of State that this will be followed up by the government. These vulnerable people don't have time to wait. The message from Stortinget must be clear: we are standing before you in the fight against violence in close relations and in the fight against social control. No one shall deny any liberty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1664	The first legislative proposals in this case are a broad consensus – that those excluded from refugee status should also be able to be expelled and not allowed to stay. But there's a reason to be a little sober in these matters, because it's not just easy to expel people. There may be legal obligations, and there may be many practical obstacles, so whether this provision is to be applied so much in practice remains to be seen. It is also worth stressing that the child's consideration should be given to weight here. It has to count, it can't be just other considerations. With regard to the second theme, the abuse clause in the Foreign Affairs Act, the government suggests that this should apply to the family if they live in the same place, but I think everyone knows that there can be both pressure and violence from people far beyond the core family living in the same place. I'm a little surprised that the parties that talk very loudly about violence, abuse and social control, don't see that there are other than the nearest family who live at the same address, who can practice this kind of violence. We all know that can happen, and those people are just as vulnerable and need exactly as much protection as those who happen to live at the same address as the perpetrator. Therefore, SV is promoting this proposal, and I still hope that the Storting will join it. If the proposal does not come back to the harvest. The second is the report that Jussbuss made, which SV introduced into committee. I'm very happy that the committee saw the seriousness of it. Jussbuss has gone through a lot of cases, and it is a very thorough review that refers to the provisions that exist and to the preparatory work of the law, which shows the legislator's intention, among other things. that the threshold should be low and that psychological violence should also apply. It is not appropriate when practice shows that the non-resident authorities require evidence to prove, for example: mistreatment. It is difficult to document mental abuse. The report concludes that it is based on a too strict interpretation of the abuse concept, which is not consistent with that legislator – the Stortinget – said when we adopted the law. Therefore, SV believes that there is reason to conclude that this needs to be tightened up. The majority have now agreed that the government has to look at this, and that there has to be a case for Stortinget, so that the Stortinget also sees the government's assessment of these issues. I will deal with the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1677	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1682	The Party supports the Government’s proposal that those excluded from refugee status be expelled and that they should not be allowed to stay on other grounds, such as: family reunification if they have lost refugee status. I share the view of an overall committee, which says that it is unfortunate that people who have committed such serious acts that they can be excluded from refugee status, under today's legislation, cannot be expelled or denied residence on another basis. Not all hearing bodies support the proposal. Lawyers' Association and Jussbuss believe that there are already opportunities to expel refugees who have been excluded from refugee status if the foreigner is at risk of Norwegian society. However, I believe it is illogical that the threshold for the expulsion of an asylum seeker who has committed a crime should be different from that for family reunification. I believe that there is reason to note the opinion of the Committee on Public Law of the Association of Judges, which says that it is important to give clear guidance on the requirement of proof in cases of expulsion. It is a recommendation that the ministry should follow. The proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act also concerns a proposal for the extension of the circuit covered by the abuse provision. Persons who have been granted a residence permit as a spouse or cohabitant to a person residing in Norway must, as a general rule, return to their home country if their life ceases before the foreigner has received a permanent residence permit. Today’s law exempts persons who have experienced violence in close relationships, defined as violence by spouses or cohabitants. The term ‘closer relations’ is now proposed to apply to other members of the same household or in-law family. I perceive this provision differently than SV defines it. I perceive that this is true of the in-law family, even if they do not live in the same household. The centre party considers this to be a correct and important adjustment to the law to protect persons who are exposed to violence in close relations. Unfortunately, there are many such issues, and it is important that people who are exposed to violence and abuse are protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1693	The bill presented to the Stortinget today contains several proposals. The proposal on the grounds of expulsion is, inter alia, the following: a follow-up to measures of the Government Action Plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. With the new rules, those who would otherwise have been excluded from refugee status if they had applied for protection may be expelled from Norway. An important consequence of the new expulsion rules is that they also provide the basis for refusing other applications for residence, such as: applications for family immigration. This is not possible under current foreign legislation and in practice means that persons who have committed this type of serious act can circumvent the legislation and be allowed to stay in Norway. It's not okay. It not only undermines the institution of asylum and the rules of exclusion, but also conflicts with the general sense of law. We must prevent Norway from appearing as a haven for war criminals and those who have committed such a serious act that they lose their right to refugee status. The proposal also provides for the registration of those expelled in the Schengen Information System and therefore will not be able to obtain a residence permit in another Schengen country. The proposition presented today also follows up action 5 of the government action plan against negative social control. Following the so-called maltreatment provision in the Foreign Affairs Act, a family immigrant is entitled to a continued residence permit after a life break if he or she has been abused by his or her partner. Through this provision, the legislator has wanted to ensure that victims of violence in close relationships are not forced to choose between leaving Norway and remaining in a violent situation. However, practice has shown that the provision has not provided sufficient protection to those exposed to domestic violence, typically within a large family. In order to remedy this situation, we propose that the provision be extended to include abuse by persons other than spouses or cohabitants. The new provision will, on the basis of the proposal, cover all members of the applicant’s household and, in addition, the in-law family who are not part of the same household. The evidence requirement for abuse shall remain low. I would like to stress that there is ongoing work to combat violence in close relationships, which also assesses the special needs of foreigners who are subjected to family abuse. A minority have proposed to further extend the circle of persons to related persons who do not live in the same place. I cannot see the need for such further expansion, as the purpose of the provision, to be able to feel safe in their own homes, is taken care of by the government's proposal. Combating violence in close relationships is an important initiative for this government. We know that good information about the rights of victims is important, and in recent years, information measures have been implemented under the auspices of the UDI aimed at both victims of violence and relief services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1709	It is good that the abuse clause in the Foreign Affairs Act is extended. But SV, as probably most of the others here, have been away in matters where it is about both threats and violence from others other than the in-law family and the very close family living in the same place. This means that there is a good deal of social control and violence being exercised by, for example: fatter, uncles and aunts. We know that, and the question is then: why does the government conclude that this kind of violence, which can be just as dangerous, can also be practiced in the home where a resident, and create insecurity in that home, is not to be covered by this? It is a little difficult to understand – because it must be to be subjected to violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1715	I understand very well the representative's concern. It is such that you have to draw a boundary from the department somewhere. There is also some reason to take into account that the scheme should work according to the intention, namely that people who are in a situation that is desirable for them to get out of it actually get out of it. But it's about setting a boundary somewhere, so that no one threat of violence in itself should grant a residence permit, or that any person could threaten and thereby trigger a mechanism. But I understand the concern, and at first we do something about the matter today by expanding the circuit quite significantly. I believe that enlargement will meet the need, which the Stortinget has also called for in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1720	I think it's a pretty naive attitude to have when you know how social control and violence can be exercised in some of these few, but very serious issues. That means that a family can use a strawman to exercise the violence they do not exercise, and that it is then the victim who has to go out. It's a deep disagreement. But I have one more question: it's about the comment that the Judiciary's Committee on Public Law had on the requirement of proof in matters of expulsion following the exclusion criterion, where there must be very clear leadership. Will the Council of State follow the call of the Judiciary Association, so that it becomes clear what is to be the requirement of proof in these difficult cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1727	Let me first stress that violence in any case is not acceptable and shall not happen. We have a police force and an orderly force to intervene against it, anyway – just so it's said. It is important that there is no left behind the impression that the government thinks violence is right. So to the second question, which I am very pleased to see the representative say: about the requirement of proof. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee asks the Ministry to consider whether there should be clearer guidance for the requirement of proof. As a result of the comment, the Ministry will draw up a circular to the UDI. In this circular, we will discuss questions related to, for example: the importance of the intervention character of the decision in the individual case and the need for an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1734	To the answer that the Council of State gives to my first question, where he refers to the law and the police and to the fact that violence is not allowed: yes, it is okay, but the problem in these matters is that there are people who are placed in a inferior position because the residence permit is linked to society. At the moment you turn to the police, you can get help, the perpetrator can be convicted, etc., but you lose your residence permit and you have to leave the country. That's the whole problem with the case. That's why these matters must have a different solution than just going to the police and getting them convicted. Because there is such a risk, and often also the imposition of great shame, in these matters, we know that more people endure violence for a long time. They do not dare to report, because they are then sent out of the country and perhaps back to a situation where violence can continue. Doesn't the Council of State see that these cases can be such?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1739	That's what the Council of State does. The main point with the introduction in the previous line was to correct the impression that the government thinks it's okay with violence – so it's not like that. Then I would like to stress that there is ongoing work to combat violence in close relationships, where the special needs of non-residents who are subjected to family abuse are also to be assessed. So this is not the only tool we have, and I think it's important to say that. But this is a gratification of something that I think is very correct and very necessary. The legislative proposal aims to make it even easier for victims of violence to contact the police – because we are changing and opening the law to include threats from more people – so that they can stay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1746	I am pleased that the Council of State in its contribution made it clear that this also applies to the in-law family living elsewhere than in the household. But can the Council of State also make a clear definition of the ‘disappearer’ family in this context? It's a big challenge that it doesn't have to be a mother-in-law or a father-in-law; it can be a brother, uncle or aunt to the husband, etc. which is exerting this kind of violence, and it will be very clarifying if we can get a definition of what you think is to be part of the term in-law family.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1751	I don't think I'm going to go into the details of it, but there's two extensions happening. One applies to the large family within which you live, the other to the in-law family that does not necessarily live in the same place. Interpretation of regulations and rules is used, and we may also come back with a more detailed explanation of who these people are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1758	I was a little stunned by what the Council of State really means. Can the Council of State clarify whether he believes that it should apply only to mother-in-law and father-in-law, or does he, as I do, think that it should also apply to other parts of the in-law family?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1763	I think it's natural that there are other parts of the in-law family, but I don't want to go any closer to defining who it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1773	Three minutes goes very fast, so I did not get into all the points in the matter correctly. But it was then mentioned that there has been concern that the intention of the law in the abuse clause may not be followed. That is why a unanimous committee has tabled a proposal asking the government to ensure that the intention of the law is followed, and I am sure that the government will follow up in a very good way. I have some comments to make to the representative Karin Andersen about staying if you are subjected to abuse by someone who does not live in the same house. It seems that Andersen's representative forgets the fact that if the person you are in a relationship with, i.e., a spouse or a partner, is not part of the abuse and you have a good relationship, there is no need to stay on an independent basis – because then you have to stay. That's the fact that I think it's important to bring with it. You go beyond what the law is supposed to handle, namely that you end up in a fight between choosing to continue living in a situation where there is abuse, and have no choice but to be sent back, with which someone can actually threaten. But you have to remember that as long as the relationship works well, you don't need to stay on an independent basis. Then there will be completely different conditions, completely different laws, which also enter into part of the examples that Andersen's representative drew up. Much of it will be illegal in itself, but one still wants to stay if it happens, as long as the community functions well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1781	I'm not convinced by these reasonings, because there may be violence without the partner or spouse doing it, with or without the tacit acceptance of what is happening. After all, it is not that there is a difference between all who engage in violence, or that there is joy and joy in marriage, but, besides, the family is violent and engages in harassment and other terrible things. There are often quite moving transitions, and everyone who has worked a little – I have been working in the crisis centre movement since the 1970s – knows how intricate many of these violence cases can be, including in Norwegian families. This provision also applies, we remember, a lot of those who are family immigrants to Norway because they marry Norwegians. Much is love, unfortunately not. There are often people who are completely alone and have no family around them, while what is supposed to be caught now, of course is a type of big family, social violence, social coercion. I believe that the provision should have been expanded somewhat more to capture these cases, which are not many, but exist, and which place them in as dangerous and as impossible a situation as what is now described, and which is well corrected. So finally, with regard to this report presented by Jussbuss, which is alarming, an overall committee is now saying that the government must report back to the Stortninget as soon as possible the assessments and any changes that have been made. It's very important that we now get the government's assessments of practice. We might have different assessments of them, but it's impossible to know before we see them. This means not only that one should have a conclusion; one should also have the reason for the conclusion that the government is asked to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1792	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1804	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e1813	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to introduce into the new package travel law a right of withdrawal on package travel purchased outside regular business premises.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to continue the travel guarantee for the transport part of a package tour in the new package travel law.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2618	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2628	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2637	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kristian Torve on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of the autonomous right of withdrawal of parental leave for fathers.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2663	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to evaluate within two years how the proposed changes in the withdrawal of cash support affect employment participation and equal opportunities in the labour market». The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2790	The third sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 14-9 and the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-12 shall be deleted. The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2805	It is voted over II, all paragraphs. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2819	The rest of the I, and the III.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2829	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2839	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2929	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2940	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2950	There are eight proposals that have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 4-7, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 8, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 8 during the debate was drawn and will not be taken up for voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals for a national action plan against body pressure, which includes an assessment of the vulnerability of children and young people to advertising, a review of the protection of children and young people by the Marketing Act, common guidelines for commercial actors in social media and measures regulating the advertising and media industry. In particular, the action plan must look at new platforms such as social media and apps and promote measures to prevent body pressure on such platforms.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to prohibit the commercial marketing of cosmetic surgery and to investigate how to prohibit the commercial marketing of harmful slim products.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a case for measures to limit advertising in the public space, such as the establishment of advertising-free zones in the vicinity of schools.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the enforcement of Chapter 4 of the Marketing Act on the special protection of children, inter alia, by mandated by the Consumer Authority to reduce harmful and body-fixed advertising and so-called restitution apps aimed at children and young people.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e2999	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for firm support in the regulation of the commercial marketing of cosmetic surgery, in particular advertising, which contributes to unhealthy body ideals and which also reaches children and young people’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a change to the marketing law in the provision on good marketing practice, Section 2 of the Marketing Act, which specifies that advertisers are to ensure that advertising does not show an unrealistic or unhealthy ideal of beauty, including by labelling advertising that changes the body shape of people in advertising.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose a amendment to Section 21 of the Marketing Act, which regulates good marketing practices for children, in order to prevent advertising aimed at children in general, and to discourage pressure on young people in particular.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3214	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3224	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3344	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3355	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3364	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and promote provisions on point weapons in the case of vulnerable objects. Those provisions shall include assessment criteria for threat assessment and vulnerability. Point-arming provisions shall only be given time-limited’. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3393	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an ongoing evaluation of open-ended point-arming in vulnerable objects and return to Stortinget with an annual report in a separate case on status and development’. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3410	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to keep the Stortinget informed on the extent of police point-arming annually and in an appropriate manner’. The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3488	It's going to wrestle over you. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3503	It shall be counted against II and III, all paragraphs. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3517	There's something about the voting that's not right. We shall vote again over II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3531	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3545	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3571	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to investigate and submit proposals for a change in the law which extends the personality of the abuse clause of Section 53 of the Foreign Affairs Act to other related persons who do not live in the same place». The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3710	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3715	No, we're for Section 53 first paragraph, but we'll vote against the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3720	Then we have to split up the voting and vote over the first paragraph of Section 53 separately. It's a long time before the summer ends, so we have a good time. Then we do it this way: we now vote over A, all Roman numerals and paragraphs except for the first paragraph of Section 53. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3736	It is contested by the first paragraph of Section 53.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3746	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3756	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-06.ana.ud443e3798	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
