ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e28	The representative Trond Giske, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Martin Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e41	On behalf of Jorodd Asphjell, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Nina Sandberg and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to conduct a new student life study and a survey of the students' learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e46	The representative, Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e51	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tore Hagebakken, Tellef Inge Mørland, Siv Henriette Jacobsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a joint-ownership guarantee in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e56	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e61	I would like to make a proposal, on behalf of Mr. Ingvild Kjerkol, Mr. Oluk V. Bollestad, Mr. Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, to change the requirement of the emergency medical code to the medical guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e77	In accordance with Section 79 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Rules of Procedure of Section 72 on Oral Question Time be temporarily waived as regards the number of main questions and follow-up questions that one representative may raise. No objections have been raised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President wants to raise the oral question procedure as follows: The oral question procedure may last until 5 p.m. 11:30. All batches are given the opportunity to ask main questions with subsequent follow-up questions. The largest batches have several main questions. Batches have a given quota of follow-up questions that the batches themselves have – either on one or more queryors or on one or more questions. The follow-up questions are distributed as follows: the working party six questions, the centre five questions, the Socialist Left four questions, the Christian People's Party three questions, the Green Party one question and the Red One question. The President will recall that speaking time is still the same — up to 2 minutes to main questions and answers, and up to 1 minute to other questions and answers. The President will also ask for both questions and answers to respect the speaking time. On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e110	In the government platform, the Solberg government writes about the crime of working life, and that's very good. But something they don't rewrite in a single word is social dumping. There are many ways to undermine the serious life of non-criminal work. Here are two examples: Just before Christmas, I met a young man from Rogaland. He was hired industrial workers and trades unionized. When the country meeting of his trade union came close, he got very bent on telling me at work that he was going to attend this country meeting. He had known that his work as a trustee was not particularly popular. But he said so, and he went to the national meeting. When he came home again, the message was ready: we don't need you anymore. They rented others. Another example is also from Rogaland. Two of the big gardens that have the same owners, and they've used a system called an agricultural trainee. Then a few trainees from Eastern Europe can reach 70 pst. of the salary of an unskilled person. For the last four years, these two gardens have had 314 agricultural trainees. It's not illegal, it's within the law, but it's outside the ethics. There's pressure on pay and working conditions, it's becoming more and more strongly attached, it's weakening the organized working life, and it's the recipe for social dumping. My question is simple: What does the Prime Minister intend to do to counteract the case of social dumping within the framework of the law, but outside ethics?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e121	The government is giving high priority to work against the crime of working life. Some of these are serious crimes, some of which are ways to avoid today's laws and regulations. Of course, there are also areas where the legislation can be applied in a way that is within the law, which is what we would call ethically unsustainable. This means that we always have to look dynamically at whether the legislation and the law are right, and that's why we always go through the rules, for example. we go through the rules of agencies and issues related to them. Among other things, we have had cases relating to these questions at the hearing and reported that there was a case for this back to Stortinget. One of our major and important priorities has been to ensure that we can keep track of the very organised crime associated with the work that the work centres are doing now. Therefore, seven co-localised centres are now established. They show results, showing results in areas where actors are out of the picture – they are no longer actors in the Norwegian labour market. But we have also done so through the work they have done, looking at border areas that are difficult – not least what happens when labour enters Norway, while employment contracts are concluded abroad and control and follow-up work is there. That is why we took a separate initiative towards the EU on precisely this – when they look at the legislation related to labour crime and to the labour market – that we need to have better and closer cooperation. We have signed agreements with the authorities of other countries to ensure that the legislation is complied with, and we have also said that we would like to enter into an even larger partnership based on what we have done in terms of labour-life crime in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e128	The Prime Minister answers well when it comes to labour and a-crime centres. They also want to strengthen the Workers' Party, both economically and with more tools. But my point is that the police can't help the guy who loses his job because he's a tradesman, because the police can't stop the gardener who picks up East Europeans after East Europeans just because it's simple and cheap. On the other hand, it is a political task to do something about these things. For example, we will. have an end to the payment of fixed payment; we have suggested it. We are open to reorganising the agricultural traineeship so that it cannot be misused, that one should perhaps have an apprenticeship scheme, where one follows more closely and provides more learning. The trade unions are the first line defense in the fight for a serious working life and against social dumping, and then my question is: What will the Prime Minister do to increase the level of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e135	First, the element of employment rent in Norway is relatively small. It's between 1.5 and 2 pst. of the total labour market. But we see that in some areas it is considerably more significant. In particular, construction in Oslo and Akershus is an area with a high degree of labour input. And then there's been seasonal rents in agriculture for many years -- yes, it's really been this way since the 1980s that many people have come here to work seasonally in our agriculture. We are concerned that the trade unions have good working conditions, and therefore we continue to retain a tax deduction from the quota. At the same time, I would like to stress that there are differences in the labour market. There is a high level of organisation in the public sector, a somewhat lower level in the private sector, and organisations themselves must take on board – to what extent can they be attractive to members to be organised?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e142	If I was interested in what the organisations themselves would do to increase the degree of organisation, I would ask them. I am busy what the Prime Minister will do to get to this. The Svensson Foundation has recently carried out an investigation showing that, among those who are not members of a trade union today, every ten represals are afraid if they join a trade union. And among young people, concern is even greater. There it is 18 pst. Which says they're afraid of negative consequences at work, almost every five youths. Then the question is natural: what does the government really intend to do to ensure that the right to be organized is real to everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e147	The right to be organised is enshrined in Norwegian rules, but the right to not be organised is also enshrined in the freedom of organisation, so it is a fundamental issue. So I believe that not least because employers themselves say that a high level of organisation is important, it is those who have to deal with it if they are members of their organisations – or other employers – who actually undermine the right to organise. We want to make everyone's right to organize, from the government's side, but it's still the trade unions themselves that have to be attractive, who have to have an offer and show their justification. I also think it's a good idea that people are professionally organized. Everyone who comes into conflict knows that having a club, a working system at work, securing them in today's working life, and that it's important. Appropriate measures, other than those we have today, are not considered necessary by the government, but employers should be clear and clear about the right to organise themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e156	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e161	It is obvious that the lack of answers from the prime minister on social dumping is due to the government's lack of policies to combat social dumping. Much can be agreed with regard to the need for greater efforts to combat crime at work, but with regard to social dumping, the government does not say a single word in the government statement on how to combat it. One of the reasons why it is easy to exploit workers, as Hadia Tajik describes it in his examples, is that more people have a looser relationship with the world of work today than before. In the government platform, the government states that it will ‘adapt the law’ precisely to this and that ‘many people have different forms of association with the world of work than usual’. At the same time, the government says that it is engaged in a high level of organisation and that permanent employment should be the general rule. How is the Prime Minister going to make sure that it does?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e168	The representative is wrong when he says that the government has no action against social dumping. I've just explained to several of them. It is clear that social dumping is also an important element in the fight against crime at work. The main source of social dumping is rental from abroad, so we have taken an initiative towards the European Commission to put these issues on the agenda and ensure that the rules are actually enforced. It is possible that the representative has a different definition of social dumping from the usual one, but the measures we have implemented are new, they are effective, they help us clarify it, and they are made in cooperation with the LO and the NHO – because we have tripartite cooperation in the fight to ensure decent working conditions and in the fight against crime at work. Then I believe that it is an important and fundamental principle in Norway that everyone should have rights regardless of whether they choose to be organised or not. Going in a direction where the rights are only linked to being organized, I think I'm going to break with what I think is the basic principle of universal rights in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e176	We hear a lot of fine formulations from the Prime Minister here and from the Jeløya platform about what you want to do for an organized working life, regular employment and that kind of thing. But in action, the government makes the sting the opposite. We made 30 proposals last year to combat social dumping – defeated by the government parties. We have made many proposals in the budget, at the latest for 2018 – voted down by the government parties. The government cuts the trade-union deduction, which is a hard attack on the level of organisation, and now it is up to the government parties to vote against our proposal to restrict the use of temporary, to limit the use of contracted labour and to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate has several permits to stop illegal hiring. So in action, we see that the government is doing the exact opposite of what it says. But these are fine wordings in the government platform. Does the government intend to start doing what it says it should do, or does it intend to continue doing the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e181	Action does not necessarily mean the same as being in favour of the Workers' Party's proposals, rather the proposals that the Workers' Party is putting on the table that are already underway, which sometimes seem unnecessary – some of the proposals that they have made – because it is a work that is going on and we will come back to the matter. For example, we have reported a case this spring that concerns the regulations relating to rent, to agency staff and that kind of question in the future. So we've delivered activity in many of these areas, and it seems, because unprofessional actors are out of the labour market. The A-Crimen Centres now report that there are many major legal cases that have just taken place on the exploitation of people in the labour market. That means that the measures we have are working and going on, but we're constantly looking for new ones. We are open to good proposals from the Labour Party, but not all the proposals from the Labour Party are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e188	Solfrid Lerbreck – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e193	Large parts of our working life and our society are now struggling with serious crime at work. This distorts our community for large incomes. If a person is signed to operate illegally in this way, a law-enforcement fee that is no higher than the cost of operating according to rules and regulations is most likely to be at risk. In June last year, three proposals for stricter penalties were put forward in this area. The government parties voted against. Now the government statement says that tougher penalties should be considered. Does the Prime Minister think that serious crime at work is enough to punish himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e200	We've been very clear about prosecution, and we've been very clear that serious crime is to be prosecuted. Sometimes the crime of working life is not just convicted as a crime of working life, it is condemned as tax evasion, it is a sum of effects. Very often, this crime is linked to more than one relationship, and that's why we see that some of the sentences are also about human trafficking and exploitation of people. I fully agree with the representative Lerbreck that this is the theft of society. Gross work-life crime is an avoidance of taxes and taxes that should have contributed to welfare benefits in our society, but it is also a major violation of those who are directly exposed to it in the workplace. That is why we take it seriously, so we have a separate action plan attached to it – we are renewing it with new measures – and that is why we are going to have a summit on labour-life crime later this month. Because we haven't just done this as a one-off run, we have a dynamic work with the social partners. That is why we also look at how we can ensure that restrictions due to professional secrecy can be resolved, so that this becomes more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e207	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e212	It lights up in the warning lights for parts of the world of work, and social dumping at the borders of trafficking in human beings is and will be unsustainable. The Prime Minister has acknowledged this, and so does Minister of Labour Annicken Hauglie when she says that the situation is unsustainable in some places. One of the measures widely supported in the Storting is to have more work-life crime centres. In the agreement on the state budget, the Christian People's Party has been involved in ensuring that one has been given the means to create more of them. The A-crime centre as a co-located centre is a spearhead in the fight against labour-life crime. They get good targets, especially because they are involved in improving the flow of information between different levels. I want to challenge the Prime Minister on how we can ensure that they work optimally. For example, there is today a problem that obligations between etathans help to prevent one from achieving their objectives optimally. Will the Prime Minister evaluate the labour-criminal centres, and how can we strengthen them in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e221	We will evaluate the work-life crime centres gradually, but they must also be allowed to function, and we must see action from many of the relatively new ones. One of the most important things we can now see is that it may not be necessary to expand the number of labour-criminal centres; it is, in fact, the most important thing to ensure that there are sufficient resources in those areas where there are major challenges in the labour market. Oslo and Akershus are among the areas where trade unions report the greatest challenges in the labour market, for example. the rent rate much higher than it is in the rest of the country. I agree that professional secrecy is a challenge. That is why, in the work that has been done between the agencies as part of our action plan against crime at work, we have done work with a supervisor on how to deal with professional secrecy. We are now also working on changes in legislation and regulations, so that we can ensure some areas that we know are affected by this, with greater transparency between the levels of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e228	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e233	Important parts of Norwegian energy policy were excluded from the EEA Agreement in 1992, and there were good reasons for this. Our role as an energy producer of both oil, gas and renewable energy makes us quite different from the EU countries in energy policy. Norwegian renewable energy resources must be made available for the benefit of Norwegian society. It has been intended by the Centre Party and a majority in Norway ever since the concession laws were passed in 1917. Much important in the Norwegian industry is based on the concession laws and the right of repatriation. Many jobs are created, and it has added great values to our society. In addition, we have built a power industry that contributes to great value creation. In other words, we have built important industries on the good management of our energy resources, and we also have a clear – and important – balance the interests of the power industry and Norwegian industry. This has happened as a result of a strategic and courageous thinking about governance for the best of Norwegian society. At the same time, we have had a clean and good relationship with our neighbouring countries, and we have developed both a gas pipeline system and a power exchange that works well. When national and social control is so important for the management of Norwegian energy resources, why would the government make us part of the EU Energy Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e242	I think it's exciting to see in history how the energy markets have evolved. I recognise the central party's important role in many areas here. I just think that the Central Party parliamentary leader understood the important role they had when we entered a Nordic energy market. It was a bourgeois government with a Central Party Council of States that made sure that we deregulated in the energy sector, which helped us to create a Nordic market, which is actually reaching more and more countries in the peripheral zone, among others. Baltic countries are becoming more and more involved in transmission cables. This means that in a practical, physical sense it is in that area, and in all other areas, EU countries we are dealing with. The Central Party should recognise that part of the forward-looking policy for a well-functioning energy market in which they were part of a bourgeois government. Thus, Norway and Norwegian energy markets and pricing are part of the European area. As Europe deregulates more in the future to remove bottlenecks, to reduce CO2 emissions, to contribute to better functioning energy markets, they look for the Nordic model with flow in the system and with greater exchange. It also makes it important to have a system and a market that can work within Europe. Many countries in Europe have a locked-in energy potential, not least on renewable energy, because individual countries have regulated so much. Fortunately, we have not had that in the Nordic countries because we have good exchanges. We therefore believe that the EU's third energy market package, which we believe we should be part of, contributes to both solving climate challenges and providing a better market. But the development – that we are part of it – is also an important part of the Nordic market, which we joined under the leadership of the Centre Party in 1990.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e252	It is true that we have always had good co-operation with our close neighbours and power exchanges, and we have also built an important gas export to Europe over the last decade. We have to export, but we don't have to be naive. What we are now discussing is to leave the governance of important aspects of our energy policy to the EU, and it is historyless. As a major power producer, our interests, regulation and governance of the power system are quite different from those in the EU. Our national interests can often be opposed to those of the EU. Unfortunately, the history of the Right Party and the Advance Party in this area is not very encouraging. Had the Right had been passed 20-30 years ago, the right of return would have been lost now, and if the Progress Party had obtained a majority in 1975, much of the oil rights would have been sold out. How can we believe that the two right parties in Norway, with their history, will be good enough to take care of Norwegian interests in meeting with the EU Energy Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e259	The Norwegian interests are that we produce enough energy, that we fill our needs, that we have a gradual development of the exchange to other countries, as we do now. But if we are to achieve the common CO2 emission targets, we need more green, stable power in Europe. This is why it is an important step in building more transmission cables, which help countries such as the United Kingdom to take a large part of their CO2 cut because they have stable access to power from a regulated form of power. The same thing applies to the Germans, they get more pieces attached to this. Then we don't abandon control through what's going on. We've been concerned that the constitutional conditions should be taken care of. ACER shall notify and may regulate to the authorities of Norway in order to ensure the functioning of the market. But basically, this is a positive direction, which follows the trend that Norway has been addressing, and in the last period the government also consulted the Stortinge when it came to a desire for a development in which energy markets actually become better functioning in Europe for the sake of climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e268	I can't actually hear the Prime Minister talking about what the Norwegian interests are. I hear the Prime Minister talk about joining the EU Energy Union for future regulation of the EU market. I hear the Prime Minister say that, in the interests of the United Kingdom, we should join the EU Energy Union. But where is the Norwegian interest taken into account? We have a clear balance in Norway between using power for industry to develop it and taking into account the Norwegian power industry. We have a fine balance sheet where we have not left the control of power regulation and power systems to anyone else, because it is as important for us as a large producer – unlike the EU, which is a large importer. So my question is, in fact, still quite steady: what Norwegian interests will the Prime Minister take care of through the EU Energy Union? Or is that the consideration of the United Kingdom and the EU seas that means that we are going into the Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e275	We take care of Norwegian interests through, for example: ensuring that the EU can deliver lower CO 2 emissions. We are part of the emission legislation for the ETS sector. This means that the more the EU can deliver in terms of reducing CO 2 emissions in Europe, the better the framework conditions for, for example. Norwegian power-intensive industry, which has CO 2 emissions in its usual process, and which depends on the absence of increased EU requirements to reduce the competitive advantage of their enterprises in the future. What may be a fundamental difference between the Centre Party and parts of the rest of political Norway is that we understand that when problems and challenges are global or regional, we also need global and regional solutions, and we need to participate in the solutions. In that case, the specific national interests in the short term are not national interests in the long term. In the short term, we can shut ourselves in. In the long term, for example: that the world solves the climate challenges and that we have functioning energy markets, crucially in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e291	There will be follow-up questions – first Ole André Myhrvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e296	As mentioned earlier, we have had a long history of power exchange with the rest of the world, but at the same time we have had full control of the power resources. In the case of cables, the idea has been that they are a natural extension of the Norwegian power grid and that it should therefore be Statnet that builds up and coordinates such cables. The government has now decided to privatize this. Anyone should, in principle, be able to apply for the construction of foreign tables. If many do, there will be increased costs for Norwegian consumers, both because they will have to pay for the network reinforcement in Norway when more power is exported, and because we want to import and adopt the same prices as, for example, in Scotland. Does this government think that it is right to organise the power system so that prices increase, both for Norwegian consumers and for Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e303	No, on the contrary. That is why we are concerned that we are extracting more renewable energy in Norway, and that is why we are concerned that we are meeting the objectives we have set for a higher renewable share, also beyond hydropower. I have experienced that it has also been the goal of the Storting, and then we have to make sure that we exchange and sell to other countries in order to contribute to it in the future. When a company is authorised to build a foreign table, it is also necessary to assess the situation for the domestic market, whether there is enough power, whether it will have price effects, and whether that also means capacity challenges. It has to be part of the price assumption for the companies if they come. At the same time, I believe that if we're always going to think that it's the public that does it, the danger is actually that the tax on consumers will increase. If Statnett is to expand everything, the danger is that what they have of monopoly situation in Norway can be transferred by the cable itself, greater than if it is private, where you look at the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e310	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e315	The most serious thing Norway can do is give up sovereignty, and it is a fact that neither the Norwegian authorities, the Stortinget nor the government can go in and control the new regulatory authority. It can only be managed from the European Union, in which we are fortunately not a member. Legal experts, professors Holmøyvik and Haukeland, and Stortinget's chief adviser in constitutional matters, Eivind Smith, say very clearly that the foundation of the Law Department is strikingly short. I cannot see that the position is correct, that you can deal with this issue without dealing with it under the Basic Law § 115. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows: Is the Prime Minister absolutely certain that this should not be dealt with under the Constitution § 115, and is Professor Eivind Smith wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e322	Based on the proposition made to the Stortinget, the Ministry of Justice and Security assesses the law department in those areas, and it states very clearly that the decisions under the Acer Regulation will not have a direct effect under national law in Norway, and thus there is no transfer of authority in the sense of the Basic Law. It's mentioned in the proposition. Today, in the European Committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained that there are aspects of this that we are looking at, and we will come back to the Stortinget once we have done so. Because some questions have been raised that the Department of Justice and Defence have not assessed in the work that has been done, and we would like to have them signed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e329	That information now comes from Prime Minister Erna Solberg, and it came to Stortinget earlier today, that it is self-esteemed that the assessment given to Stortinget has been too thin. That's why Ine M. Eriksen Soreide says it, and you have to look at the constitutional. Is it appropriate, then, to have such urgent treatment through the Stortinget to which it has now been proposed – that it should be dealt with in March, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs has notified the Stortinget this morning that this can be challenging for the Constitution, and when Prime Minister Erna Solberg now in the Grand Duchy, in full plenary, says that there may be aspects to this matter that have not been thoroughly sufficiently investigated, and that it may be challenging in the case of the Constitution § 115? The most serious thing about a government and a magnificence is to give up power to organs they themselves do not have power over – to give up sovereignty. Will Prime Minister Erna Solberg think it makes sense to spend longer and get a more thorough handling of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e335	The Prime Minister is not going to go into the proceedings of the Grand Duchy, in timetables for the committees of the Grand Duchy or in the proceedings. I believe that the country's legislative assembly is fully capable and capable of making its own decisions about it, without the guidance of the Prime Minister in the Question Time. But what we have done is to listen to the objections that have come after the matter has been transferred. The Legal Service has assessed that there was no transfer of authority. Some questions have been raised about this, and that is why we have today informed Storting that we want to take an extra round to clarify this aspect in more detail. Then we come back to Stortinget with a new review of it. How Storting will then put up his handling of the matter, is going to be the Storting's own prorogative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e340	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e345	I share the Prime Minister's assessment that Norway has clear offensive interests in that the market to which we are going to export is regulated in a way that we have an overview of and that we participate in the necessary bodies. But I think there are some questions that it would be beneficial to get a little clearer. One of them was up now. What, as far as I can see, is completely clear from the law department, goes on ACER. But there are still some questions for the energy regulatory authority, and there I would urge the government to ask the law department for a quick and clear clarification of the issues, which were mentioned. My two questions to the Prime Minister are: Firstly, can the Prime Minister confirm that decisions on new foreign tables will continue to be taken in Norway through Norwegian concession? Secondly, wouldn't it make sense to make sure that the state network operated on these foreign tables, so that you knew where the revenue from these went, and you had some national control over it? I think many of those who are positive would be more convinced if these questions were settled quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e356	Firstly, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also informed the European Committee of today, we will come back to the questions raised in the discussion of competence and transfer of competences in addition to the assessment made by the Acer department itself. As to whether the decision becomes Norwegian or not, yes, it becomes Norwegian. It is Norway that needs to deal with and ask if we are going to build new cables. That's an important part. So I believe that there is a basis for discussion whether it is necessary for a state-owned company that has a monopoly situation in Norway, responsible for the expansion, to take on the risk and responsibility for building that kind of cable, whether it can in fact mean that Norwegian tax authorities have to take the burden if you take errors in the risk assessments related to such a cable. Therefore, I believe that ensuring that private individuals also participate in this can actually help to limit the risk that Norwegian electricity customers will have to take the wrong decision bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e365	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. I want to use the opportunity to point out that we from the Labour Party are going to put a lot of emphasis on this last aspect, that is the ownership of new cables. I welcome the clarification that Norway is making the decision on new cables. I also believe that the discussion about the price impact of new cables is not fully understood in the public vocabulary. Much reasonable renewable energy is now being developed in our neighbourhoods, so that much of the time can be imported even more reasonably, for example. from Northern Germany and Denmark. But the issue of ownership of cables is important to us, and we're going to have that dialogue. I am the case rapporteur and look forward to good cooperation on this in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e372	I am familiar with the Workers' Party's desire to own everything, but it has some consequences in between, namely that the risk lies in the public domain. That risk assessment has to be taken. If cables are built that prove not to be profitable in the future, and they cannot be withdrawn, a company like Statnett had to cancel it in the form that parts of a surplus that would have gone to kindergartens or lower prices for Norwegian consumers would be used to write it down. When we look at some of the investments other state companies have made in energy in other countries, we see that the risk can be underestimated. We have depreciated quite considerable funds when investing abroad in companies that have held ownership abroad, but have had a monopoly management role in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e377	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e382	Norway has always been a port. From the first bus drivers established in Norway 10 000–11,000 years ago until today, the rich sea has been the basis for life, growth, prosperity and well-being. Some of the most important choices we face as a nation today are also taking place in the sea. Who shall possess the marine resources of the sea, who shall they gain? Are we going to continue using the billions from the community to sustain the life of the petroleum industry – which is negative for climate and the environment – or to invest in future-oriented industries? Do we do enough to make the sea rich even in the future? In short, how are we going to ensure that the seas benefit the community and the environment? The problem is that this government is adding up to the opposite. It is a fisheries policy in which young people are praised, where coastal communities can no longer afford to participate in fisheries, where conflicts around farming and the environment and local business interests are increasing to an extent. The Community is losing sight of the government's fisheries policy. At a time of low oil prices and where all countries have to convert to low emissions, the government is pursuing an industrial policy in which the development of new oil fields is massively subsidized and billions of petroleum projects are being used. It's a policy to be dependent on petroleum, not for a green shift. Overall, government policies lead to favoring the few, not the many. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether she can at least take three measures from the government that actually lead to better distribution and better environment with regard to the use of the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e391	Let me say it like this: I agreed with the first sentence of the questioner's post, the rest I think was completely wrong – then I don't want to take up all the premises that had been included in this. We lead an international leadership in the work against plastic in the sea. What we've done both by earmarking money for this and by working internationally to get plastic cleaning is of course important for what's happening in the ocean. The oil and gas activity we have is the reason Norway is the welfare society it is today. It's going to be oil and gas activity in the years to come in Norway, it's going to be the largest industry we have in value creation for years to come. But we are gradually building up other businesses in Norway to get more legs to stand on. We also see this when we see growth increasing; in the future, industrial growth is 4-5 pst. according to the Norwegian Industry barometer. We have to have even more of that. The tourism industry is increasing, the farming industry is increasing and has a significantly higher profitability. Now more capacity has also been announced that not only the prices, but also the volume of production can increase. That is what we see from the fact that many counties have very low unemployment rates – even in coastal areas. Fortunately, we have met the major challenges we had with low oil prices. That's why we're helping to create more jobs through the technology we had. We delivered an industrial message about land-based industry, which also has impulses to industry elsewhere. It's this week set up catapult projects that help us test and test new methods. They can be used both at sea and elsewhere. This helps to ensure more jobs, and I believe that the sum of the new measures this government is taking has renewed and significantly improved the actions and, in particular, the research activities related to raising new types of jobs. When it comes to general distribution, perhaps the most important distribution we make is the violent effort we now have on those who have the most difficulty in Norway, namely those who have problems with drugs and addiction. We have increased the capacity for treatment, and we are now also implementing a drug reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e402	The Prime Minister agreed in the first sentence that Norway is a port, but the next sentence about the time the first bus drivers came to the country is therefore disunity. It might be illustrative for her dealing with the facts. It's a fact that the prices of establishing itself as fish have gone into the world. They have increased by several hundred percent just to get the simple permission to fish — for young people today. Now you're going to have to go out by about four million. kr for what previously did not cost anything. It is the responsibility of this government. They've made sure that young people don't have the opportunity to get into fish. They even make sure that coastal communities have problems stacking enough crowns on the table to participate in this government's prize show. It is a system that is rigged for the few, and those who lose are coastal communities – young people along the coast. Does the Prime Minister see that this is a problem, or does it just continue as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e407	We manage our fishing resources better than any other region in the world does. We manage the world's largest and most important cod population in a way that makes it renewable and powerful. We do that because we regulate, because we make sure it's professional fishing, because we have control systems, and because we have landing systems. In it it is that there will be limitations in free fishing. It has been for very, very many years. When a gives that type of constraint, it's natural that a person gets some kind of pricing of what that constraint and the right is. What the representative Fylkesnes is not talking about is the fact that the fishing industry is profitable. So it is without subsidies today, while when it was free access to fishing, it was subsidised, it was not profitable, it was a poor profitability development for fishermen, it went up and down. Today it is a future industry, for one can deliver wages and returns at a high level to those who work there. That's why it also becomes a future industry, because it recruits people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e413	This is a description that I think there are only people in the Prime Minister's office and in some parts of the Ministry of Fisheries who believe. What is happening today is that more and more of the value creation goes away from the fishermen – those who actually do the work – and away from the coastal communities. Not least wear your youth to come in. An increasingly large part of the value creation will be transferred to the people who are sitting on the money bag. This we have a lot of reports about, that's the fact that a sure can refuse, but it's just as full of fact. How does the Prime Minister manage to turn this over to the future? Then I think it has to be linked to the fact that, for the Prime Minister, it is the future right to move ownership of the resource to a few, to move from coastal communities and to refuse young people to enter the fisheries – simply to move ownership to a few coastal riders. The basic question is: does the Prime Minister see that this may be problematic, that this may be... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e420	I see many challenges related to the regulation of fisheries in the future. I see not least the challenges of supplying enough raw materials to the land-based industry so that they can build markets out to be the stable supplier that makes them actually get returns. We have many areas in which we would like to have better returns. I also believe that it is important that we have distributed good ownership. But this is a limited resource, so there has to be an access regulation to ensure that it is not overfished. So that's the basic argument. When you say there are limits to who can start fishing, there is, because there is a limited resource. In fact, you have to have allowances and arrangements for the allowance system. So the question is, what distribution mechanisms do you have in that quota system? I think it is good that people in the fisheries are full-time fishermen, that they have a good salary, and that it is attractive for young people to supply fish for food in Norway – which means that we get more value creation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e427	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e432	Since the Right Party and the Advance Party took over the government power, they have not listened to a single warning against allowing oil drilling in vulnerable sea areas. This is completely new and has never happened before. The oil industry takes precedence over everything else, in front of fish, fishermen, the environment and renewable industries. Not later than 16 January, two days after the presentation of the Jeløya platform, the Minister of Oil and Energy offered oil companies to drill for oil in vulnerable coastal areas against the clear warnings of the Environment Directorate. One of the areas is 10 km from land and is important for fish, fishermen and seabirds. On 29 January, the Minister of Oil and Energy spoke about the Jeleya platform. He said that the government always focuses on environmental advice. The question is: does the Minister for Oil and Energy's statement that environmental advice is always the focus of attention, that we can expect a consistent overrun of absolutely all environmental warnings against oil drilling in vulnerable areas in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e439	The government focuses on environmental advice. This does not necessarily mean that there is no extraction in an area, but it means that there are limitations in the time of exploration, in the patterns of production that may be in the area, for example. ensuring that marine bird bodies, etc. not too much is being affected at vital times. That is why we are pursuing an active policy for both oil and gas activities and for restrictions related to the vulnerable areas. So there are several ways to manage natural resources in Norway than simply saying no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e444	Another side of this is the climate. In order to meet the Paris climate agreement, emissions must be cut sharply. Demand for oil and gas will fall. The Environment Directorate has therefore warned against opening up oil investments in 24th concession rounds that are not profitable over their lifetime. The State takes a large part of the economic risk of the exploration activity. It is stated in the Environment DG's assessment: ‘In view of this, the Directorate-General for the Environment believes that a thorough ex-ante assessment of the potential for profitability of any exploration and development activities in the Barents Sea should be carried out before blocks are released. In particular, we believe that this should be done for the northern part of the sea area, where there is every reason to believe that development will be even more demanding than it is in the Southern Barents Sea. [[...]] How does the government ensure that the State is not involved in financing exploration activities with a high risk of loss for the Norwegian community?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e454	When we are involved in financing exploration development, it is – point 1 – always a risk of not finding anything, and – point 2 – that what you find will not be profitable to extract. That means that there'll always be a side of loss by being involved in financing it. But the fact that we have a system that we have today for exploration has made us more involved, new methods to work after, and it contributed, among other things. new actors found the Sverdrup field and thus also the fourth largest instance of oil that we have had in Norway, which means a large field and a large value creation in the future. The oil and gas industry and the supplier industry have shown an enormous capacity to take on a different, future price picture. This means that the development costs are significantly lower today than before. It will make a positive contribution to this. But our main idea is that it should be private in all expansion companies, and they must also make a climate risk assessment, just as Statoil should.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e461	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e466	Many of us had the joy of righting Prime Minister Erna Solberg at the NHO Annual Conference, which was about the value of work. On questions about what it will require us to be able to work so much that the welfare community becomes viable, she replied, among other things. that we have to work all the time. In Political Quarter yesterday we heard Right-wing spokesmen in Kristiansand and the Labour Party spokesmen in Bodø, and they sounded to speak with exactly the same tongue on the question of full-time and part-time. Before, we've been together with the Right that we want the involuntary part-time to live, but now it can sound like it's a part-time will to life. The position of the Christian People's Party is another. We're too full-time for those who can and will work all the time, and we're for the public to take a greater responsibility for just realizing this. But we are also for family members its flexibility and freedom of choice. There are many good reasons to choose part-time. We know that every sixth of the pre-employment age does an unwanted care job for the sick, for the elderly and for the disabled. For many who work part-time, the answer is not necessarily full-time either. The alternative to part-time work may be out of work. So my question to the Prime Minister is, what's her point of view when it comes to people's possibilities of being allowed to choose whether they want to work full-time or part-time, and does the Prime Minister see any advantage of people working part-time well?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e477	If the choice is between not working and working part-time, it is absolutely an advantage for people to work part-time. It is an advantage that people can be connected to the labour market throughout their lives, both for updating and for knowledge, because it is difficult to come back after a long absence from the labour market, and then part-time is better than not working. But as a society, we must motivate a full-time culture. It's incredibly important in our society that we take out the potential that lies in our work. As I said at the NHO conference, the value of work is well-being. There is well-being for individuals by participating in the labour market — the large, important labour market in which a job is for the individual. But it's also well-being for our society as a whole, because we need the tax money and income to be able to finance future welfare schemes. Then there's a paradox that many people think there's baby mothers working most part-time. It's not. It's actually more adult ladies who work most part-time. It can be caused by different things. This may be because they do not get full - time jobs, and we must combat them. That means we have to work actively both in municipalities and in the state. Fortunately, we see that the number of full-time workers is increasing in Norway, but there is something about rotational arrangements and the way to organise it, not to be exposed to small fractions, and to finding ways to make it attractive. The second, of course, is also, as the representative Hareide points out, the burden of becoming a relative of a new generation, of having spouses or parents who are starting to need help. There we have a work going on with a so-called related strategy, and it is an important part of the news of big business and the ‘lifelong’ reform of older people’s policies to look at how we ensure that we do not overload, but ensure that all the relatives can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e484	I thank you for your answer. When the Prime Minister points to, among others: that there are many women – older women, or before the older working population –
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e492	- At my age, actually!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e497	– working part-time, we also know that it is that part of the population that does the most unwanted care work, among other things. for sick parents. I also think it is important that we recognise those who work part-time, for the important part they do there. It has come out, among other things. from Anne-Kari Bratten, who is the leader of Specter, who says that they ‘would rather go shopping on the CC West than work’. My question is: does the Prime Minister see the negative by giving that type of statement when we know how important it is to recognise the work of the entire population, including those who work part-time for very good reasons just to work part-time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e502	I believe that characterizing people's choices or people's living conditions is no trick anyway. I think someone chooses to go down to work because the other spouse may have been retired, and therefore wants to have more free time. It's also an individual choice, and you have to respect it. At the same time, I am concerned that those choices have some consequences for the women who do. It means a lower pension base. That means you're poorer as a retired person in the future. So you also have to make conscious choices when you do it, and know what the long-term consequences are. So there's no doubt that women my age and a little older than that do a lot of unpaid work for their own parents and not least for spouses who are a little older and who need help. We need to find good relief arrangements for them. But people have to respect that kind of choice. There's something to experience that you are going to help yourself, because parents have helped you grow up yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e509	There will be follow-up questions – Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e514	In the healthcare sector, there are particularly many people who work part-time involuntarily. Many are offered only small and very small job sizes. This particularly affects patients and users. Many of them get an incredible number of people to deal with just for that reason. In addition, it is difficult for the sector itself to obtain good practice and quality and to build good skills when you have so many employees in involuntary part-time jobs. My question to the Prime Minister is: What concrete measures does the Prime Minister have to ensure an overall culture in the health and care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e521	This is one of the things that, for example: in the specialist health service and hospitals, the dialogue that is taking place is followed up on the need for more full-time jobs. There is a significant increase in the number of full-time jobs. We have a major challenge related to the care sector in municipalities, where there are more people working part-time. This is also a lot about getting good tour planning, which allows you to build full-time positions. It is about having a good relationship between the trade unions and local management, so that you can make use of it so that you can move between two departments in a nursing home and do not experience it as a barrier. There is a lot of practical work to do. I've been to Vea's nursing home several times outside Haugesund, which has managed to have almost just full-time jobs, but they're working a completely different turn. That's the answer they came up with when they went through and made analyses: they work long-term, because then they get more quiet and full jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e530	There are many in Norwegian working life who work part-time and can do nothing but work part-time. The Prime Minister himself said that it is better to work part-time than not to participate. Many people have a disability or a health that makes a person actually have no choice: either part-time or nothing. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that more people have the opportunity to work part-time, to be part of Norwegian employment and to have the community that is important to everyone else, in order to be able to participate in Norwegian employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e537	Many people continue to work in a smaller job position when they have become partially disabled. It seems that our working life is not so bad to deal with people falling into position, but it's pretty bad to hire people who are partially disabled, in a new position. That's one of the reasons why we, on the government side, have said that we need to have an inclusion table. We need a lot closer follow-up of the employers. The state needs to improve the recruitment of people — whether full-time or part-time — with disabilities or disabilities, with the means available, in the form of wage subsidies and other schemes, in order to master it. But we need to experience something else now that we've finally gotten rid of the high unemployment rates and see a much more normalized situation in the labour market – there's actually a shortage of labour in many states. We have to use this room to get more out of that situation. There are many people who have lost their job, who are partially disabled, and who experience that it is very difficult to get that kind of job. It's a goal, and then we get back to the tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e544	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e549	Global companies with digital income models often pay very little tax, perhaps down to 0.1 pst. They are world champions of advanced and digital tax adjustment. Right-hand standard response to climate action and to so-called Google tax seems to be quite similar: we have to wait for the international solutions to be put in place, and then we point to the OECD in this case. It'll be a little bit like waiting for Godot. Within climate, we have been waiting for a global CO 2 price for over 30 years, but in the EU we now see two tracks – one track for fast countries and one track for those who want to go at a slower pace. Germany and France are acting on their own initiative to tax the new digital platforms, such as: the new agreement between Amazon and France illustrates. My question is: Is the government's primary objective in the field of digital tax evasion to sit and wait for an internationally harmonised solution, or does the government work to stay in close touch with countries like Germany, France or our Nordic neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e561	I would like to stress that we are not sitting and waiting for international regulations on the environment and climate etc. CO 2 pricing was first carried out by a Right-Handed Government, in 1990, so we were in front of a lot of countries, and that was actually under the leadership of a bourgeois government. So to the question that, in my opinion, is quite timely, and a challenge that I experience is the theme of all countries in the industrialised part of the world: how do we ensure that the big new platforms, the big new companies, that are global, have to pay taxes, and how do we make rules for it? For competition reasons, it is important that we actually ensure that it is a global regulatory framework. As a small country, it is difficult to set the rules just for us. Then maybe the activity will go away. Then maybe it'll happen in other ways. But we're busy and we're working hard on this, both in the OECD and in other international bodies, to get transparency, exchange information and look at different types of tax systems. The secret of bank information is now a long way off history, so we've come a long way in some of this, but what we need now is tax models. And some of what the EU is doing now, among other things. by imposing on both Luxembourg and Ireland that companies there pay taxes, they also raise the platform for what can be done in the future. But our main concern is to find solutions in cooperation with other countries, within the OECD, to get good models to do this. But we also work – as stated in the tax communication we presented two years ago, which is the basis for the tax reform – with the areas where it is possible to make changes within today's system. One of them is the interest-restriction rule for companies that move on activity. So we're looking at this precisely because we think it's important that these companies pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e576	Yes, then we heard again that we are pointing to the OECD. The Prime Minister is promoting competition, but the problem is that international global companies do not pay taxes, while Norwegian digital companies do. So it's a huge competitive disadvantage for the Norwegian companies that we have today's arrangement. And there are signals now that indicate that Germany and France choose to go ahead with national solutions. It is not optimal, but sitting and waiting can lead to a reduced welfare state and reduced competitiveness for Norwegian business. So, what will the Prime Minister do specifically to ensure that Norway is in the hold and implement new solutions, along with, for example, Germany and France, not just pointing to the OECD or waiting for the international agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e583	We are actively working to get an international code on these issues. At national level, we have worked, among other things. with regard to transparency, country-to-country reporting on accounting and securities legislation, which was introduced from the financial year 2014. We have gone ahead in these matters. So we're working with transparency, we're working with new tax rules, but introducing a separate tax in Norway completely regardless of what happens in other countries, or in groups of countries, could also have a negative impact on activity. For example, it has been clear from Stortinget that it is a strong wish that we should be a country where we have data centres. We have lowered the electricity charge for these data centres, and we have now ensured – and this also has a majority on Stortinget – to reduce the machine tax, and it also helps to use it. However, if we make specific rules related to digital taxation in Norway, we can say no to some of the commercial activities that have been widely wanted to be in Norway. So we have to see two things at once. It is therefore important that we have global common rules, at least regional common rules for Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e592	It's great that the government works for openness. Here are a few more concrete ideas, and I am curious whether the Prime Minister wants to implement some of them, for example. requirements to publish what companies pay in taxes in each country where they are traded when operating in Norway or to use the oil fund to impose fiscal transparency on companies in which we have invested and new requirements for what ‘place of business’ implies. Then you can also take the initiative of a United Nations Conference on Tax and Financial Transparency. What about taking the initiative to negotiate Norway's accession to the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, which is an ongoing work in the EU? And finally, to investigate and start negotiations on uniform taxation into the multinational tax agreements, such as: the Nordic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e599	I made one of my most important points when I was a co-leader of the World Economic Forum 14 days ago, the fight against corruption, for transparency and for people paying taxes. It is part of what is important for sustainability goals to function globally, because we see that very much of the resources in developing countries have been retained in those developing countries and have been able to contribute to raising development, and self-financing is extremely important. Therefore, this is a high profiled and priority area. That is why we contributed and participated in the anti-corruption conference held in London two years ago. And that's why I also agreed to contribute to the OECD meetings on this, just to make sure that there's a high pressure on this, because this is part of achieving the sustainability goals. I think that those who have seen me at the international arena know that both Google, Facebook and others have heard exactly this from me, that they have to pay taxes, and that we are going to work for initiatives that make them pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e606	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e611	Today we have a situation where according to the government it is forbidden for a municipality to prioritize ideal kindergartens in front of profit-bearing gardens. The government put its ban in a circular after municipalities like Oslo, Trondheim, Bodø and Tromsø decided that they would stop the welfare professionals and instead expand new kindergartens in municipal and non-profit private direction. While the Right refuses to stop commercial kindergartens, the Right imposed a ban on building new municipal kindergartens when they ruled the capital. In other words, civil policy must be law, but red-green policy must be illegal. This is absurd. But yesterday, the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party signaled that they support changes in the law that make it clear the right to distinguish between ideal and commercial kindergartens. It was just supposed to be missing. It is about ensuring that tax money, granted to kindergartens, goes to the best of the children and not to the private enrichment of companies like Espira and their owners in the tax haven of Guernsey. The right to distinguish between ideal and commercial was also confirmed by Fylkesmannen in Oslo and Akershus, who gave the municipality of Oslo the right to stop the kindergarten bus. Similarly, Jusprofessor Tarjei Bekkedal, who concluded that the Kindergarten Act allows municipalities to decide for themselves who will receive a grant. Bekkedal's word is that the municipalities have democratic freedom to choose other than the commercial actors. My question is: Will the government now take the signals from Stortinget and withdraw the instructions that prohibit municipalities from prioritizing non-profit kindergartens over commercial kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e622	It is a challenge that the EEA legislation we have makes it more difficult – not impossible, but more difficult – to discriminate between ideal and commercial, or, as I would say, privately-initiated activities in some of these sectors of care, such as health care. kindergartens. That also means, and I think that's an important lesson to remember for the Storting, that it's not the politicians who bear the cost of being convicted of giving illegal subsidies and illegal rules. It's actually the one that has received subsidies, that does. So the risk project where we don't feel we're on the right side of this legislation can actually contribute to the ideal experience of having a competitive advantage, like those who might have to pay back at that time. That is why we are very busy not postponing the ideals for grey zones in the law that makes it the ones who are left with responsibility afterwards. It is an important framework condition, and therefore it is important for us to think through whether what we are doing will conflict with the legislation or not. Then I want to say that this aggression against private measures, the aggression against private kindergartens, I don't know it or – I think – the Norwegian people are left in it. Recently, there was a clear assessment of the relationship with private kindergartens, the parents' assessment, where private kindergartens cut significantly better than public and other kindergartens. We should be happy about that, because that means we have a good offer for the kids. Kindergartens are there for the children, and I believe that private kindergartens help public kindergartens to become more innovative, have thought differently, do so in other ways. We're getting a wider offer. We as parents can choose between outdoor children’s gardens, craft-oriented kindergartens, sports children’s gardens – a great diversity. That's why it's important, in my opinion, that we don't put ties on it, but let parents get the most choice possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e629	The EEA has nothing to do with the rules on grants to kindergartens. I think a lot of people react to the fact that kindergarten owners like Benn Eidissen and Even Carlsen make a quarter of a billion dollars each when they sell themselves out of Norlandia, money that comes from our parents' payment and from our tax money. Paragraph 14(a) of the Kinderhagen Act states: «Public grants and parental benefits shall be paid to children in kindergarten. Kindergarten may have a reasonable annual profit or loss.» In our view, this is a contradiction. Should all the money go to the best of the children, money cannot be taken out of the kindergarten. It's like falling from the Preike Chair and surviving, it's "Mission Impossible," and Jan Tore Sanner is no Tom Cruise. Does the Prime Minister see that the Kindergarten Act is contradictory in its Section 14(a)?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e643	I would never have underestimated Jan Tore Sanner's abilities, at least not with the help of a good stuntman, on the way to doing something. One of the things he's good at is making sure we have a good code. We have said that we should go through the legislation relating to allocations to private, competition, public acquisitions, etc., to ensure the functioning of the markets – precisely because it should not be super-profit. It may well be that there are some places where there has been super-profit out of this, because in regulation and eagerness after the expansion of kindergartens you didn't think so much through where there are the values at the end. I think today's situation is a completely different one. It is not easy to make as much money as any of those who got empty free of charge at an earlier time, without having done the regulatory work well enough, now in the future. But in sum we must not extract the baby with the bath water here, and it is about that more offers with greater freedom of choice for parents are good. The nursery services are getting better, and we also see that from parents' own assessment. Private kindergartens get good scores.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e650	Yesterday, Right Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde said that the Workers' Party is allying with Red against the commercial kindergartens. There are now changes, more and more reacting to large values being taken from kindergartens to private enrichment. But not the Right, and that's strange, because the Right supports the curfew in school. As Höres Henrik Asheim has said, you can't take any dividends, and it's fair and reasonable all the time this is a publicly funded offer. But in the case of another publicly funded offer, i.e. kindergartens, the Right is opposed to a profit ban. So according to the Right, it's right that owners take money granted to kindergarten children, while it's wrong that owners take money granted to kindergarten children. It's hard to understand the logic. So I want an answer on this discrimination. What is the principal difference between a five-year-old in kindergarten and a six-year-old in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e657	Schools are a mandatory offer where the content is clearly and clearly regulated and which is part of the great knowledge effort. Kindergartens are a voluntary offer. Fortunately, most children go to kindergarten. It's a big government grant, but there's also a history behind it that needs to be remembered. When you had a wide deal to get more kindergartens, you invited private ones to participate. Many municipalities gave free plots, they contributed with great value to solve the challenge of kindergartens. Many people started up by pawning houses and other things in order to create a kindergarten and contribute to this realization. Then there has been a consolidation and more professionalisation in the private sector. Looking back, it is quite possible that you should not have been so willing to distribute free things to something that became private afterwards, but we are in a way done with that. Today I believe that we do not have the same opportunity. Then we go through how to ensure that these markets work well. But what is Red's crusade is a crusade for less freedom of choice, lower quality, and that those who have actually proved that they are their parents most satisfied with need to get worse working conditions. And then the kids get a worse offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e665	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e670	For the parents who send their children to school, it is important that the children learn that they are safe and sound that they are at school. Then we need a lot of good teachers. Unfortunately, we are facing a teaching shortage that can become serious. The introduction of a teacher’s norm, which is actually contrary to the government’s wishes, reinforces this challenge. On this government’s watch, the use of unqualified teachers in school has increased and was the highest in the 2016–2017 school year. Nevertheless, the recruitment of teachers does not seem to bring down the use of unqualified people to be at the top of the government's agenda. The teaching norm, which, according to the Christian People's Party, is the most important school policy decision of this millennium, is not mentioned in the government platform. The platform mentions the recruitment of teachers once and lacks action. This does not give the impression that the government has a plan to solve the challenges. It becomes, as others have pointed out, so that the government steers with open eyes towards increasing teaching shortages. The Labour Party has been proposing several teachers for several years. The Right Party and the Advance Party have opposed this. The right has not proposed funding for a single new teacher in its own draft budget, while we are clear that more teachers need to be employed in school in order to implement early work, and that each student is seen. We have also proposed several measures to recruit teachers and get the students to start the profession, and we want a lift for unqualified people. The fact that the use of unqualified in classrooms increases year after year is the opposite of a qualified teacher meeting the students. My question is, When will the Prime Minister do something about it, and when can parents and students expect the numbers to turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e681	There are several reasons why unskilled people are increasing in Norwegian school. One of them is that we have many in continuing education, which is a short-term promise we have to take to raise teachers to a higher level of competence in the subjects in which they are to be taught, and which enables us to achieve the goals we have for everyone to meet teachers who are competent in the core subjects in the future. An important part of this is to ensure that respect for the teaching profession increases, which will also help to increase the recruitment of the teaching profession. It'll take time. The second reason is that we've been through two extensions of the teacher's years. The first extension we had was from three years to four years, which made a year coal come out later. Then we now have an extension that will mean that when several people take five years of education – and that’s a twist from ordinary teacher education to the lecturer’s courses that have been going on for several years now – it makes a few people get out of school once, but in a few years, there will be more at the same time. These are different reasons. We are concerned that we should make the teaching profession an attractive profession. Unlike the Working Party, it does not mean lowering the requirements. There is no party that has had a more wobbly strategy related to teacher issues. They talked about continuing education, but they didn't do anything when they had the power. They've been against when we've increased the requirements, and then they've been in favour, and now they're in opposition again. It's an interesting lack of strategy that I don't think contributes to our long-term commitment to respect the teaching profession. I don't think we can meet the situation now by lowering the requirements we've set ourselves for the future. On the contrary, we have to stick to them, and then we have to work with other measures to recruit even more people. One of the most important things we have to do is make sure that we get more people going through, not just applying, but actually leaving a teacher's education with an education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e692	The right rhetoric goes on idling. The working party is in order to have a high standard of competence for teachers. That's why the Red-Green government introduced skills requirements for teachers in the first place. We're trying to eliminate the separation of teachers, and we're trying to use other tools to get a lot of weight in school, that's to find a better way to the goal, where the teachers are being trusted. If we are to have quality in the classroom, we need to look at the results of the policy that is being pursued. After four and a half years with this government, the proportion is unqualified skyscrapers. The search for teacher training has declined. The dropout is too high – over 40 pst. on individual training courses. And too many educated teachers don't start in the profession. So far we do not see the results of this policy. Now there's a teacher's norm. We can then fear that if the government does not implement it properly, and it is not fully financed, then this may affect other measures in the municipalities, for example. to school, health and the elderly. Will the government ensure full funding of the teachers’ norm, so that this challenge is not reinforced and affects other areas of well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e703	We're going to co-finance the teacher's norm as it is. This is an agreement we have, and there's money in the budget for it. We have also gradually built up to introduce a teaching norm through the measures that we have agreed on at Stortinget – the four parties – in the previous period, where there has been an increase in the number of teaching years in the municipal sector. We're going to keep working on it. It is true that there are a little too few people who have applied for teacher training now. We're now down to the red-green level. I don't think that's satisfactory. I think we're going back up to a high level in the future. What we see, however, is that we have had a significant increase, especially in the teaching studies at universities. And now when we get a five-year teacher training, we also hope that it will enhance the attractiveness of the more traditional teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e710	There will be follow-up questions – Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e715	For the Workers' Party, the whole of school policy is important. The Prime Minister stands here and only describes the problem. The Labour Party has seen the need to take action. We can't just go on like before. The introduction of a teaching norm means that we alone will need 2,500 new teachers. Rigid entry requirements in teacher training have unfortunately caused applicants to fall, especially in primary school teacher training. And when skills requirements have retroactive effect, it increases teaching shortages, and it increases the use of unqualified people in school. It's this whole thing that makes us in the Workers' Party take hold. I'm actually a little surprised that the Right is so passive in the meeting with this teaching shortage and the increase in the number of unqualified, because the Workers' Party has in the past always had the company of the Right in being concerned with the whole of school policy when one sees such serious consequences. In the answers from the Prime Minister now it seems that we have to wait ten years, until the requirements for competence have been put in place, before the Right is willing to participate and look at the whole. My question to the Prime Minister is: How long must we wait before the Right again becomes fully involved in school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e724	We are concerned with the whole of school policy. There's been a powerful effort on the teacher's promise in the last few years. There has never been such a strong commitment to continuing education. It lay flat for eight years with red-green policies. You talked about it, but you didn't. We have introduced five-year teacher training, which means that we get a slightly larger shortage of teachers for a period, because those who are to be re-trained go one year further to school, but they get out more qualified. We've put in place specialist schemes at school. We have requirements for better competence. All of this is in total a great commitment to just knowledge and competence. As I said at the end of my first answer: the challenge is not only who comes, but also how many go out. It's a challenge for teacher education institutions that it's almost just 60 pst. which completes teacher training. And one of the reasons why you're going to end up with math. It has to be a little bit better to be able to do a little bit more math before you start, instead of going for two years and then ending and couldn't go on. That's why I think it's a good idea to have a long-term strategy for this, and that's what we have in the hands of the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e735	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e740	This winter we have experienced that patients have been out in the cold for hours and waited for a return trip from the hospital or medical treatment, without any transportation coming. It's completely incomprehensible, and it's quite unworthy, but it's a problem that we also know from other parts of the country. At the same time, it seems that no one is taking responsibility for the situation that arises – we are going to engage in dialogue, we are sorry that we have so many deviations, we are going to see if there is a lack in our system that we have emphasised seriously. The type of opinions goes on, while this whole unworthy situation continues. My claim is that this is typical of a public sector where responsibility is organised away. First, you organise hospitals as a business, then you create a patient travel company, and then things start out on the offer. The result is that no one takes responsibility for solving a situation like the one we're now in. The government does not take responsibility, the council refers to the health companies, the hospitals refer to the patient travel company, and the patient travel company says that we should try to close the deviations, as it says so nicely. Health treatment and transportation to and from hospitals is a public responsibility. It's a legal responsibility. It's a political responsibility. What responsibility will the Prime Minister take for this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e749	I believe it is totally unacceptable that taxi companies do not comply with the agreements they have entered into with healthcare companies on the transport of patients. In the event of non-compliance, agreements should be reviewed and, where appropriate, terminated, and other solutions found. It's the simple and straightforward message related to the question. You have to be clear about that. So it happens at the conclusion of new agreements that it sometimes takes a little while before you're all going on with the new, but that's totally unacceptable what we're seeing today. This means that health-care establishments must include them in their report that breach of the contract may result in the ultimate consequence of termination of the contract and in a new bidding round. I also know that Oslo University Hospital is assessing whether they can establish their own transport service to ensure home transport for the sickest patients. It will also provide a relief related to this. They haven't come up to the department with that yet. I am primarily concerned that patients should receive a good transport offer wherever they are. It is the responsibility of regional health establishments for transport for research and treatment. It follows from the Specialist Health Service Act. That means that there is a clearly placed responsibility. It's not undecided. In the law, it's a custody responsibility. This means that the health business must intervene and ensure that the good services are provided unless this is done. As regards the legislation on acquisitions, both price and quality are important criteria for the evaluation of tenders. You also have to take up the quality criteria and not just the price question. Then this is also black out to Stortinget from the Minister of Health and Welfare, or the Minister of Health now, in more detailed answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e763	I hear the Prime Minister wants this to be a situation to be resolved, but it is not solved. This has been going on in Oslo since long before Christmas. Over 1,200 taxi trips have just been cancelled, and patients are waiting. This is a problem we also recognise from other parts of the country, from Finnmark, from the Nordic countries, from Valdres – everywhere. And then the prime minister says in rather strict order that we have to solve it. How is that going to be solved? Will the government now give direct notice to health businesses to get it done, instead of sitting and waiting for notifications to get up in the system? For the Prime Minister said here that the message has not yet come into the system. One doesn't have to sit and wait for it. The government can decide that something has to be done about this situation: we give notice immediately, this should not continue, this matter has to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e768	It is such that the message of questions about establishing a dedicated transport service, which Oslo University Hospital has assessed for the sickest patients, has not come up. The question related to this is clear and clear: it is a responsibility of the health care provider to deliver it, and that is how to deliver in their care-care areas. That means that it has to be solved by Health South-East quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e775	There will be follow-up questions - Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e780	The NRK said in December about the 71-year-old cancer woman from Brønnøysund who spent 13 hours getting to and from Helgelands Hospital for a treatment that took 40 minutes, i.e. twice as long as the travel normally takes. The reason was not that one had a problem with the offer, but that the healthcare company would deliberately save money by picking up several patients on the road. The administration should create the patient's health service. But the patient’s health service seems to stop at the exit door of the outpatient clinic. Outside there is the health service of the money. So this isn't just about taxiing, and my question is: Will the Prime Minister take responsibility for his health care professionals and stop debting down the system on a patient-friendly system that pulverizes responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e789	We take responsibility for health companies on the part of the government, but we are also very clear that once we have adopted a health company model, responsibility and governance should not be done by dealing with individual matters, but by being clear on the main lines of governance. It is the Stortinge that has decided that there should be a health company model for hospitals. It also means taking responsibility for how governance is done. Single treatment cannot be either the responsibility of the Prime Minister or the Council of State, but if it turns out that poor services are systematically provided, the questions to health firms need to be addressed. And that's how patient travel is a care-taking responsibility that companies have. It is their basic responsibility to provide good services. It's part of the patient's healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e800	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e814	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question No 1, by Mr Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Finance has been withdrawn. Question 18, from the representative of Kristoffer Robin Haug to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be addressed by the representative of Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e828	From the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Finance: ‘Government will simplify the VAT system and reduce the number of bets. The NHO and the travel industry point out that the government has weakened Norway as a travel-life destination by increasing VAT. From 8 to 12 pst. This has also resulted in a more expensive and less accessible cultural offer for most people. The unpredictable increase in VAT, in two rounds, has led to a weakening on the bottom line of the industries of the contracts and agreements already concluded. How are fewer VAT bets to be set up, and what bets should be removed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e835	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e843	‘The NRC has, after New Year’s, switched its district news broadcasts on television from one 15-minute broadcast before the Dayrevy to three short news updates sent three times during the evening. The shipments involve fewer cases and much less content than the offer the NRK had before the conversion. Does the Council of State believe that this conversion is fulfilling the NRK’s public broadcasting mission, and how will the Council of State ensure that the NRK can offer enough news from all over the country on television?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e850	As I know from the media, the representative Schlagsvold Vedum knows that, with effect from 29 January, the NRK has re-released its district broadcasts on television. The NRK now has a ten-minute news dispatch before noon. 19 and two broadcasts in five minutes before noon. 21 a.m. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox The change was decided as a result of reactions from the audience. The NRK says seafaringly that they underestimated the strong relationship many have to the television news from their district. I very much appreciate that the NRK in this way shows that they listen to signals from their audience and actually adjust the course accordingly. So to the issue of NRK's public broadcasting mission: we have a well-established and well-functioning system for overseeing NRK's public broadcasting mission, which is based on the Broadcasting Act. This system assumes that the broadcaster is responsible for the current editorial activities of the NRK within the overall and long-term frameworks laid down by this room in the NRK poster and the NRK statutes. Media surveillance oversees the compliance of the NRK with the public broadcasting mission, regardless of the ministry. The public broadcasting report submitted by the Media Regulatory Board to the NRK General Assembly each year provides the government and the Stortinget with a basis for assessing the need for changes in the NRK’s mission. The aim of this system is to ensure the principle of editorial independence and to counteract politically motivated involvement in editorial assessments. It is therefore not intended to give an assessment of whether the NRK in this case fulfils its mission or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e861	In the NRK poster, it is quite clear that the NRK should reflect the geographical diversity of Norway and have a good local offer. It goes on to say that the NRK is to be present in all the counties of the country – now fewer counties are due to an unwise regional reform. Will you then feel that there will be a centralization in the NRK, or will the NRK reflect the geographical diversity and be present in what has been all 19 states of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e866	We haven't discussed that with the NRK yet. The reform of the region is in process, and perhaps we are using different concepts about the regions in the future than what is currently referred to in the legislation. I notice that the NRK is now trying to have a strategy where you use regional offices more to also produce national news, which I think is a positive grip. This means that more regional and local news is coming up and being lifted as national news, and that it is not just Oslo’s local news that becomes national news. I also think it is important to have that aspect here of if the NRK is to develop large regional offices, it is also a challenge for the whole range of local news firms we have, who have given us local viewers, local television, local radio, local podcasts – all the local initiatives that are there. The NRK shall have no objective of being a monopoly company which stops it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e875	When the NRK poster and the social purpose of the NRK were discussed, and then you were to have with all the counties of the country, there were 19 counties. Then there was a political treatment of it. Now the number of counties is reduced – they are merged and centralised. That's why it's a change. That is why it is a political decision that must be made if we are to reduce from 19 to, for example. 10 regional units within the NRC, for the premises are different. What does the Council of State think is right? Does the Council of State intend to continue to have a structure that is present in all 19 counties of the country, and will the Council of State possibly come to the Grand Duchy with its own case where the geographic structure of the NRC is being discussed in the future, now that the regions have changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e882	The government platform announces that we, for example: shall make an alternative to the licence. I hope that the Center Party will be involved in the dialogue. That means there are messages coming to this hall where we have the opportunity to discuss this in the future. I also hope that the Centre Party will participate in the dialogue and reach a broad consensus. We can't have an agreement on the NRK, which only depends on one or two parties in this hall. We have to have a much larger width behind such an agreement. This is also part of that debate. I hope that the representative is also committed to not only having an NRK that is spread across the country, but also having a media policy that ensures our locality, which is such an important part of both our local identity and media consumption in Norway, where we have great confidence in our local authorities. They have been important to develop local identities. We must also ensure that this balance is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e892	My question is: ‘School performance pressures are a factor affecting the mental health of children and young people. Professionals point out that the pressure and stress are propagating in the nursery. The framework plan put in place on 1 August 2017 makes it clearer that kindergartens must have a systematic pedagogical work. Does the Council of State see a danger that kindergartens will be more organized as school-preparing institutions and how should ‘systematic pedagogical work’ be understood?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e901	The framework plan is a regulation of the Kindergarten Act, and all the country's kindergartens are obliged to follow it. The content of the framework plan does not justify claiming that kindergartens are more organised as school-preparing institutions. Psychiatric health is one of the government's most important areas of activity, and the government strengthens the prevention of health work. There are very different and complex reasons why children and adolescents become stressed and develop mental disorders. Some of the reasons may be in school, but many are also outside the school’s influence. I refer here to the answer to question 23 in the Question Time on 8 November 2017, where the then Minister of Knowledge Henrik Asheim explained what the school is doing to counter negative stress. Kindergarten shall provide safe and good care and, at the same time, stimulate play, learning and development on the premises of children. The framework plan highlights that kindergarten has a health promotion and prevention function and that it should promote the physical and mental health of children. The kindergarten shall be a pedagogical activity and good pedagogical work in itself is characterised by systematics. As a knowledge minister, I would be concerned if the pedagogical work in the kindergarten was not systematic. The framework plan states that staff should plan, think and act in the long term and systematically, and that this must be based on knowledge of the well-being and diverse development of children. This requires kindergarten teachers who are trained specifically in order to be able to carry out the tasks of kindergarten. One of the main findings in research is that the competence of staff is the main single factor in the well-being and development of children, and the government is concerned that the staff in kindergarten should have a high level of competence. The proportion of pedagogues in kindergarten has increased in recent years. In 2018, approximately 400 million will be used. on measures to promote the quality of kindergarten. It's more than a double from 2013. In addition, 424 million. This is reflected in the community's framework grant to several kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e914	Thank you for your answer. Play is an essential part of young people's lives and development, and play has its own value. The centre party is concerned with good transitions between kindergarten and school, but is sceptical about the pattern in which the kindergarten with a new framework plan becomes more similar to the school, with increased pressure on learning activities rather than free play. As mentioned above, school experience shows that students experience pressure and stress as a result of increased focus on results and testing. Now that kindergarten teachers are planning, acting and thinking systematically, can the Council of State guarantee that the government will not impose on kindergarten teachers increased requirements for the documentation and monitoring of single children as part of the educational activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e923	I look forward to the good work done in Norwegian kindergartens. We also see from the parental studies that parents are very happy with the kindergartens. Then it is true that in recent years, in close cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have prioritised the number of pedagogues in kindergartens. We now also have a standard for the number of employees in kindergarten, and we give priority to building skills. But that doesn't mean that kindergarten is going to be more equal to school. Kindergarten is a nursery, which is designed to provide good and safe care and stimulate play, learning and development on the premises of children. That's the way it has been, and that's the way it should be. So we know that children who have gone to kindergarten, often do better at school, because in kindergarten they work with fine motor and language development, and I see no difference between that and that the children have good care and a lot of free play.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e930	So we do not receive an answer to documentation requirements. But what we have documented, and a slightly different challenge in school that I want to highlight, is that NRK P2 this morning reported that ADHD is among the most common mental disorders among children and young people in Norway today. There was a tripling of ADHD cases in two years at the health company Health Fonna. More children and young people are referred to the BUP, and more and more people get a diagnosis. The hospital director there, Eikeset, says it is positive that those in need of mental health care get it, but at the same time worrying that there is an increase in the number of referrals and diagnostics with ADHD. This may include, inter alia: be an expression that more children and young people are struggling to adapt to school, school systems, etc. What kind of improvement potential and opportunities do the Councils of State see in school and the school system, so that children do not feel that they need to adapt to these frameworks in which they should fit?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e937	To the previous question, we have no plans to introduce any new documentation requirements into the kindergarten. Then we got a report last fall, which came after the then knowledge minister had asked for it, to look at the knowledge base related to stress in school. It's a reality that you experience more stress – it's also, I think, a reality that you encounter outside of school. There is also a reference to what can be done to prevent and mitigate stress at school, and it is about engaged teachers and good teaching, and even distribution of work tasks as an important part of it. This has a high priority from the government. It should be safe and well in kindergarten and school. It also provides the best basis for good learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e947	«Before Christmas, the Ministry of Communal and Modernisation provided an overview of the most efficient municipalities in the Ministry. Resource use is compared between different municipalities. The overview gives a narrow picture of quality, especially in kindergarten. Increased staffing and high levels of education in kindergarten will result in lower efficiency in this measurement. The measurement does not look at well-being, sick leave or children’s educational benefits. Does the Council of State think this is a good way to measure and manage school and kindergarten?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e954	The effectiveness study in the municipalities to which the representative Henriksen refers has been carried out for several years and was first carried out in 2011, with data from 2008. In the autumn of 2016, it was first published on the government’s website and thus made more available. The municipalities are assessed against comparable municipalities. The most effective municipalities are references against which comparable municipalities are measured. The overall objective of the survey is to gain knowledge of how the public sector can improve. It's about working smarter, not running faster. In the study, researchers look at differences in efficiency between municipalities, but it does not measure the effectiveness of the best municipalities. Therefore, a new standard of manning can help to reduce the differences, as there will be clearer requirements for minimum staffing in kindergartens. The analysis shows that many municipalities have the potential to make better use of resources and better services by learning from others. Municipalities that think new and work smarter can release resources to more and better kindergartens and better schools. This study is just one of many ways to gain knowledge about kindergarten and school. It doesn't provide a fasitistic response, but it can, along with a lot of other information we have about quality in school and kindergarten, be a good starting point for thinking about using resources. For example, the Education Directorate asks: annual employees, owners and authorities, including: competence development and psychosocial environment. The study provides useful information as a basis for further policy development. I also get important information about the situation in Barnehage-Norway through the recently published parental survey. It's a pleasure to have over 90 pst. of the parents are satisfied with the offer. Although the satisfaction is high, I hope that all kindergartens and owners will use the study to be changed better. I can reassure the representative Henriksen that the Minister of Knowledge has and will regularly have a broad and good knowledge base for further policy development in the field of school and kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e971	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I perceive that the Council of State believes that this measurement is also useful. In any case, the Council of State was very pleased with it when he presented it as Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation before Christmas. No one is against knowledge. The challenge is how to use the figures, and how to measure them politically also contributes to what is a priority in the municipalities. In this study, it is black on white that increased staffing in kindergarten will result in lower efficiency in this measurement. KS thought this would give a narrow picture of the nursery. The Landsförbund of Private Barnehager calls this way of measuring pointless and irresponsible. The Education Association says that this is the recipe in kindergartens that are bad for the children. It is a bad way to measure, so that a poor nursery can get a pat on the shoulder to be effective. I assume that the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation are talking. Will the new Minister of Knowledge take the initiative of the new Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation to look at and preferably change this kind of school and kindergarten measurements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e982	First of all, let me say that it is not that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation sits and makes this inquiry. It is the Centres for Economic Research that are responsible for it, and it is also the case, as I explained in my reply, that this has been done since 2011, so this is nothing new that the previous Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has invented. But I made this tool more accessible. Our government, both the one before Christmas, and the one after Christmas, is for openness. And the fact that we have transparency about this, rather than being hidden in a paper stack, I believe is an advantage both for municipalities, for local politicians and for citizens, who can go in and see how their municipality is compared to comparable municipalities. So it's that this isn't a fasitant answer. This is one basis of knowledge, which must also be seen in the context of others. I trust that both local politicians and administration will be able to use this in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e989	Economic research centres have been producing these reports for several years, as the Council of State points out. But he also pointed out that he himself has made changes in how the figures are used, and the reactions have probably come because having low staffing and low education in kindergartens is not effective – it's just bad kindergarten policy. When the Council of State says that he is concerned with quality in kindergarten, enough adults with the right skills are the most important quality element in kindergartens, through the standard of manning and pedagogical standards. The Labour Party believes that the government’s educational norm, where the proportion of kindergarten teachers in kindergartens should be increased from around 40 p.m. until 43 p.m., is not an offensive bet. It's too ambitious. We have spent half of our money on kindergarten teachers from 2019. Nevertheless, the Right has said that it is a long-term goal to get 50 pst. kindergarten teachers. Many in the sector wonder what this means. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State whether this is an empty promise without content, or whether the Council of State can fix the time when the government will go in for 50 pst. kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e998	Yes, it's true that I've made a change, and I've made an important change, and it's making this material more accessible. I believe that everyone should be served that this type of measurement is not hidden in a paper pile, but that they are accessible to local politicians, administration and residents, so that you can ask questions. Then I have confidence that you can find the good answers locally. This must also be seen in the context of what else you do. Of course, this study can also be improved, but the fact that things can be improved does not have to be an argument for not doing what we have actually done, more accessible. It is nice that the Workers' Party has high ambitions about even more pedagogues and even more employees in the kindergarten. The Labour Party controls many of the municipalities in the country, and that means that if this is the highest priority for the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party in the municipalities they control can make sure that there are more educators. We have now set a standard for the number of employees and for educators, and we intend to follow it up. And then we'll see if we can raise the list further. But we're going to do what we've said we're going to do first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1010	‘The government’s policy is to transfer the responsibility for ports from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency to the 11 new regions over the next two years. The size has recently addressed the roll-out of the national transport plan for the period 2018 to 2029. [[NTP]] Does the transfer of responsibility for the fishing ports of the regions mean that the regions are free to give priority to which ports are to be developed and that the priorities of the NTP are not binding on the regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1017	The government’s policy is to try to strengthen districts by empowering them and giving them priority in the field of business development. Fishing ports are important in this way. It will help to support the development of a fishing fleet and the processing of fisheries resources on land, and can help create jobs. It's all a discussion that the Oslo power shouldn't know the best, just to ensure that one in the districts can be involved in influencing the development of their region. A contribution to ensuring that the regions will have influence and can control the development of fishing ports. This means that one transfers power and authority, and one transfers the appropriations currently available nationally. I think it's good both to ensure increased local influence and to ensure that we get an even better development of the fishing industry. We've seen in the last few years that there are now more fishermen, not fewer. We see that there are large investments in the fishing industry in general — both seagoing and farmed — and we want to facilitate the processing of more fish in Norway. We have also taken many steps to strengthen the possibility of running profitable exports by repairing the road network in the districts, and by improving the conditions for fish exports from, among others. air terminals. Then one can get more for the fish by getting it fresh to the markets. The national transport plan is not a definitively adopted and fully funded measure that has tied the Storting up for 12 years. There is a plan that is intended to see different transport modes in context, which will try to address environmental issues, technology potential and the like, so that we establish our planning resources and our investment resources in the most sensible way possible. The fact that the Coast Guard, the Vegetarian, the Railway Directorate and others have a coordinated, overall approach to what we're going to build, and in what order, allows us to see more investment in the context and make sure that one doesn't dig up a city many times, but that one when one first makes investments on the road and the railway, it makes it coordinated. In this way, it will be free to make changes to a plan on what you want. This applies to everything in the plan. Today's government will seek to follow it as closely as possible, but if there is any new information about basic conditions and such, one will of course have to adapt it to the individual project. The plan in place in the case of fishing ports is coordinated in such a way that one has tried, through consultations, input, professional judgements and policy decisions, to see what is best for Norway and for regions in terms of the order of development of fishing ports. However, it is always a freedom for another political body — or the same political body — to change priorities if one considers that there is a different approach that gives better conditions for fisheries than that in the national transport plan. So yes, they can make changes if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1030	I am pleased that the Minister and I share the same view that fishing ports are important. It is only a little shame that when the state budget was set up, this government halved the funds to fishing ports – so one is now a word, something else is an action. If I understand you correctly, what you're saying is that when the regions take over, they can prioritise as they please, possibly change the whole order or projects adopted in the National Transport Plan. If the NN project is adopted, the region can freely think that no, we don't want it, we'll give priority there either. So state governance with the construction of fishing ports and what is adopted in the National Transport Plan does not really apply? Once the regions have taken over, they have full jurisdiction. That's really what's my fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1037	The President reminds us that questions will go through the President. But State Council Solvik-Olsen answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1042	I'd like to. As I tried to say in conclusion in my answer, a plan is an attempt to sketch where one should go forward so that everyone goes somewhat in pace and coordinates investments with each other. But one is not bound to have to follow it. Today’s government made changes to the previous government’s national transport plan by increasing the appropriations, prioritizing maintenance and the like. We did not follow the previous national transport plan slavishly, we did what we thought was best for the country, which meant that we got more for the money and better infrastructure than if we had followed the plan. There is always a freedom to make adjustments to the plan along the way. These freedoms will also be granted to local authorities when they are transferred the means and powers to take their decisions. That doesn't mean that I necessarily recommend that they do that. But it may happen that there is a development in which the nutritional potential of a port is greater than that one thought, or more than that one thought, and where it would be reasonable for any condition that one makes adjustments in relation to it... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1049	Does what the Minister for Transport say, that in the future roll-out of the NTP, fishing ports will be removed and will only be the responsibility of the region, and that the region plans them? And it will not be discussed in Stortinget which fishing ports are to be prioritised?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1054	That's one of the things we have to get back to when we see exactly how we're going to do this transfer, to make sure that we can maintain the pace of expanding the port, but also ensure that the necessary resources and authority are put in place in the counties so early that we don't get a gap in progress. I think it is natural when one discusses fisheries policy and the like, that one also looks at port development and upgrading. But it's not necessarily the Storting that's going to assign the counties the priority they're going to have. Then the point of giving increased power and authority to the regions disappears. However, the current national transport plan has made a political and professional assessment of what is a sensible order. I would have recommended that it be followed, but as with everything else in the national transport plan, a course may be adjusted depending on what is happening in the world around us, and what emerges from new opportunities or new challenges. In this sense, it will not be different for fishing ports than for all other projects in the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1062	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘Both populace and industry have criticised the Florø Airport offer after the commercialisation of the airport. Before the elections in autumn 2017, the Ministry of Transport promised that an agreement on the FOT routes would be ready by the end of the year. Representatives from the government parties made the impression that Flora Airport could get FOT routes from summer 2018. Why is this distribution delayed, and when will it be finished and public?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1071	I am concerned that we are going to have the best possible flight offer in the whole country, and through the FOT route system, we are helping to finance from the state's hands that there is a minimum of air services to some airports where one expects that commercial forces would not be delivered on their own. Then there's always an assessment of when a route is commercial or not, and here we get good input from different research bodies when you're going to start new bidding rounds, to make sure that we don't destroy a market that works, but that we're doing transport services where it actually needs to. We have launched a new investigation in connection with a new offer for regional scheduled flights in South Norway from 1 April 2020. That report was scheduled to be ready in mid-January 2018, but for various reasons it has been delayed. It is in this context that we pointed out that it is natural that one also reassesses whether Florø should be a commercial airport, or whether the routes that are currently commercial should return to the FOT route system. As I said, this report is delayed, but will be ready in February, after what we are told, and Florø is then one of those issues in the investigation. When that investigation is ready, it will be made public and likely to be the subject of public debate and consultation, which will give us an idea of whether there is a different point of view from that of those who have conducted the investigation. We outlined a possible rapid process from the autumn of 2017, as pointed out here, to look at the possibility of re-establishing FOT routes around the summer of 2018, but at the same time we informed them that the Ministry of Transport would not take a final position on this until this investigation was completed, and it is now a little delayed. Let me just remind you in the debate that goes on the flight routes to and from Florø, that someone thinks that if you just get into a FOT route, you get a lot more departures. If you look at the locations that are FOT slots today, there's no more departures than what you already have on Florø, so making a change into the FOT route system doesn't necessarily mean more departures, but it could mean that one in the future is shutting down competition that could give more departures. In that case, it would be unfortunate. That is why I am concerned that we should see the situation on Florø in concrete terms. I've been to the airport, I've been to the region several times. What's one of the main challenges for Florø now is the decline that has occurred in the oil sector, which has led to a significant reduction in the number of offshore helicopters that have shut down at the airport. We've seen bright spots in the last few months, where some months have been rising compared to the previous year, but overall there has been a decline in Florø. Then I understand why there's a discussion about this, hoping and believing that a FOT route will save it. But as I said, compared to the FOT route system elsewhere, we would probably end up with a flight offer that was pretty similar to the commercial offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1080	Yes, I am aware that tomorrow the Council of State will meet with elected representatives and representatives from Florø on this matter. The provision of air routes is important for Florø and the coast of the whole of Sogn and Fjordane, and I now hear that the Council of State is in fact arguing against the views that come from local people, who have wanted the airport to reenter the FOT route system, and there were expectations from the Ministry of Transport that it could be possible from summer 2018. Is it correctly understood that the delays that have now occurred make it impractical to put in place new routes for the summer of 2018, and should I understand the Council of State so that at the meeting that comes, he will argue against the positions he has in the matter locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1089	I visited the airport last spring, and I got the exact same arguments that the representative here gives the impression that I'm going to hear one more time, and in that case there's nothing new. In the wishes that then came, had a belief that if a just gets the FOT route, a few more departures than you have today, but then I point out that such FOT route system is set up, will not be the case. If you want a FOT route, you also have to be aware of the possibilities and disadvantages that lie in it. That means, once again, that if the goal is to get more departures from Florø, it's better to use its energy towards On Island and show that there's an increased transport potential that allows them to make more money than to go to the politicians and say that we should have a bid on this route, which would end up with the same number of departures as today. So it's about using its energy into the right place, and it's now on the other side. We have seen that it has produced results in other parts of the country when they have worked against the airlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1096	I'm a little bit surprised at the answer. When this is a matter, it's because those who use the airport locally, the business community and the people who live in the municipality of Florø perceive that after the commercialization, the airport's supply was first more expensive, but also worse, with fewer departures, and there's also a high degree of cancellation. So my wish is that the Council of State does not meet with the local representatives who are coming, with conclusions he has drawn in advance, which he expresses today, but that he can be more humble and listen to the points of view that come out, in accordance with what was said in the previous answer that one had very much faith in the local priorities and assessments of important political issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1103	We have assessed whether to transfer the responsibility and the possibilities for purchasing air routes to the states, so that they can make those priorities. To become a FOT route is not free, and I have not seen that the Center Party has also prioritised money for what the Center Party here gives the impression of would become a reality if they had run themselves. What I'm pointing out is not necessarily conclusions, but that's the argument that becoming a FOT route doesn't give you a better offer than what you have today. The fact that there were several departures before was not because the requirements were different, but because Backøe then had several flight departures on top of what was the FOT route requirement. But we've seen that also elsewhere, where one has had a significant decline in offshore traffic, a removed part of the extra take-offs that Backøe had. It's taking over the facts, so when we discuss what's best for an airport, one relates to reality and doesn't think that if it just becomes a FOT route, one gets a completely different offer, because that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1115	‘Bane NOR has terminated the contract with Follobane contractor Condotte. Before the last billion contract with the Italian company was concluded, the then Railway Agency received strong signals in an evaluation report that the debt in the company was sky-high and that liquidity was weak. How could the State contract with Italian Condotte after the warning lights were lit and what measures have been taken to ensure that something similar should not happen again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1122	We have a lot of big infrastructure projects around the country. The Follobane project is one of the most desperate, but we've just started the Rogfast project, and we have Ryfast under construction. There are over 60 major road projects running in this country. For me, it is important to ensure that we enter into contracts that are as best possible, not only on price initially, but also that they are so good for the contractors that they implement them in a good way. It is expensive for the country whose contracts must be broken along the way. It has underpinned the whole way in which we have approximated social policy. Therefore, it is sad to see that on the Bane NOR's Follobane project one has got the situation that Condotte could not deliver the work in line with what they were required to do. The problem here is not, however, Condotte and Follobanen. It is a challenge that the company has to face because they have not been paid for some tasks they have had in Italy and Algeria. Because the oil price has fallen, some of the contracts they have had in other countries have not been paid in time, simply because those who had to pay it had no income anymore. Now that they have a better situation, with increased oil prices, the debtors have given priority to paying debts where projects are in progress, and since Condotte has completed their projects in Algeria, they have been on the waiting list longer. It has created liquidity problems. I also owe it to you to point out that Bane NOR tells us that Condotte has done good work on what they have contracted in Norway. However, it does not help if the company comes into a liquidity dispute that prevents them from paying their subcontractors, and the work stops. That is why we have been very concerned that we should solve the problem that now came, so that we do not get hurt here in Norway as a result of a major contractor having problems elsewhere. With regard to the conclusion of the contract, I have spent a lot of time understanding this, because this is something our railway company professionals did. The KPMG report has not been the basis for the quality assurance of the contractors. There has been something called TransQ. That's the system used for deliveries. Most companies in the Nordic infrastructure market use this. That's what led to the qualification. There was nothing in it that gave red light, in the sense that one could not go on. In some areas, the TransQ report showed that Condotte was better than competitors; in others, they were worse than competitors. This was due to the conclusion of the contract. There has also been a KPMG report, which the Railway Agency has had to look at the project in total, and to see if it was something they had to follow up in particular. It's true that at some points in it, there was a bad rating of... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1135	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1140	I will agree with the Minister of Transport that this is reasonably complicated, and I would like to thank him for spending time getting into a difficult area. The important thing now is that we learn for the future, both the department, the Bane NOR and other underlying agencies, so that something similar doesn't happen again. I didn't fully understand everything the Minister for Transport said, so my question is: does it not bring about correctness, what has been claimed out there, that there was a report – ordered by the Railway Agency – before the Oslo S contract with the condotte on Folloban was signed, and that in that report it was established that the debt in the company was very high, and that the liquidity was poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1147	I'm going to try to recapture the thread where I left off – I'm sorry I left out too late. The qualification of suppliers was carried out through the qualification scheme called TransQ. That was the reason. Condotte was qualified at a good margin to submit offers in accordance with the qualification requirements set there. This was also the requirement for liquidity. So the decision points they had, based on what has been the standard way of implementing it, showed that there was green light on this. The KPMG report should not be confused with the economic qualification of the operators involved in the procurement process. An investigation was carried out to provide a broad and overall assessment of all providers – including Condotte – and their financial position, in order to monitor the status of suppliers. It was more of a report that the Railway Agency could use to find out if it was something they had to pay particular attention to when they were going to follow the project in operation. There were some points that made them more aware of this, but that would not be enough to disqualify for further contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1156	We have to look forward, and the job for everyone now is to make sure that we try to avoid anything similar happening again. Unfortunately, we now have poor experience of several foreign entrepreneurs in large Norwegian construction projects. Let me just make it clear that I am not responsible for that on the current Minister of Transport alone. But what the Minister of Transport can do about is how we stand in the future, and what we're doing with big construction projects in the future, because it's quite right, as the Minister of Transport says, there's a lot of consensus in this room that we're going to spend a lot of money on transportation projects in the years to come. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Is the government still actively working to get foreign entrepreneurs to build new transport projects in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1163	Let me just first say that Bane NOR has eaten and expanded its claims for the financial prequalification of new contracts. So they've also learned from this, just to avoid it happening again. That there may be liquidity challenges for any company — Norwegian or foreign — as a result of others not paying their contracts may occur. So pre-qualifying and reviewing the accounts is no guarantee that nothing occurs during the construction period – two, five or ten years after the contract has been concluded. With regard to the attitude of foreign entrepreneurs: I, as Minister of Transport, have not done what my predecessors did: I have travelled abroad to pick up foreign entrepreneurs, as Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad once did. We have not written in the National Transport Plan that we want to facilitate foreign entrepreneurs, as stated in the National Transport Plan of the Red-Green Government. We have been concerned that there will be healthy competition, but we have also been concerned that we will develop Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs here, and that will be the basis for my work further. It's e.g. largely only Norwegian contractors who now win road contracts, as opposed to before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1175	The question relates to the same issue: «Bane NOR announced on 30 January that they would terminate the contract with Total Entrepreneur Condotte due to financial problems. Condotte has had two of the total contracts of the Follobane project. Can the Council of State ensure that this does not delay the progress of the expansion of Folloban?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1184	I'm not going to repeat everything I said in the previous answer, but just stress that this is a big project. It is important for us that one has progress, both because it is an important part of the total transport system that we are now building against Akershus and Østfold, because it is important to get improvements to the route offer as soon as possible, and because it is insanely much money. Delays here will impose extra costs on us in the $100 million class, simply because having an organization of that size will cost us a lot, and if we spend one more year, it's unnecessary expenditure. That's also why Bane NOR went in so quickly and cancelled the agreements they had with Condotte, because when Condotte could not guarantee that the progress was maintained, and could not guarantee that the subcontractors did their job, we saw that the risk on our hand would increase for every week that went. It could cost us a lot if one ended up doing something in 2022 instead of 2021, which is the plan. That's why someone did what's really quite drastic – canceling such a big deal with an actor who's initially done a good job on our project. But it doesn't help if you've done a good job on our project until now, if you can't guarantee it. Once one from Bane NOR has done this, it is to minimise the risk of both cost increase and delays. I can't guarantee today that there won't be any new cuttings in the sea, but Bane NOR tells us that they believe that the situation is such that things have started so quickly again that one could probably have the progress that was at stake, and minimize – hopefully zero out – any risks of cost exceedances. It's still too early to be able to give it the answer with two lines below, but the grips that have been done have been done precisely for the purpose of keeping progress, keeping costs down and controlling the project. That means that Bane NOR is in a somewhat unusual situation by now taking over the role that entrepreneurs have had in the past, but for the time being I have full confidence in the decisions they have made. After the meetings I've had with Bane NOR, I have great confidence in their project managers and organizers. They have a very good insight into both their own project – naturally – but also the problems that Condotte had. That suggests they're close to the ball.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1195	It was early in the summer last year that there was a payment problem. Sub-contractors would not deliver concrete, and it was warned that one could get delays. So it went over six months before it was taken by Bane NOR to the contractor. Does Bane NOR have sufficient competence when contracts are concluded, and does it have sufficient competence as a builder when it can go out on time, and when it is first taken hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1200	In general, I think it's good competence. It's always a little hard to predict the future. When one received the warning signal this summer, it made Bane NOR more aware of this, and from the information I received along the way, I have no doubt that they have been on the ball and understood what is happening. At the same time, it is difficult for this reason to conclude that the outcome has been given to the condottes. When it's another country's debtors who owe condottes money, we don't know if it necessarily means that that debt won't be paid, or if it will be paid. If we were always to get ahead of ourselves that everything would go bad, one could of course have taken for granted this summer that it was just starting the process right away. Legally, then, the risk would have been far greater, I would think, because one could not prove that this would only have a negative outcome. At that time, the likelihood of a major claim for damages would have been there – it is also downside to making hasty decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1205	I thank you for your answer. There is also a concern about the sub-contractors who are affected by this case. There are some sub-contractors who are extremely critical of being a sub-contractor in total contractor prices. I expect the Council of State to be aware of the situation in the construction sector. Has the Council made an assessment of what kind of action can be taken to ensure that the subcontractors have a stronger position in the portfolio of the total contractor?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1212	For me, it is important to contribute to the construction of Norway, and to build Norwegian business and Norwegian competence. It is important that we try to get Norwegian labour force to be qualified and to win in the competitions. When we look at the statistics for the last few years, we see that in 2015 and 2017, Norwegian entrepreneurs have largely won all the road contracts. We're talking about 95-97 pst. of all contract values. In 2016 it was slightly lower for the Norwegian contractors, but compared with, for example, the Norwegian contractors. 2012, when foreigners won almost half, there has been a significant improvement. It is important that we have contracts that allow us to both get a lot of money back – taxpayers’ money – and be able to see the supplier market that is, to play well with both the large and many of the small and medium sized ones. For this reason, the Vegvesenet has said that they want more total enterprise prices for medium-sized projects, which make it possible, for example, to increase the number of enterprises. today's MEF contractors, the contractors of the Feds, will be able to be their own managers and not be subcontractors. We have also set limits on how many levels of subcontractors you can have. It repeats that one strengthens the subcontractor's role.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1224	‘The urban clinic may not be awarded in the new round of tenders in Health South-East. It could have consequences for Lolandsheimen in the municipality of Vennesla and for about 70 employees there. These are district work places of great importance for employees and communities. Is this to be regarded as an activity transfer, what impact does it have on employees, what leadership has the Council of State given as to how personnel should be managed upon termination of contracts, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that jobs remain in the district?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1231	First, the initial premise on the question is wrong. The City Centre and the Blue Cross have been awarded the most important part of the new round of tenders in Health South-East. On 1 April 2016, the Blue Cross chose to terminate the long-term framework agreement they had with Health South-East on the treatment offer at the Borgestadklinikken. This occurred after they themselves had made an assessment of the economic sustainability of the business. After this, Health South-East has had to make a public acquisition to replace the service offer when the contract expires. The purchase of healthcare is subject to public procurement legislation, and Health South-East does not have the opportunity to make a direct acquisition from the City Centre. The City Council clinic has offered its offer in competition with eleven others, and they have described the services they wish to offer, with the corresponding prices. The clinic has been awarded extensive contracts, both volume and economic, but the offer they made for location in Loland and Brerens did not reach the competition. Apart from the Borgestadklinik, the Tyrolean Foundation in Skien and Arendal, Skkelfoss Psychiatric Centres in Hobøl and the Manifesto Centre have been awarded agreements. All of these are good private, ideal suppliers. It is Health South-East that is responsible for this acquisition and related assessments, both the concrete acquisition and the overall offer in the region. I have not understood that some of the providers have disputed the process after the allocation is legal. It is, of course, demanding for an enterprise such as the Borgestadklinik to restructure its offer in line with the new service purchase agreement. However, health south-east has expressed that they will extend for a long time. Among other things, they will contribute funds and enter into an agreement with the Borgestadklinik in order to ensure that patients and employees at Lolandsheimen and Brerens are cared for. As regards the question of transfer of activities, Health South-East has indicated that they have not requested this in the tender documents. One important reason for this is that such leadership could result in a significant restriction on the competitive aspects of acquisition. In some cases, however, this may be required in the award of contracts and one must consider whether the principle of business transfer can be applied to the specific tenders concluded. I would like to remind you that this acquisition is primarily about the offer to addicts in the region, and that these now receive an offer by having an agreement with several private operators. It is also worth noting that health south-east has provided a larger financial framework in this offer than before, and that priority has also been given to patients with extensive additional problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1250	I record that the Council of State is concerned about describing the process and putting responsibility on the company, but it is the Minister of Health who has the overall responsibility for the fact that 65 employees at Lolandsheimen are at risk of losing their jobs. The Labour Party was a driving force for the role of non-profit actors in the acquisition law. Does the State Council consider that the tendering process has focused on the Storting's clear expectations of the use of ideals in tendering procedures, and what has the State Council done to ensure that the Storing's intentions are followed up so that ideal jobs in Loland could be continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1257	All three of them that have been agreed on are ideal, so I do not believe that this question is relevant in that context. Although this offer went out at a time when the reassessments of the rules for public purchases had not been completed, and I had not given the assignment that I have now given, for 2018, which is very clear on the possibility of reservation for bids from ideals, the result of this tendering process is nevertheless that all the operators that have been agreed are ideal, and therefore that issue is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1264	The consequence is at least that there will be a fragmented professional environment, and that jobs will disappear from the districts – workplaces that are badly affected. The Minister of Health is also responsible for the fact that some of the 37 treatment sites in Loland, mainly long-term sites, on which the Council of State was involved, are at risk of being removed from Agder. Does the Minister of Health think that it is in line with good professional and political judgements to allow people with severe drug dependence to move further away from their locality, from children, relations, networks and the place to which they are to be rehabilitated, in order to receive treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1271	In multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, it is quite common for patients to seek treatment in institutions located elsewhere than where they live. Therefore, the use of free treatment choices in that scheme is considerable. The Tyrolean Foundation, which is one of the three that have been offered, has a location both in Skien and in Arendal, so there will also be locations in Agder after the new offer. With regard to the quality of the offer, it is important that all those participating in the tenders pay attention. The additional emphasis in this tender is among other things. to strengthen the supply of patients with related drug and mental health challenges and to young people who have previously had too poor services in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1284	‘Since the opening in 2015, the number of Corridor Asians in the Eastfold Hospital, Kalnes, has doubled from year to year. In 2016 there were 1,610 Corridor Asians in the hospital, and in 2017 there were 3,860 patients. How does this relate to the zero vision of the Council of State for Corridor Asians, and how will he, as Council of State, address this issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1291	Being sick and lying on the corridor is an unworthy situation for patients. There is also an obstacle to good quality treatment and poor health, the environment and safety of hospital staff. Fortunately, there has been a gradual decrease in the proportion of Corridor Asians in recent years. The proportion of national corridors is 1 pst, i.e. a slight decrease from the same period of the previous year. In order to maintain this proper development, I have confirmed to the health regions that we are not going to have corridor Asians in Norwegian hospitals. But there are still major differences between hospitals. Some have relatively many corridor Asiates; others have none. The important results for individual hospitals are public, so that hospitals can use this to improve quality, compare with and not least learn from each other. The figures from healthnorge.no show that the Hospital Østfold Kalnes is one of the hospitals with the highest proportion of Corridor Asians. Health South-East has recently received a report from the Hospital Eastfold on challenges and measures to improve the situation of Corridor Asians both in the short and long term. In the short term, it is about dealing with the situation related to the outbreak of influenza. This is done, among other things: by increasing the manning at the acute reception, at the diurnal range and at the laboratory analysing influenza samples. In the longer term, it is about preventing hospitalisation. A new project will strengthen the follow-up of patients with chronic diseases outside the hospital. This happens, among other things: by improving interaction with decision-makers and primary health services. The aim of the project is to extend the good periods for chroniclers and to prevent insertion through an early intervention. The hospital is also dedicated to releasing capacity. Among other things, they see different ways of reducing bedtime, and they also cooperate closely with municipalities on the rapid release of pre-treated patients. I assume that the Hospital Østfold is taking action to ensure that the activity is planned in line with the needs of the patients. I perceive that the hospital is working actively to deal with the challenges associated with Corridor Asians, based on the statement I received now in January. It is important that the hospital prioritise this work, and of course I follow up this situation in the management dialogue that I have with Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1300	It is particularly sad that the number of Corridor Asians in Kalnes is rising when it is against the trend in the nation, because there is a new hospital. It's not built for Corridor Asians. The corridors are extra narrow. The number of patients at the Hospital Østfold has increased by 10 pst. in the last two years. At the same time, patients have not been expelled from the emergency department as foreseen. In addition, from 1 May this year, all patients will be received from Vestby. Would it not have been a good idea for the Council of State to put a foot in the ground and say that we are now evaluating the capacity of Kalnes before receiving new patients from West Town?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1305	It is clear, as the representative also points out, that the new hospital in Kalnes has had challenges with its own capacity. Therefore, the transfer from Westby is already deferred. Experience suggests that when using new hospital buildings, which involve many new ways of working, not least a lot of new technologies, such as those at the Hospital Østfold, it takes time to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the new working methods. At the same time, there are challenges that we need to learn from, for example. as regards the size of the emergency receiver. I perceive that Health South-East and the management of the hospital are actively working on this, and assesses the hospital until they have no opportunity to receive patients from Vestby, I believe that they are the ones who are the best at first to make that kind of assessments. Of course, I will always be responsive if I get that kind of feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1312	The municipalities of Eastfold take a great responsibility for the ready-to-print patients, and they are also bragging about that. At the same time, I feel that the board of directors of the Hospital Østfold and the hospital are very active and gripping themselves. But it can't be the case in a business model that you have to discharge all political responsibility. The owner must also be active and follow the situation closely. I again ask the Council of State: had it not been possible to evaluate the capacity and needs of Kalnes before accepting new patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1317	I fully agree that, as Minister of Health, I should be active and contribute to good solutions. I believe that my activity and willingness to intervene and make decisions in the hospitals, measured up against my predecessors, will stand very well in an evaluation, and I go deep into the issues. But I am also of the very clear opinion that those who have the best opportunity to assess the specific situation are those who actually work in hospitals, and the management there. Have the assessments that make them want me to remake decisions that needed to be taken, for example. in the business meeting, my door is always open, and I am always open to make new assessments if those affected by decisions believe that one needs e.g. more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1325	‘The Government Declaration states that the government will establish several treatment sites and improve the backlog of alcohol abusers. But the Borgestadklinikken, Division Brerens, has recently lost its offer to Health South-East for the further operation of 25 treatment and detoxification sites for alcohol users. Will the Council of State contribute to the extension of the agreement by the City Council of Brerens, to the postponement of the decision and to the determination of how growth in treatment can take place, so that the government declaration is followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1332	I would like to remind you that this acquisition is primarily about the offer to addicts in the region, and that these now receive a good offer from several private offers that have been agreed upon. It is also worth noting that Health South-East has provided a larger financial framework for this offer than before. There are now four providers offering the requested services, namely the Tyril Foundation in Skien and Arendal, the Manifesto Centre in Smoke and Skkelfoss Psychiatric Centre in Hobøl, as well as the Borgestad Clinic in Telemark. All of these are good and ideal suppliers. Health South-East has informed that they have carried out a needs analysis as a basis for competition. The analysis is divided into five sub-performances, all of which require the integration of detoxification, investigation and treatment into the individual performance. This means that capacity will now be better used. The financial framework also opens up to enhance the competence of supply. Health South-East is of the opinion that the total offer is better adapted to the professional requirements and that the capacity for detoxification and treatment is maintained in line with the management requirements given, according to Health South-East. The Government will ensure good cooperation with actors contributing to innovation, diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the service provision. Health cows need to continue to be reduced, provision needs to be improved through new ways of working, and users need to be guaranteed freedom of choice. That is also evident from our political platform. This concrete acquisition affects several of these objectives. We get more ideal actors, that is the basis for both innovation and greater diversity, and not least greater freedom of choice for users. The financial framework also helps to strengthen the competence and ability of the ideal actors to provide good services in the offer. The government is committed to strengthening the provision of services to the most vulnerable, and we are therefore continuing the golden rule in the field of drugs and mental health. We will also work to establish several detoxification sites, both before and after treatment, and we will establish several teams both in the specialist health service and in which the local health service participates. We are also committed to establishing more treatment sites and better after-care for alcohol users. However, it is important to link this with the general strengthening of the offer. The supply of alcohol users may not necessarily be delimited from other addiction medicines. What is important is that this type of abuse should also be able to help determine where to receive their health care. This means that the offer that will now be made in this region, where there is an offer of addiction medicine, will of course also be an offer to alcohol addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1347	While the new government put on Jeleua and formulated the government platform, where one was clear that one should increase the number of treatment sites and get better after protection for alcohol users, the opposite happens in the services. I think the answer from the Council of State is alarming – how a cut in total daily treatment in the services can be presented as opposed. And when you talk about ideals, it's unlikely to hear that when a loses offer and has to put down an entire department, it's made as if the government is busy with the ideals. I want to ask you again. I take seriously what is on the government platform about an increase in the number of treatment sites and better protection for alcohol abusers. Why would you allow the Drammen department to be shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1354	I have never heard the representative Toppe say that ideal actors should not have to compete in public acquisitions to make their offers. In that case, it's quite eye-catching. What is the situation is that we have a common desire to be able to keep some tenders reserved for ideals. That was not the case with this tender, because at the time the tender was tendered, that was not the understanding of the law on public acquisitions. But it has now been followed up in the current mission document. In this tender, all those who have won are ideal actors. So if the Center Party now believes that all the ideals that have contracts with the public should get current contracts and never participate in competitions, even against other ideals, then it is a policy that would be contrary to the law on public acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1361	This is a distortion of facts in the matter. The fact is that Health South-East has published an offer in a competition between ideals, which we also support, but where the premise is that they reduce the number of daily places from 129 to 110. In addition, they have reserved the treatment sites for purposes other than alcohol dependence. for the treatment of ROP sufferers, i.e. those with both drug and psychiatric disorders, and for easier withdrawal plaques — i.e. patients other than alcohol addicts. Therefore, this offer comes out crooked, despite the fact that it is a non-profit competition. I believe the Minister of Health knows that, and he should be honest with me here in Stortinget. So my question remains: when one sees that the supply of alcohol addicts is weakened in this offer, what will the government council do to fulfill its own government platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1368	I take seriously what the representative says when she asks me a question, and the representative had a line of argument that this offer weakened ideals because an offer that was ideal was not renewed. That's the premise I answered, because that kind of claim can't be contradicted. In the case of people with alcohol dependence, they will receive an offer on exactly the same conditions as one who is dependent on an illicit drug, through the multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. However, it is absolutely right that in the offer that is now out there, attention is also given to an offer to people who have a combination of serious drug dependence and serious mental health challenges. It is simply because it is one of the areas where a good needs analysis has shown that there have been shortages in this region, and there is a group that really needs more help.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1378	Blue Cross The City Council Clinic in Drammen has missed the offer with Health South-East RHF. The target group of the Blue Cross Clinic is those with alcohol and/or drug dependence, as well as those dependent on gambling and relatives, mainly older people. According to Health South-East, these people are to receive help elsewhere in the West Viken HF. Can the Council of States explain in detail the content of this alternative offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1383	It is in health regions’ care-responsiveness to provide the population with the needs of specialist health services, in this case healthcare in multi-disciplinary specialised treatment. Health South-East has informed me that the tendering process they have now conducted is based on an analysis of the overall treatment needs of patients with drug or addiction problems in the health region. They state that the offer for relatives is a well-established outpatient offer throughout the region and that such offer is also emphasised in the tender. The basic document for all five sub-performances offered by Health South-East indicated that relatives should be involved in the patient’s treatment. Patients shall be cared for, including children and the patient’s sibling, and patient and related training and information shall be provided. Health South-East also states that those in need of health care in the specialist healthcare system because of their situation in life could also be referred to mental health protection or multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. Those with their own drug problems may be referred to interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment and have an independent patient status in such a programme. Health South-East further indicates that it is its own drug outpatient clinics in the West Viken that are organized as part of the district psychiatric centers. Persons in Buskerud who need treatment as a relative to a person with a drug problem may also be referred to the local DPS in the West Viken. Health South-East does not recommend that people with gambling problems be admitted to daily treatment if they are not at the same time dependent on the use of drugs. The health region further indicates that there are separate, well-established treatment methods for gambling addicts available across the country, linked to the DPS or drug outpatient clinics. Persons in Buskerud seeking treatment in the specialist health service for problems related to gambling addiction may be referred to the local DPS in the West Viken for assessment. It may be relevant to treatment at the drug outpatient clinic at this DPS, but it may also be relevant to receive treatment at other outpatient clinics in this part of the region. Some outpatient clinics and some private psychologists in Health South-East have specialised in gambling addicts and are listed on their own resource lists, including: The drug outpatient clinic at Drammen DPS is on this list.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1400	The starting point is that there are long waiting lists. So there's too little capacity today to meet the need. And when the Council of State refers to needs analysis, it is probably a reasonable experience that the need to assist alcoholics is not a need that goes down; there is a need that needs to be met to a greater extent than today. The result of what has happened here is that there has been both a decrease in the number of daily places and a decrease in outpatient capacity. For example, the Council of State now refers to its own drug outpatient clinics. What has been presented to me is that outpatient capacity is reduced by 3,500 – from 8600 to about 5000. Is it to cover the offer in a new way – within the West Viken?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1407	First to the general drug treatment situation: this is one of the areas where we have had a severe reduction in waiting time, and the number of people receiving help is increasing. It's very joyful, because it's part of the government's policy. This means that addicts are the patient group with the shortest waiting time in healthcare today, and that is a very nice and correct development. I am very concerned that we also look at the real content of the offer given. In the past, for example, someone has count the number of detoxification sites and the number of daily places. The government policy is that there should be no delay between detoxification and treatment. This is because it is our experience that many addicts first come to a detoxification offer, then they are sent home again, and then they have to enter a treatment offer afterwards. Drug dependence has often returned and a new opportunity has been destroyed. This must therefore be linked, and it is also part of the tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1414	What was my question was how to cover up the offer that has fallen away within the West Gulf, and I have received a bad answer to that. The Parties agree that investigation and treatment should be followed. When one is motivated for investigation and treatment, a few offers should be made as soon as possible. Today there is a waiting time of 33 days. It's over one month, and it's a big weakness. In that situation, we need to increase capacity, not reduce it. So there have been fewer places for medical detoxification, which is also confirmed by the trade director Jan Frick in Health South-East. So that's a fact. There are fewer short-term places. There is at all a situation where the offer becomes weaker. Then is my last question: is it in line with the government statement that one suggests that there should be fewer places when the need is so great that there is still more than one month waiting time for both investigation and detoxification?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1425	The waiting time has gone down and will continue to go down, and it is very happy. So it's also like -- I'll try again -- that earlier it was like if a number of places, a number would have counted the number of detoxification places and the number of daily places. Then, of course, one had come up in a higher sum than what one does now when detoxification is part of the daily treatment, which I experience – and it is a pleasure – that the representative agrees. Then necessarily what was previously counted as two places, now counted as one place. This provides a better offer to the patient because the patient is not allowed to stay. Firstly, the patient first misses waiting for detoxification, so in the next round to wait for treatment, and the patient will also not get a break between detoxification and treatment. The new drug treatment package sequences, to be introduced from the autumn onwards, provide for a direct switch from detoxification to treatment, and this offer is also based on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1435	«United Kingdom is an important ally and trading partner for us, and is the country to which we have exported most in recent years. In its time, the British helped to establish EFTA together with, among others, Norway. There is now a debate on the accession of the United Kingdom to EFTA and, where appropriate, to the EEA for a transitional period. What dialogue does the government have with the British authorities in this regard, and how does it come to such a conclusion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1442	As I explained in the European Committee of the United Kingdom this morning, our goal is that future relations with the United Kingdom should be as close and comprehensive as possible after Brexit. At the same time, it is in Norway's interest to observe the EEA Agreement and the other agreements Norway has with the EU. The UK authorities have repeatedly stated that they consider both EFTA and EEA membership to be irrelevant to the United Kingdom. Brexit Minister David Davis has said to the British House of Commons that the British Government does not consider a solution involving EFTA and the EEA. Prime Minister May and Foreign Minister Johnson have expressed themselves in a similar way several times. As regards any transitional arrangements, from January onwards, the EU negotiating directives provide for the UK to continue to be subject to the obligations of all EU agreements for a transitional period. This also applies to agreements with other countries. If these countries agree, the United Kingdom may also benefit from the rights deriving from these agreements. For Norway, the government considers this to be a sensible approach. The British will then follow the provisions of the EEA Agreement for a transitional period, but it is not a matter of the entry of the British into the EEA on the EFTA side. What kind of solutions are needed for us to have such a transitional arrangement is now the subject of discussions in the EU. As regards future conditions, the UK has the objective of negotiating a new contractual relationship with the EU, which should be quite specific to the United Kingdom. We're dealing with it and, of course, we don't see any value in starting to speculate on any other questions. But if the British were to change this approach, of course, we have to look closely at that issue. Norwegian interests, those relating to goods and services and fish and agriculture, will be included in that assessment. The British have not yet presented a clear vision for the future relationship with the EU and the internal market, which means that the relationship with Norway is also very important. It makes it somewhat more challenging for us and others to plan. We have good contacts, both in the United Kingdom and in the EU, which we actively use to get as close to the processes as possible, as we are not part of the outsourcing negotiations. We do it to ensure Norwegian interests. We are also in close dialogue with the British side on what we need to put in place a contract agency to ensure that the relationship between our two countries can remain as close as possible in the future as possible. In talks with Prime Minister Solberg, Prime Minister May has confirmed that she wants to offer the same conditions to Norwegian citizens who have acquired rights in the United Kingdom, as offered to citizens from EU countries. The Government's cross-ministerial brexit task force coordinates the dialogue with the United Kingdom. This is done in close cooperation with both Iceland, Liechtenstein and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1455	Firstly, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on having now also been responsible for European policy. Let us hope that there can be a shift towards a greater emphasis on Norwegian interests instead of EU interests in Norway. What I don't get a good answer to is what is Norway's position. For example, in the United Kingdom, the approach of Norway and the EFTA countries will be important. EFTA membership by the United Kingdom. This is a debate that has been going on in the United Kingdom for a long time. The Trade Committee in the House of Commons has previously recommended that the government look at EFTA membership. Today there is a debate in Parliament with Stephen Hammond, who has taken the initiative to promote EFTA. Its starting point is that EFTA was a platform for the British when they entered the EU and should also be a platform when they leave the EU. Just in view of the important position EFTA has for trade cooperation for Norway internationally – should it not be in Norway’s interest to examine the possibilities for the UK to return to EFTA?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1464	As I said, there is nothing from the official British team that suggests that they want to go back into EFTA. But of course, we keep all the possibilities open and evaluate the different sides of it. In this context, it will of course be unwise for Norway to begin to speculate on behalf of the United Kingdom on what they would like. However, let me say that if there were to be a current issue for the United Kingdom, we must remember that this would mean that EFTA would have a partner that is significantly larger than the others, and that has interests, perhaps especially in the agricultural sector, that are quite different from our interests. This would change the strength ratio a lot, and where we have defensive interests and the British have offensive interests in the field of agriculture, it could pose significant challenges for Norway. That is one of the reasons why, should it become applicable, it must be subject to a thorough assessment both in Norway and in other EFTA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1471	I thank you again for the answer. I think it's a bit remarkable that a farmer is producing agriculture here. What are we subject to today? Today we are subject to the EEA Agreement, which provides for the gradual liberalisation of trade in agricultural products and processed agricultural products, in which the UK is involved. The Council of State is also a spokesperson for EU membership, which would mean that we had become part of the EU's common agricultural policy. So one problem then is that the UK might be involved in a cooperation where a much greater degree of concern is that the different countries have different interests to care for in agriculture and, for example, negotiate separately in bilateral negotiations. My question is again: when EFTA is the platform that Norway is using when we negotiate with countries internationally today – we have approx. 40 agreements with countries and regions internationally through EFTA, we have hardly enough bilateral trade agreements – why is there no more interest in exploring the possibilities for the UK to join an enhanced EFTA in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1486	I think it was rather funny that it is the Central Party that is now going in the rush to make the British a member of EFTA, with what it would say, among other things. for Norwegian defensive agricultural interests. Having said that, we know that EFTA and UK membership of EFTA will not be sufficient to meet the needs of Norwegian industry for tight economic integration. We also know that it would not continue the ongoing harmonisation of legislation and the mutual recognition of goods and services which characterise the internal market in which the British are now leaving. This means that there are many aspects of this that need to be assessed and discussed in the light of what is in Norwegian interest. We both have bilateral trade agreements, and we have agreements through EFTA. In this context, it is important for Norway to assess how we can best continue to have a close and good relationship with one of our most important and important trading partners and bilateral relations, while safeguarding Norwegian interests and protecting the EEA Agreement and our market access to a domestic market of 500 million. human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1498	‘Section 14 of the Criminal Enforcement Act states that ‘Criminal care may transfer prisoners to another prison if e) structural or manning conditions or lack of space so require’. Does the Council of State consider that these legal criteria, which will apply to the rental of detention centres in the Netherlands, are met today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1505	Many of those zones in Norwayrhaven prison in the Netherlands have been transferred there on a voluntary basis. The criminal justice system assesses on a case-by-case basis whether a transfer to Norwayrhaven prison is fulfilled. Renting of Norwayrhaven prisons in the Netherlands with 242 prisons has been an important and appropriate temporary measure to resolve the problem of overcrowding in police detention due to lack of prison places. Recently, Norwegian prison occupations have been reduced. However, although the coating has been reduced, there is still a need for additional high-level prison sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1512	As of 17 December – as I know – there were 491 vacancies in Norwegian prisons, 263 of which were high-security sites. I have little reason to think that today there is a big change in these numbers. In this case, what does the Council of State think is the justification used in the decision on forced transmission of prisoners for residence in the Netherlands, when we see that the capacity of prisons in Norway is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1519	It's not the Council of State that makes assessments of where individuals are going to zone, I leave it to the right authorities. However, a thorough assessment is made of each individual inmate before a decision on transfer to Norwayrhaven is taken. Elements such as the health situation, the right to training and the family situation are assessed. Prisoners who are required to have leave are not transferred to Norwayrhaven prison or transferred back to a prison in Norway when they are granted leave. I can add that a climate study has been conducted in prison in the Netherlands, which shows a very high level of satisfaction. So the prisoners too are today very satisfied with this offer. What happens next will depend on the need for future prisons. That's something that we'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1526	The question was essentially whether Section 14 of the Penal Code, i.e. this with structural, manning or local conditions, makes it necessary to transfer. I would assume that this is the basis for the enforcement decisions. The fact that the Council of State cannot answer for what is used in the decisions is due to her own account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1531	I am confident that those who make these assessments will make them on a good basis, and that they will use the places where they think they are right for the individual. As I said, in the future, we need to assess what capacity should be. What's amazing is that after many years you've actually been able to get rid of the reconciliation queues. It's good for the victims, because those who are convicted of crimes quickly go to prison, and it's good for the perpetrators, who get settled quickly and can get on in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1543	‘Oslo police consistently resolve cases due to a lack of capacity, even in cases with a known perpetrator. In the inland police district, more than 5,000 cases were committed in 2016, a total of 870 on capacity. Remains of rape cases in the Oslo Police Department have increased from 40 in the summer to 100 now. The action area in the police districts has had a negative development of minus SEK 426 million from 2013 to 2016. Does the Council of State consider that there is a need for increased resources for police districts to address capacity challenges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1550	I refer to the representative's written question No. 751 for 2017-2018, which I gave an answer on 29 January this year, on the same matter. I will therefore repeat much of what I said in the letter. The prosecution authority is independent in its handling of individual cases in the criminal field. In other words, the prosecution authority cannot be instructed by political authorities. Whether an individual case is filed and on what basis is an actionable matter falling within the scope of the prosecution authority. I also point out that former government councillor Anders Anundsen in a letter dated 21 January 2014 addressed the Riksadvokaten challenges related to capacity allocations. The Advocate General states that criminal proceedings instituted for lack of procedural capacity are governed by circular No. 3/2016. Among other things, it is clarified that: that cases involving a known perpetrator can only be resolved if there are particular reasons for this. It also states that access to accommodation in these cases is very narrow, even for the less serious cases. The congestion policy shall be assessed in a restrictive manner and the police district shall have good procedural procedures for this type of provision. The individual police officer is responsible for carrying out his priorities within the assigned framework and must make strict priorities according to the overall leadership. It is therefore also important to recognise the Commissioner’s right and duty to make a concrete prioritisation, as long as it takes place within the given framework and overall leadership. With regard to the economic situation, there has been a significant effort on the part of the police in recent years. For details, I refer to the government's draft budget for 2018 and to the budget agreement concluded during Stortinget's examination of the proposal. Here I would like to mention that the police operating budget is being strengthened by 100 million. In 2018, priority will be given to police districts. In addition, 295 million went on. kr in increased operating resources from 2017. This helps to create more space for action in the police districts, but there will also be a need for tight governance and priority in 2018, as there are high expectations and demands for the police. At the same time, the police and the police officers must be given room for action to use resources in the most efficient way possible, within the framework conditions, targets and performance requirements set by my ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1563	Thanks for the answer. I record that there was much of the same reason that we have received on all the questions that have been asked about the police reform and capacity since we got a new increase last autumn. I had perhaps hoped that with a new government council we could get a new look at the matter as well. It's not just in Oslo that the problem is. We have received reports from a number of other states that they are struggling with capacity. For example, last week it was found that in Hedmark and Uppland there was no capacity to carry out transport operations: arresting, driving to prison, driving to medical visits for prisoners. There have been reports that there has been a need to release prisoners who should have been in custody, because there was simply no capacity to drive them to prison. From Mid-Troms we received last week's report that there is only one patrol on guard in an area of approx. 11,000 km2, which is larger than Akershus and Eastfold combined. Then my question is: does the Council of State feel that there are only priorities when you have to release prisoners who were to be in custody, from custody, and does the Council of State believe that all police districts in Norway have a wrong priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1575	In the field of crime, there is a great deal going on, and priorities need to be set. What is good now is that we have put in place a reform that will ensure that we build a stronger professional environment, for example. in the case of child abuse. I have visited several police districts that tell how they work on these kinds of issues, and that they now have the opportunity to give priority to these issues. We have looked at the number of posts in the police districts, and there has been an increase in all police departments in recent years. There are few sectors in which it has been as committed as the police in the years that this government has ruled. But it will always be that one would like to have more. We want to do that, of course, too, because the government's goal is to have two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. At the same time, we also need to look at how we use the resources we have, and I feel that the police around the country are focusing heavily on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1582	Then we also came up with another very important point, which is the goal of two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. This goal is set for the whole country, but there is great variation around the country, considering the extent to which that goal has been achieved. Oslo is above the target, but there are still capacity challenges. In other counties you are far below, for example. in Hedmark, which has 1.42 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants per day. More and Romesdal have even fewer than that, as far as I know. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that the target number – two per 1000 inhabitants – should apply to the country as a whole, or should it be per police district?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1589	That figure is for the country as a whole. There will be different needs around the country given the capacity you need. I think it's obvious to most people that, for example. Oslo needs a higher coverage of the police than for example. More and Romesdal. I visited them for a while back. It's one of the states where the least crime is committed, and of course I'm very pleased with that. But there will be variation between different parts of the country. Then I think it is right that we prioritise and set resources according to where the needs are. It will always be a desire for more money and more jobs, but we have to give priority in this area as well. I am very happy to enter a sector that has been one of the major areas of activity in recent years. Nearly 2,500 new police officers are on duty in the districts and in special agencies, doing a job to secure the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1596	Then we go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1604	When the government presented its long-term plan in June 2016, the Minister of Defence answered the question from the Labour Party about the GDP share of the defence budget in 2020. Then the Council of State wrote: ‘Depending on the projections and scenarios used, the share of the defence budget in GDP in 2020 will range between 1.58 and 1.71 [[...]] She further wrote: ‘Despite forecast, the share of GDP will increase.’ In January 2018, the Minister of Defence then replies that by 2020 the share of GDP will fall from the current level of 1.56 p.m. and down to 1.50 pst. The question to the Council of State is: ‘Why has the Storting not been informed of the changed financial assumptions for the 2017-2020 long-term plan, including the projections for GDP share development, and the resulting serious consequences for compliance with the NATO commitments of Norway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1621	First, I must be allowed to say that it is the government's plan and goal – and that is also the objective of the Jeløia Declaration – that we should move towards the 2 percent target. Then we have to look at the premises of the representative. This question I found was asked from the opposition six times since the long-term plan was adopted in 2016. This is going to be the seventh time we answer that question. Every time we say in the answer that in the forecasts of GDP, there is considerable uncertainty. That's what we see an example of here. When one responded in 2016, the forecasts, as they were then, were 1.56 p.m. to 1,71 p.m., and nothing in the predictions that were then, so that that number would go down. Nothing in the premises contained in the forecasts of the Statistical Central Bureau in 2016, until that figure would decrease. So gross domestic product has increased significantly, and that is so that with today's forecasts – with the forecasts of today's Central Statistical Office – we will see a downward curve. When my predecessor, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, answered the question in 2016, we saw that we were going to have an increase in the defence budget of 7.2 billion. in 2020, measured against the 2016 budgets. Then we negotiated the long-term plan in Stortinget and increased by 700 million. NOK, so we're now assuming an increase in the defence budget of SEK 7.9 billion. in 2020, measured against the 2016 budgets. Nevertheless, the large increase in GDP results in a falling coverage rate up to the 2-percentile. So it's not like that, as was suggested in the debate on the government statement, that this is about disinformation, or that we have withheld information. The central statistical agency provides these forecasts every three months. There has never been a quarterly assessment of these things, but we have a long-term plan that is now in place, and we follow it up with the budgetary increases we have. We're starting work on a new long-term plan now. The defence planning here is such that we see the defence in a 20-year perspective, but we are planning for the budget for the four years. That's what's in that plan, and we've followed it, and we've informed the Storting about all the changes in the plan, in investments that you do every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1632	The question is whether you've informed the Storting that the forecasts would change, so that you're really going away from doing what's NATO's goal. It sounds like these are technicalities. It's not, because this is about what NATO has adopted and the government has joined, and we've now got a black on white that you're not moving towards NATO's goal, but away from NATO's goal. When we got a response to questions from the Storting, it said that it was ‘significant uncertainty’, but it says ‘Despite forecast, the GDP share will increase’. In any case, ‘regardless’ does not open for interpretation, in any case. So my question is, at what point did GDP estimates change so fundamentally? When was that, and why didn't the government inform the Storting about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1637	This is probably a misrepresentation of the understanding of ‘regardless of prediction’. The forecasts that were available from the Statistical Central Agency then – and that is what you refer to in that response from 2016, the forecasts that were at that time – would show an increase in any case. Then, as I say, in the seven answers I've been able to pick up, we've always said that it's'significant uncertainty'. That is, as GDP increases, we will have a change. In 2016, however, there was nothing in the forecasts that meant that we would have a falling path, with the forecasts that existed when the answer was delivered by the Council of State. And that's not the point of that formulation: no matter what happens to GDP in the future. It is not possible to answer. That is why we have said that it is ‘significant uncertainty’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1642	I did not get an answer to my question. At what point did the government become aware that the GDP estimate changed, so that it went away and not against maintaining NATO's objectives? It is not the case that the Council of State has previously informed the Storting that there is considerable uncertainty. Yes, it has been, but one thing was obvious when we adopted the long-term plan, and it was that regardless of the forecast, the share of GDP would increase. And when the government has informed the Storting that whatever the forecast, it is that the defence budget will bring us to NATO's goal, then I wonder: When did the government get information that it went away from NATO's goal and not towards NATO's goal, and why wasn't the Storing informed about this completely fundamental assumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1647	Now I have to be clear. We have informed the Storting about the significant uncertainties. The central statistical agency delivers that kind of forecast every three months, i.e. quarterly, so we can go in every three months and make a new forecast. That's why we've said that number is associated with ‘significant uncertainty’. The understanding of the 2016 wording on ‘regardless of forecasting’ is not that no matter what statistical central agency will come up with from 2016 to 2020, we will have an increase in the percentage target. No, you can't understand that, because it's impossible to give such an answer. The understanding of that answer is that with the forecasts that existed in 2016, one would in any case see an increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1652	Then the Storting goes back to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1660	‘The size has been clear that saving should not be at the expense of the quality of education. Now future marine warriors are to be recruited right from high school and only 13 months of practical training at the Maritime War School and the rest of the three years at different locations around the country. The result is that the inexperienced officer, together with the command to significantly reduce training, is to lead the underprivileged. Does the Council of State take responsibility for ensuring that this will ensure good recruitment and the quality of the increasingly demanding defence of the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1667	The government and I are concerned that the defence education system should be further developed in order to meet future skills needs. New military addendum arrangements have been adopted in Stortinget and were put into effect from 1 January 2016. It implies that we have introduced two categories of military personnel; we have specialists, and we have officers. It also makes us have to look at education, so that we have one education in the form of specialists, and another education in the form of officers for the need we want in the future. In the past, we had one education pillar for the Unit Command. The training reform we are currently in the process of reforming the skills needs of both categories of staff. It will therefore be a training pillar for officers — but a different type of officer than we had before — and it will be a training pillar for the specialist command. We get the officers through the War School, and we get the special order through the Falcon School and the commanding training. After the educational reform, the Cadets at the Defence College will achieve a Bachelor's degree in military studies, as today. The length of the higher education course will be a continuation of today's length of education at the War School. Education shall focus on military core competence. Officers shall be trained in the management, planning and conduct of military operations. Education, including in military core competence, shall be research-based. There is a good cooperation between the Defence College, the Armed Schools and the Defense Receiving Departments. Together, the specialists and officers will have the necessary complementary skills, based on the needs of the defence. A separate Board of Defence College shall also be established. The Administrative Board shall be subject to the Chief of Defence and, inter alia, to: be responsible for the professional quality of the training. The military commanders of the forces shall be represented on the board of directors. The commanders of the forces shall ensure that the military competence needs are met. The quality of training shall also in future meet the needs of the defence, while reducing the costs of training. That there may be challenges in the transition from old to new systems, we should not ignore them. The defense will continue to recruit to the war schools among the talents in charge of the Defense. In addition, it will be possible to apply to the war schools directly from high school. This will create a broader recruitment basis than before. For the training year starting in the autumn of 2018, the defence is well in the process of informing the environments from which it can be recruited to the education of the defence, and through the education reform, the defence is able to provide relevant, good education to meet future skills needs. It should also ensure recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1682	Thanks for the description. Defence equipment is becoming increasingly advanced and operations are becoming more complex. Capabilities for leadership and interaction have always been crucial for the maritime wars. The aim of reorganisation was to make training less fragmented, but the result has become the opposite. The maritime war school has never had a stronger professional environment than they had until now. Now they're ribbed for professionals, they're required to cut down with a significant number of employees. The result is that staff members with doctoral degrees have stopped, and more people with acute competence also have to stop. Does the Minister think that we get more robust professional environments by weakening the Maritime War School, fragmenting education and centralising more to Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1691	I believe that we are getting better education by seeing the education reform and new military system in the context. We're building a new type of officer, and we're building a new kind of specialist that's going to take care of what I totally agree with the representative in is a complex and more complicated defense in the future. It's more complex because we're using a completely different kind of technology in the future, and more complex because we have a defense that's going to operate in a much more complex security image more embedded in the civil world. What was previously only military technology with very high-eating personnel will in the future be a hybrid between civil technology and military technology. We build specialists to be able to deliver in the complex image. We build officers who are going to have a different role and deliver in a much, much more complex image in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1696	It seems that the Minister's description does not match the impression I get when I meet the Maritime War School. The government has ordered the War School to purchase all training in disciplines in which civilians can provide training — despite the fact that today’s system is more reasonable, linking theory and practice and adapting it to training in military terminology and practice. Until today, almost everyone has completed the Marine War School, but in high school, there is a decline of between 20 and 30 pst. Future training must therefore take place at many different locations, with little time for practice. Recruitment is mainly from high school, and general vocational training is disrupted. What arguments does the Minister have for improving quality now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1701	I have the same arguments that I used when I went to the Maritime War School and Bergen Military Society. I have the same arguments that I use when discussing the educational reform around. I have no problem seeing that I'm resisting, that it's complicated, but that's a big change we're making now. I note that the representative Grung and I agree that we will need another type of officer and another type of specialist in the future, simply because the picture will be more complicated. The fact that we use the civil universities and colleges to give the studies you can get, there, is simply because you do it in a cheaper way and can spend more resources on the pure specialist defence training and build military core competence. It is, in my view, a very good system, and I believe that we have good control of the reform we are embarking on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1706	The President cannot see that the questioners for questions 18, 19 and 20 are in the Chamber. We take the opportunity to jump to question 21, which is from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister of Research and Higher Education Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1714	First I get to congratulate the new Council of State on the job. I'm looking forward to the cooperation. So to the question: ‘In the last two years, the number of students outside the EEA area, in particular from developing countries, has declined significantly, probably as a result of a change in government strategies, including the removal of the quota system. What effect does the Council of State believe that the adopted increase in the student visa fee will have on the internationalisation of higher education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1723	Let me start by thanking you for the congratulations, and I am also really looking forward to a good cooperation with the representative and with the Labour Party. Internationalisation of higher education is important. Extensive international cooperation and mobility of students and employees are crucial for the success of Norway in higher education and research. The Quality Communication, which was addressed by Stortinget last year, underlined the importance of internationalisation for quality. This means that student mobility is important for each student, but also has an impact on the quality of education in Norway. It is important that Norwegian students are given the opportunity to take all or part of the education abroad. It follows from the Jeløya platform that the government will provide a big message about foreign studies and Norwegian students abroad. It is also important that Norwegian universities and colleges can attract qualified students from the rest of the world. To succeed in this, we have a policy and a range of mobility programmes that promote exchange and cooperation. The INTPART programme stimulates international partnerships for excellence in education, research and innovation. The UTFORSK programme is a more low threshold offering to support professionally based cooperation in higher education, with a view to long-term and institutionally anchored cooperation relations. Both of these programmes are targeting Brazil, India, Japan, China, Russia and South Africa. The NoRPART programme supports educational cooperation and student mobility between educational institutions in Norway and developing countries. These are three of the most recent instruments in a number of mechanisms aimed at strengthening internationalisation. In the funding system, we have established good financial incentives for the exchange of students between Norwegian and foreign institutions. If an institution gets more foreign exchange students, or sends out more students, it gets more money. It's fixed rate per student. For departing students in the Erasmus+ programme, the institutions receive DKK 15 000 and for ordinary exchange students they receive DKK 10 000. We also have good training support schemes, for example. scholarships and loans to pay school money abroad. It is therefore important to bear in mind that internationalisation and incentives for student mobility are about far more than just visas and fees associated with it. I think it would be wrong to mention the fee for a student visa as a sneering of school money, as someone has done. It is payment for visas, and this is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Defence. The question of the price level of visas must therefore be addressed to the Minister of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1742	I thank you for the presentation of the various measures taken by the government. However, I would like to draw your attention back to the concrete action I have taken recently, for in the past, the government of the Left has adopted the opinion ‘Education across borders!’, where the party addressed the issue of school money and defended the free principle of Norwegian higher education. The left-wing opinion was then a clear and clear no to the proposal of the Right-wing Party Government in the State budget to charge school money to students outside the EEA, and this has been repeatedly proposed by the Blue-Blue Government. The Labour Party does not want Norway to contribute to an increase in the cost of international exchanges and to a reduction in the number and privilege of students, and these student visas must be paid by some. We want education to be accessible to everyone, regardless of what your parents serve, and where you come from. So then I would like to ask the Council of State: What effect does she think that the mentioned significant increase in the fee on the required student visa will have on the free principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1747	As I also said in my speech, the visa costs are the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Defence, and she is the one who has to answer the question asked by the representative. What I can say is that school money is not part of the Jeløya platform. What's part of the Jeløya platform is that we want an internationalization, that we focus on getting international students to Norway, but also that we want Norwegian students to go abroad, and that's why there's also a big deal about it. I believe that it is important both for higher education and for research, which is international in its nature, that it is a good cooperation. But that cooperation can't be just about students and being at the student level, it must also be about cooperation at the institutional level, and that's what we're trying to include in the programs that exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1752	I record that visas are the responsibility of another Council of State, but it is important here that the government takes overall responsibility for internationalisation, because we are part of a larger world, and internationalisation is necessary to achieve academic goals. When knowledge becomes global, internationalisation becomes a very important guiding principle for both the development of knowledge and the dissemination of knowledge. That's why we're a little disappointed by the distance between what the government says and what they do in practical policy in this area, because it's a little bit hollow to talk about how important it is with internationalisation and opportunities for everyone at the same time as a practical policy that weakens mobility and makes it harder to get a place to study in Norway. Therefore, I would like to ask the new Council of State if she is willing to change the government's strategies and measures that prove to weaken internationalisation and the free principle, and address it to the College of Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1757	I am concerned that the big message with which we are going to get to Stortinget looks at it widely with internationalisation. Then we'll get back into it with what measures may be necessary. The representative also addresses this issue with allowance students. To that I want to say that 2015 was a top year, and so we have seen a decrease in the number of quota students – if we look away from them from the BRICS countries – in 2016 and 2017, but nevertheless the figures for 2016 and 2017 are higher than for 2013 and 2014, so the new schemes will not quite see the result until a time has elapsed, because it started in 2017, and the new students are actually expected to come first from 2018. So the Stortinget has asked for an evaluation, and that evaluation is going on and will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1764	We go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1772	This question, from the representative of Kristoffer Robin Haug to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be raised by the representative of Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1777	«In January, the Government sent proposals for 103 search blocks to be consulted. In addition, 75 extraction permits were granted, the maximum number of Norwegian sockets ever. Councillor Elvesuen has confirmed, as far as we understand, that this does not conflict with the government platform. This means that the new government will continue the oil policy of the red-green and blue-blue governments and continue to inject Norwegian capital and competences into the fossil industry. Does the Council of State consider that the oil policy of the government is in line with the Paris agreement?»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1784	The Paris Agreement has collective objectives and does not place any concrete constraints on individual country's oil policy. Norway’s formal contribution lies in our objective of reducing emissions by at least 40 pst in 2030. in comparison with 1990. However, in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, we need a long-term shift from fossil to renewable energy use and production. This is true even if the measure is 2 degrees, or also an enhancement by stretching to 1.5 degrees. This government has protected the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja from petroleum activities for this large-scale period. In addition, there shall be no petroleum activity at Jan Mayen, the ice edge, Skagerrak or the Mortars. The Government will present a revision of the Barents/Loft Management Plan in a Communication to the Stortinge in 2020. The definition of the icing edge boundary boundary will be addressed in this message. 25th concession round will not be carried out until the revision of the management plan has been completed. When granting extraction permits in the 24th concession round, attention shall be given to environmental professional advice in or close to particularly valuable areas, including an assessment of whether further limitations should be placed on exploration in oil-bearing layers in the case of new extraction permits near Bear Island. How the environmental assessments are going to look at each case, we need to see when the decisions are to be taken. This government is committed to maintaining a responsible and predictable petroleum policy in response to the climate challenges. In order to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the petroleum sector, several instruments have been in place for decades. The sector is part of the ETS sector and is additionally subject to CO2 taxes and regulations such as: prohibition of torturing. These instruments limit greenhouse gas emissions from the sector. The government will impose stringent climate requirements for the production phase on Norwegian soil, including the requirement for the best available technology. The Government will also contribute to the development of a cost-effective technology for the capture, transport and storage of CO2. I also look forward to the Climate Change Risk Committee presenting its report on a short year. Increased knowledge of a country’s overall exposure to climate risk will strengthen the information base so that policies and instruments can be addressed in a way that reduces its vulnerability to climate risk and ensure long-term value creation. Norway is the first country in the world to have dropped such a sample, and the government will follow the recommendations and evaluations of the sample. In the Jeleia platform, we also state that petroleum companies should make climate risk visible in their development plans by incorporating climate risk into the decision-making framework. We also point out that we will impose strict climate requirements for the production phase on Norwegian soil. So yes, I believe that the government's oil policy is in line with Norway's obligations under the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1805	I thank the Council of State Elvesuen for the answer. We in the Greens must then note that the Left goes in the same trap as the SV did when they were in government. Some small green measures are being taken in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. At the same time, one is co-responsible for an enormous effort on fossil energy, which is continuing. Let me just take one example: Fresh figures from the SSB estimate that Norwegian investment in the fossil industry in 2018 will be 144 billion. kr. The total investment in all other industries totals 20 billion. kr. That's seven times as much for the fossil industry. Does the Council seriously believe that these investments in new fields, which will increase production beyond the 2030s, are in line with the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1814	Firstly, for me and for the Left, it is definitely not like not having petroleum activity in the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, Jan Mayen, the ice edge, the Mørebanken and Skagerrak are small measures. This has been an important long-term policy, which has been a struggle to achieve. There is no doubt that the government recognizes that there are two challenges throughout its platform. One is that we should reach the commitments we have under the Paris Agreement, which involves the process of the Paris Agreement of enhanced action, which also needs to be implemented by all other countries. The second is that we need to have a clean development in the Norwegian economy that enables us to meet a development where we also know that the petroleum sector will over time be less important in Norway. This is precisely why the Climate Risk Committee has also been reduced, and its report... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1821	The Council of State now says what all Norwegian governments have said for 30 years – I think he has been infected by the Ministerial Virus – that Norway, on the one hand, is going to save the world from climate change and create a dynamic and diverse business life while being one of the world’s biggest exporters of climate-damaging petroleum. This strategy has been set at the wrong time again. The left has previously addressed a real green growth. Norway does not provide green growth according to OECD indicators compared to Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Switzerland, etc. That is why we in the Greens want to propose a new strategy: what about shifting tax incentives to green industries? The Council of State has previously decided to wind up the exploration grants. We can also stop the opening of new fields. Does the Council of State agree that such a fundamental change in Norwegian energy policy is needed in order to respect the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1828	The process now is that we have a climate risk committee to report. We are the first country in the world to have dropped such a sample, which will look at the whole of Norway's economy according to both risk, of course, for the climate change we face, and also what other factors we need to look at in the Norwegian economy. We are for that, and it's important as a first step, and then it has to be followed up. The second is, of course, we're going to have incentives and a tax system that helps us get green economic growth. Is that what we've been doing in recent years as well, it's precisely because we have support systems through Enova, environmental technology systems and the other systems, and research that goes within it, but also that we have reliefs in technology development, we have a technology development, and the electric car deployment is one of these. It is now also important to bring this about in green shipping and to have systems that allow for the development of economic growth in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1838	I almost wanted to continue the previous debate, but I can't! ‘A unanimous decision was taken at the end of 2017 that Enova’s mandate included the expansion of shore-side electricity for cruise ships under municipal or private control. Ensuring that Enova actually supports the organisation of shore-side electricity for large ships is essential for reducing air pollution and emissions. In his reply to BT on 29 January, he expressed doubts as to whether he had intended to change the guidelines for Enova to ensure this. Can the Council of State explain in concrete terms how he intends to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1847	Ships connecting to the power supply when in port provide both reduced greenhouse gas emissions and improved air quality. We are now speeding up the land-flow approach, and that's where Enova is our most important tool. The role of Enova in climate policy is well described in the Jeløya platform and is an important instrument in climate policy and in the development of the energy system of the future. The governance agreement with Enova includes specific conditions for Enova to contribute to the development of fuel infrastructure for emission-free land and maritime transport, inter alia. electricity and hydrogen. The agreement thus ensures that Enova has a mandate covering shore-side electricity for municipal and private cruise ships. Since 2016, Enova has allocated over 370 million. SEK in aid for a total of 60 shore-side electricity projects. The initiative continues in the years ahead. The government wants it to become perfectly common to connect ships to power when they are in port. Enova uses open competitions with clear criteria when granting grants to shore-side electricity. Enova assesses the applications based on the amount of support required to trigger projects and the potential for use. Recently, the fifth terrestrial electricity competition was lightened. The criteria remain broadly unchanged from the previous round. The operational potential is calculated on the basis of the number of ports visited, the power needs of vessels and the length of berthing. Projects with the highest greenhouse gas emission reduction per aid crown are thus prioritised. With this approach, they may, in line with State aid law, provide higher aid than under normal application-based schemes. The calls also include shore-side electricity for cruise ships under municipal and private control. Cruise ships are large and draw a lot of electricity in a short time when they are connected to shore power. The local network in the areas where cruise ships are added is often not dimensioned to take such cargoes. This entails high investment costs. The season for cruise ships is also limited, so that the period of use of facilities is lower than that of other types of ships. Expensive landings and low service life in some cruise ports have led to the fact that they have not yet reached the competition for Enova aid. The decision the representative referred to was taken in Stortinget just before Christmas. The responsibility for Enova was transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment three weeks ago. In the further follow-up, I will deal with the Storting decision and ensure that this will be done within the framework of the mandate of Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1870	I would like to thank you for an answer that I think is better than what I got from the minister who had the responsibility of Enova in the past. I also registered that the Council of State gave an answer to written questions from representative Grung a few weeks ago, and the answer was about the same; he refers to general terms of reference in Enova. But does the Council not see the need for the cruise boat industry to be specified in the mandate, when Enova herself has said – earlier on at least – that they cannot support such large projects as shore-stream to cruise boats? Then the economy is also incredibly important. The question then is what the new Council of State can get into the budgets in the future, so we are going to follow closely. Does the Council of State see that money is the main issue now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1879	There is no doubt that land flow is an area of activity for the government via Enova. In the agreement with Enova, land flow is also an important bet factor together with other zero-emission infrastructure to be rolled out. And that is the stage we are now in, that Enova supports many measures to shore-side electricity. The fifth competition is now being announced, and it is clear that there will also be a sixth and a seventh competition. But I can't decide who's going to get the hit. That assessment must be carried out by Enova herself, and they must take it into account the projects they consider to have the greatest effect. So, of course, those who are applying can be involved and influence how far you get, by participating in and providing local support, so that you also have a room for action to contribute, to get further into the application panel that Enova has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1886	Thank you again for your answer. The Council of State then probably sees that the competitive model chosen, with relatively small frameworks for such large projects, can lead to cruise boats still not getting funds because it is simply too large a sum we are talking about. It is quite regrettable, given that there are now almost 700000 cruise boat tourists in Norwegian fjords each year, and that each of these passengers is responsible for about three times more CO 2 emissions per passenger kilometre than when using a private car. I ask again: will the Council of State actively contribute to the substantial increase in the budgets of Enova in the next budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1898	Now I can't say anything about the 2019 budget, but there's no doubt that the Enova budget has increased significantly in the last four years, so there's been an increased framework within which they can work. Enova has a broad mandate to follow charging infrastructure, including on land, but this is a priority area. And, as I say, that bet will continue. Which projects are now covered by the applications, I don't know, but Enova has its resources, and then you have an opportunity to influence by also having a separate room for action to contribute to building that infrastructure. Then I want to add that national efforts are also being undertaken to reduce the pollution of cruise traffic, initially towards the World Heritage fjords. It's been important to start with the World Heritage fjords, and it's better to extend it to ships all along the coast. It will be assessed when the Maritime Directorate has completed the task of assessing the requirements for ships in the World Heritage fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1911	I would first like to take the opportunity to congratulate Elvesuen on a new job – it is nice to meet him as a State Council. Good luck – it is at least no longer than it has to be possible to congratulate yet. I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘In the winter of 2017/2018 there have been 11 days of red alerts for exceedance of local air pollution limits in Oslo. When I took up the consequences of increased use of biofuels for local health damage with the Minister of Climate and Environment in Stortinget on 15 February 2017, he promised that an impact assessment would be carried out on this spring 2017 and that it would be assessed before the regulation fixing of the biofuel escalation plan. What is the status of these biofuel assessments with regard to local air quality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1922	First of all, I would like to thank you for your congratulations. It's nice to be here. About one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions originate from transport. Biofuels are part of the solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector if they are sustainably produced. Although air quality in Norway has improved over time, there is still too much air in several cities. This applies, inter alia, to: in Oslo. I therefore agree with the representative that it is important to have good knowledge of the relationship between local air quality and the use of biofuels. In line with the then State Council Helgesen informed in its response last year, the Environment Directorate carried out an impact assessment of the biofuel recovery plan in spring 2017. Effects on local air pollution were included in the impact assessment. When biofuels are used instead of fossil fuels, the exhaust emissions of the vehicles are changed. The changes in emissions depend on many factors, including the emission class of the vehicle, the incorporation rate, the type of biofuels, driving conditions, engine settings and exhaust cleaning. Emissions are also affected by weather and climatic conditions. Overall, however, available literature does not appear to provide an indication of any significant difference in the health effect between exhaust emissions from fossil diesel and from biodiesel. Therefore, based on the knowledge available, there does not appear to be any reason to emphasise the effect on local air quality when considering whether the use of biofuels should be stepped up. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in recent years the government has given cities more new instruments in the field of local air quality. These instruments allow the introduction of low-emission zones, environmental differentiation in the bombardment and additional tariffs on the most polluting days. Furthermore, the tariffs in the bombings have generally increased. It is also allowed that the county councils and the municipality of Oslo can impose environmental requirements on taxis. We see that several cities are strengthening the work in this field, but there are still too many exceedances of the limit values for air pollution. The government has also taken other important steps to reduce the use of passenger cars in urban areas, and with that pollution. Examples include increased appropriations for public transport in urban areas and lower monthly card prices of NSBs on routes outside the areas of tariff cooperation. The continuation of the electric car load also contributes to lower pollution. While implementing pollution reduction measures, it is important that we provide adequate knowledge of the impact on local air quality by other measures. Only in this way can we avoid these counteracting each other. The conclusion is that the problem is diesel — and not particularly biodiesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1947	I thank you for your answer. What I want to record, as I was missing, concerns the part of the car park that runs on petrol. This will continue to be a significant proportion. It's about the cars that are going to have a blend of biofuels up to 20 p.p., and about the part of the car park that's going on petrol, which has less greenhouse gas emissions than those that are going on biodiesel, but which also have small NO 2 emissions today – if the NO 2 emissions are going to increase from that part of the car park with an increased blend of biofuels, and about the other emissions, such as: a NILU report on urban air pollution identified contains substances called aldehydes, organic compounds derived from bioethanol, in such a composition may be harmful to urban air at local emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1960	I have no information other than that provided by the Environment Directorate, which has been subject to the inclusion requirement. It is important to say that there is a marketing requirement. It is the total turnover and not necessarily the incorporation into the individual product that is crucial. The issue of biofuels related to petrol will be what it is also a big decision to look at the industry standard for E10, if I am not mistaken – that you get a blend of ethanol up to 10 pst. Today it's at 5 pst. Whether it poses any health challenges other than what ordinary petrol does, or it distinguishes between 5 pst. and 10 pst. interference, is in case unknown to me. I have to deal with and support the Directorate-General for the Environment's investigation, which shows that there is no literature available that indicates that this is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1967	I thank you for your answer and for the Council of State's interest in the topic – and for perhaps getting further involved in that very part. Now, perhaps fewer people buy cars that go on biodiesel, because of the criticism against it. Either you buy electric cars or hybrid cars, or you buy more traditional petrol cars. So this is going to be 10 pst. the incorporation of bioethanol or biofuels into the fuel of petrol cars could lead to some increase in NO 2 emissions and some increase in what was specifically warned in the report, emissions called aldehydes, which are carcinogenic, and volatile organic compounds, VOC, which occur when bioethanol is released in particular and which are carcinogenic. This is what I think we should take seriously, so that we don't come in two to three years and say that there was a loss, as we did at the time in 2007, when we gave biodiesel benefits, which many parties have repented afterwards. I would like to encourage the Council of State to look at that part as well as, among other things. the NILU report I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1979	I think I'll make the priority clear: the most important thing is to avoid having a traffic increase towards the big cities. So the bet is on walking, cycling and public transport – and eventually also on zero emissions in public transport. Number two must be to reduce the use of diesel in particular – because it is where the main problems are – that more zero-emission transport is constantly being provided for towards the large cities, including the goods transport, the taxi and the instrument we have there. It's diesel that's the biggest problem with local pollution. It has therefore also been said that it is possible to have a separate ban on certain categories of vehicles, including diesel vehicles, and that petrol is a minor problem. So here it's going to be to look at – even though petrol is a smaller problem – if there are still elements of a biomix in petrol that are more than what is in the ordinary petrol. We're going to have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e1988	Question 21 is already answered. Case No. So 2 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-07.ana.ud483e2004	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
