ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e49	Before we begin on today's map, I have a short message for Stortinget: I have been told that the Christian People's Party has drawn its support to me as a Grand President. Of course, I want to get rid of that role. I want to make it possible for us to be able to elect a new president in a short time. The construction case is and has been a difficult matter for Stortinget, and I hope that when I leave now, I can help to calm down the matter, and that we can get it carried on in the best possible way. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative of Terje Aasland from 8 March onwards and until further notice from the Workers’ Group on the Permit of the Representative of Kari Henriksen from 12 March to 16 March to take part in the 62nd Women’s Commission meeting in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For West Agder County: Odd Omland 15–16. March For Telemark County: Christian Thinning Bjørnø March 8th and until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e93	Christian Thinning Bjørnø is present and will take the seat. The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e100	I would like to put forward a representative proposal on behalf of Mr Iversen, Mr Adelsten Iversen, Mr Borch, Mrs Anne Bøkestad Andreassen and myself that the fishing ports should continue to be a State responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e105	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e110	First, I would like to congratulate all the women on their women's day. Then I will put forward a proposal from Karin Andersen, Mona Fagerås, Freddy André Øvstegård, Solfrid Lerbreck and myself for nine measures to ensure safe maternity care in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e117	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e148	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e157	We have had a well-functioning weapon law for more than 50 years, but it has been completed over time with comprehensive regulations and instructions that are difficult to get into. This has necessitated a new, updated law in line with time. The proposal for a new arms law clarifies the rules for the acquisition and use of firearms adapted to today’s society, and important issues of principle are raised from the regulatory level to the law. This will contribute to a clearer and more predictable regulatory framework, but also to a stricter regulatory framework. The proposal for a new arms law has been adapted to the new EU legislation, as a result of several terrorist incidents in Europe. Since the EU Arms Directive is a so-called Schengen-relevant directive, it will be implemented in Norwegian law. In summary, EU legislation has been brought up to Norwegian standards, as the Norwegian Arms Act has been practised for many years. There has therefore been no need to make major changes. The changes that have been necessary to implement have been incorporated into the new law, for example: requirements for the registration of de-bombed/plombed weapons. The Committee broadly supports the proposal for a new arms law as it exists, so it is not necessary to say so much more about the proposals, which everyone agrees with. In the draft new Arms Act, it was proposed that the current hunting weapon wardrobe on six weapons be continued. The majority – the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Centre – believe that a certain number of six weapons may become too rigid in individual situations, and propose that the number be increased to eight weapons, as suggested by individual hearing bodies. This majority also believe that the heirs of weapons should be exempted from the limitations of the hunting armory. Often, this old weapon has a value greater than the value of hunting weapons. In the case of semi-automatic rifles, it is proposed to legislate a general ban on the acquisition and possession of semi-automatic rifles originally designed for fully automatic operation or intended for the military and police. Nevertheless, it opens under strict conditions for sportsmen and other active shooters in e.g. The Association of Norwegian Reserve Officers may be specifically authorised to acquire and hold such weapons. The ban means that some weapon types that can be acquired today on the basis of hunting tests will be prohibited in the future. The prohibition does not generally affect semi-automatic hunting rifles so that they can still be acquired and used for hunting purposes, as provided. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Progress Party note that the amendment to the Code on Weapons has previously been given little retroactive effect. It has been normal for weapons that were legally acquired in accordance with older legislation to remain until the death of the owner of the weapon. These members understand that it may be problematic to dispose of semi-automatic rifles when the market in Norway disappears. These members therefore believe that the government should consider a compensation mechanism for arms owners covered by the new prohibition. One last point that I will comment on is the right of the police to check whether the weapon is kept safe in the owner's home. According to Section 30, fifth paragraph, the police may require access to the keeper’s private housing to check whether weapons and ammunition are kept properly. The detailed conditions for requiring access to the private dwelling will be laid down in the regulation with the exception of § 41 paragraph. 28. It has therefore not been necessary to decide in which cases and how long in advance it needs to be notified, when we now deal with the law itself. These questions will come back in the course of the regulatory work, but the Progress Party assumes that a time limit for alerting will be set before the verification is carried out. Otherwise, it shall be mentioned that there is a sentence in the Inst remarks. 146 L which is incorrect. The sentence is: ‘This is the explanation that prior advance warning has been withdrawn from the new weapons code.’ You can ignore this sentence. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e194	I want to start by thanking the case manager for a good job. I also want to commend the government for presenting this important matter. The Arms Act is 50 years old and is supplemented by many comprehensive regulations and regulations. One has probably felt that he was a little unaccessible and difficult to get into, as the case-speaker also said. This new Arms Act sets out the rules at the same time as one strengthens social security. The Labour Party largely supports the proposals for changes in its laws. I'm glad that the law now comes with a priority paragraph on social security, which focuses on safeguarding society, and that the care of social security always leads to the individual's need for firearms. I've been listening to this case. It also removes the involvement of several organisations. The Labour Party, as the Committee otherwise has, has tried to meet some of the Hearing Officers. Even if we do a few exceptions to the proposition, I would like to stress that everything that is at issue today from the Labour Party side is still in line with the purpose paragraph. There was a proposal for a hunting weapon wardrobe. That's for me. It was added up to six weapons. As the case spokesman said, we also think that there might be a little bit of rigour, and the multiples in the committee add up to eight. In addition, we believe that the requirement for a compulsory weapon to be used by a sports shooter is laid down in the regulation. For the prior warning of a check, I would like to repeat some of what the case spokesperson said. It is written in the Committee's comments: ‘The Committee points out that when there is a legitimate suspicion of breaches of the personal conditions and there is reason to believe that the weapon may be misused, the police must be able to intervene and seize without prior notice.’ This means I'm in line with the purpose paragraph of this law. At the same time, I would like to stress the same thing as Liv Gustavsen said that when it comes to routine control, the government has said that one will pre-notify, and that it should be laid down in a regulation. So that question is quite clear. The government's party may not be quite a part of it. We are used to the fact that the Progress Party may have an opinion on Stortinget and another in government, but I want to ask a question about compensation, because it is not in the proposition that one should be able to assess or look at the possibility of compensation when a ban on some types of semi-automatic rifles – the ones with the greatest damage potential – is implemented. There is a proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party to consider how to compensate for this. Actually, I believe that if the Progress Party as a government party proposes this in Stortinget, it is anchored in the government, but I think I have to ask it as a question because the Right does not support the proposal. Otherwise, I refer you to the comments on the matter, recommend the recommendation from the committee and take up the suggestions that we accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e218	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e223	An important conclusion of the Commission's report of 22 July was to ban semi-automatic weapons. The proposition we are dealing with today is a follow-up to it and the follow-up to the EU Arms Directive. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of both in Norway and abroad that weapons with high potential for damage are being used in meaningless terrorist actions to do the most harm. I am therefore pleased that we are now getting a ban on semi-automatic weapons, as recommended by the Gjørv Commission. This will be the last thing that is in place for us to have now followed up all the elements of a safer society in the Gjørv Commission report. So I'd like to say something about the bill itself. We have long had strict rules to hold and acquire weapons in Norway, unlike in some other countries. Now that we are ratifying the EU Arms Directive, we can actually say that the Arms Directive is being brought up to Norwegian standards. We have been very clear that semi-automatic rifles originally designed for fully automatic operation, for military or police purposes should not be permitted. At the same time, we do not want to hit legitimate hunting and shooting interests too hard. We have a long tradition in Norway for hunting, and it should also be possible for shooters to practice their sport. Therefore, the prohibition does not generally apply to semi-automatic hunting rifles. The same applies to those engaged in high-level shooting. The prohibition concerns, for example, the type of weapon used on the Utøya in 2011. We don't want people holding that kind of weapon. You just don't need to do that. And can you be sure that you need it, for example, as a collector or as a sports shooter, under strict conditions you have the opportunity to have it. Then I also need to clarify and clarify the police's access to conducting house surveys, because there have been many different rumors here that it is no longer possible to issue a prior warning. The rule that we have today is still to be there, and it says that the police for a general check must notify 48 hours before. But when there is a legitimate suspicion of a breach of the personal terms and conditions, there is reason to believe that the weapon may be misused, the police can seize the weapon without prior notice. It is incredibly important that this is clear – if these two moments are present, it does not require an alert. So whoever has pure flour in his bag actually has nothing to worry about. I am very pleased with the job done to modernise the Arms Act. When we hear the debate that rages in the United States after school shooting and see that politicians are not willing to intensify the arms laws, I am incredibly happy that we in Norway look at this differently. For us, social security weighs most heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e236	The hunting and shooting environment here to land is a fine and important part of Norwegian culture. Throughout the year, people were taken to the gym and the voices, and these are social meeting places for both the young and the elderly. It is quite possible to combine having a clear code that prevents unwanted events with weapons, by making it possible for sportsmen and hunters to perform their activity. The proposal put forward by the government for a new arms law is essentially a good one. We in the Center Party still have some amendments, because the government takes some steps that we think there is every reason to protest about. The first thing we disagree with is that the requirement for prior warning for the management of weapons at home is being taken out of arms law. As the government has now shaped its legislative proposal, it provides a basis for more uncertainty than the wording of the current law. One of the purposes of putting in place a new weapon law was to include several of the rules that are currently in force, in the laws to make the legislation more clear and transparent. Then, in my opinion, it is completely wrong to take this requirement out of the law to regulate it in a regulation. If the government does not intend to remove the requirement of prior warning in the case of regular administrative checks, the requirement should be made clear by the law, as it does today. The second amendment we have is the government's proposal to ban some semi-automatic hunting weapons. Here we are against the adoption of a ban in the form of a regulation against semi-automatic rifle models that are currently allowed to be used for hunting. As we see that there are going to be multiples in Stortingen for such a ban, we in the Center Party have concentrated on working to ensure that this ban will not be retroactive for those who have legally acquired such weapons. It is important to clarify that the government has not intended to ban semi-automatic hunting weapons in general. They're just going to ban some models, and we don't think they have any better reason to ban these particular rifle models than other models. When the government and the majority of the population want to do this, they should at least follow the custom of when the weapons that are already in use are banned. The practice requires that bans are not retroactive, and it would have been both fully possible and appropriate that those who are now legal owners of the rifle models in question should retain their weapons for their own use. So one could rather impose restrictions on how to dispose of and sell these weapons to others. Our second proposal is precisely that the government should ensure that any new ban on weapons that are legally acquired will not have retroactive effect. We are not going to get more of this in the hall today either. That's too bad. That's why it's all too bad that we don't get multiples for our third proposal either. This is about introducing a compensation scheme for arms owners who are under ban with retroactive effect. You can see what the government is doing when it comes to designing the regulations of this new weapon promise, but the fact that the government parties won't mess with us makes it all the reason for the pessimism of the arms owners it's all about. Firstly, the Government Party is in favour of a ban with retroactive effect. Secondly, they will not vote to introduce a compensation scheme for the many arms owners who will have to supply their weapons without remuneration within three years from the entry into force of the ban. The fact that the Progress Party and the Labour Party are proposing to assess how arms owners can be compensated is far too undercommittal. Both these two parties and the rest of the Committee point out in their comments that the arms owners have the possibility to sell their weapons abroad when a ban is imposed in Norway. It's paradoxical that they think that these weapons are too dangerous for us to keep them here to land, but that the same weapons are very much used abroad. In addition, the majority of the Committee may not have a practical approach to the matter. It would be very difficult for most individuals to sell these weapons to just abroad. We have amendments to the laws that intervene in the right of ownership and in the privacy of people, while not providing for a safer society. What we're pleased with is that there are multiples in the Committee for our views on increasing the so-called weapons wardrobe from six to eight weapons. Here the majority found a better and more practical solution than today's solution. I take this into account the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e253	The representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e258	Thank you for discussing a new weapon law, which SV is largely satisfied with. Norway is a country with long weapons traditions — hunting, home protection, collectors, sportsmen, etc. In itself, the amount of weapons in a society can be seen to pose a threat to our personal security – only that there are so many weapons present. However, unlike in many other countries, there are strict rules for both the acquisition, storage and use of weapons in Norway. Nor is there any debate in Norway, as in any other country, that people need weapons for private use, for private protection, such as drugs. The weapons debate in the United States. That is why we support the intentions of this Arms Act as well, that consideration for collective security must take precedence over the consideration of individual freedom. We are pleased that this new Arms Act continues a restrictive approach to having weapons in Norway. We are very pleased about that, and we wholeheartedly support it. In line with a restrictive position, SV believes that there is no need for people to own more than six weapons – there must be enough six weapons at home. We believe that not necessarily special needs or inheritances e.l. must open so that people can have more weapons. It will be inconsistent, we think, to go for a limit on the number of weapons per person as a rule of social security, but at the same time open that there may be different exceptional cases that allow you to have more weapons. It's not entirely related. Then we also welcome a ban on semi-automatic rifles. It must be that the Storting must be able to discuss at any time what types of weapons it is proper for the population to have, and that we reach that discussion and ban this weapon is good. To the claim for compensation: Many have written to me and thought that it is very wrong that we do not compensate for the weapons that are banned. I and SV believe that the Judicial Committee must be able on a free basis to assess which weapons should not be part of private property, without deterring the costs of banning this weapon. We must, on a fundamental and security basis, take that discussion without looking at the budgetary implications of this. That's why we're not advocating that, on a principle basis, we're going to add up to a system to compensate for the weapons that's being banned. Some of the things that have been discussed most, and which I personally have also received the most feedback from, are this system that the police should be able to come home and inspect people's weapons and weapons storage without having notified in advance. Many believe that this is an intervention in privacy according to the Constitution § 102. However, we have chosen to support it with the reasons that have emerged earlier today from the government party on the right. This home shall only be used on grounds of suspicion. We also expect the police to use that home with caution. If there are reports showing that the police are acting in such a way that this is perceived to be offensive, it is of course necessary to consider this scheme. But I actually think the opposite. I think most people in Norway are concerned that we should have a strict arms control. The system for the police to have insight into how people keep their weapons, and which weapons they have privately, will largely appreciate, because it will ensure the legitimacy of having many weapons in the country, and also the security of weapons storage. So I support the scheme that the police should be able to come unannounced on a visit if they suspect. So all in all, this is a nice weapon law. It takes us a step further. It covers the need for good arms control, and it also brings together the different requirements we have to control this in a good and restrictive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e279	I am pleased that the Justice Committee in general is following the government's proposal for a new arms law. The legislative proposal mainly continues the law in force and raises important questions of principle from the regulatory level to the legal level. This will contribute to a more clear and predictable regulatory framework. The proposal takes account of the good hunting and shooting culture we have in Norway, although some rules are proposed that will be a tightening in relation to the law in force. The legislative proposal also implements the requirements of the EU revised weapons directive to our national weapons legislation. The most striking intensification is the proposal for a ban on semi-automatic rifles originally designed for fully automatic operation, or for military or police. Such rifles have a high firepower and thus have a high potential for damage in the event of failure or abuse. It is therefore important to limit access, so that only those who have a specific need can hold such rifles. Specific derogations are proposed for sportsmen and weapons collectors. I note that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Senter Party are asking the government to assess how arms owners affected by the ban on the most dangerous semi-automatic rifles should be compensated. Since firearms have a long life span, a ban that will only apply to future permits will have limited effect. It is therefore proposed that the prohibition should also apply to authorisations already granted. In order to reduce the disadvantage of the prohibition, the proposal provides for transitional rules. These give the arms owners a period of three years from the entry into force of the Act to dispose of the weapons of persons who fulfil the conditions of authorisation or of the foreign market where this type of weapon is still allowed. Since provisions of the law have to be drawn up, the ban on semi-automatic weapons already in possession will hardly come into force until 2023. The legislative proposal continues to provide the main foundations for the acquisition of firearms, weapon parts and ammunition, which are hunting, shooting and gathering. The rule on the so-called hunting weapon wardrobe has been proposed. This means that persons who have passed the hunting test can acquire and hold up to six complete firearms for hunting without having to demonstrate a specific need for the weapons in question. I notice that the majority of the committee wants to increase the number of eight weapons. The bill strengthens police arms control. It shall be introduced, inter alia: standards of conduct for both natural and legal persons. Furthermore, key criteria for emphasising the fitness of the person to hold firearms, weapon parts and ammunition are laid down in law. The introduction of registration requirements and permit requirements for the import and export of firearms which have been deactivated is proposed. This amendment will strengthen the control of the deactivated firearms while at the same time implementing requirements resulting from the revised EU Arms Directive. Overall, I believe that the bill represents a good balance between the necessary arms control and the ability to exercise the traditional Norwegian hunting and shooting culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e304	In its statement, the Council of State states that it records the proposal made by the Labour Party and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how arms owners affected by the ban on certain types of semi-automatic rifles can be compensated.’ So the government council says that the right party is not behind this proposal. Therefore, I would like to ask: is the Council of State in agreement with the proposal of the Progress Party and the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e314	The government has presented its proposal for arms law in Stortinget. It's being treated here. Then I register that there are several parties who want to have such an order evaluated. It is the task of a Council of State to follow up the decisions of the Stortinget, and of course I will also do so in the case of a compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e321	This proposal is not likely to get multiples in Size, as it is currently set. The proposal is from the Council of State's own party. Will the Council of State, on its own initiative, look at the possibility of assessing such a scheme, even in the light of what the Council of State said about the implementation of the ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e326	We follow up the decisions taken in Stortinget. I registered the post from the representative Klinge on behalf of the Center Party, which I assume means that you want to vote in favour of the proposal that the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have promoted. So there will be a majority in favour of such a proposal, and of course we will follow up on the proposals that get a majority in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e331	Subsidiarity is what we do, yes. The government and the majority of the population will impose a ban on weapons that are already in use and that are still in sale and so on. It is bad if individuals in the period until the government imposes a ban on certain semi-automatic hunting weapons, spend a lot of money buying a weapon that they have to surrender in a few years without remuneration. It was easy for the promises to come into force in 2023. I think the Council of State has to make sure that the police officers know what types of weapons can be banned, so that the offices of lenenders can warn those who in future search for permission to buy these models, against being banned in a short time. Respect for the right of ownership should ensure that this prohibition did not have retroactive effect. At least the government should make sure that people don't buy the cat in the bag, now that it's actually clear that there's such a ban. Will the Council of State ensure measures to prevent people from buying a weapon that is soon to be banned altogether unwittingly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e340	Yes, of what I have seen in the debate, enough have brought about the changes that are now coming, but of course it will be those who have not. We're going to look at what can be done to prevent people from buying these weapons as if they were being banned in a few years' time. I take it back with me and look at what can be done – one is the police, but also those who sell these weapons should tell us about this. We're going to bring it back. At least it's not my wish that someone now buys the cat in the bag – a weapon that's being banned in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e345	The representative Guro Angell Gimse from the Right said in his post that one who has pure flour in the bag has nothing to worry about. But why are law-abiding weapons owners affected by the introduction of a new practice for banning some types of weapons? There is a new practice when the prohibition that is now announced is actually going to have retroactive effect, and in addition, the value of these weapons should not be compensated. It is right that the Centre Party will be able to form multiple numbers for the Workers' Party's proposal and the Progress Party's proposal to consider a compensation scheme, but we do have a proposal that is not primarily to be considered, but to actually introduce such a compensation scheme, which is much clearer and stronger, and which is binding. Does the Council of State think that she has stood up for her right of ownership in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e352	There will always be some balances as to which considerations to focus on. In this case, the government has been very clear that we have the security concerns of society as our top priority. We see around the world that situations arise related to weapons as there is every reason to take extreme seriousness. We see the discussion that is now in the United States. At least I am very happy that we have a restrictive law. In the time we live in, I think it's right to tighten up further. So it's like there's going to be great opportunities for the future to take care of the amazing environment we have in both the shooter and the hunting environments. I believe this is a law that will provide opportunities to continue the good traditions and the culture we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e359	We're probably busy with these environments, because there's a lot of work done there, and there's not least a high security culture. Here in the country we have very few events with weapons, if we ignore the Ut Island. What I'm wondering about is whether the government council is confident enough that the foundation for banning Mini Ruger 14 and possibly some similar models is good enough. In any case, for the prohibition on placing on larger warehouses than permitted for these semi-automatic rifles, it shall apply to rifles with both fixed and loose warehouses. It is not particularly difficult to adapt a weapon with a fixed magazine to be able to put on a replaceable magazine either, if you want to do something illegal. The point is that as long as people are law-abiding – and there are very much Norwegian shooters and hunters – this is not a problem. I wonder if the Council of State thinks she has enough reason to forbid Mini Ruger 14, even considering that we are getting the impression that this is not a weapon originally designed for police and military use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e364	The government believes that what happened on Utja Island alone is a good enough reason to remove Norwegian citizens' ability to hold this weapon. It is a fundamental matter for us that is incredibly important for us to follow up. Then there will be the possibility to have semi-automatic rifles in hunting contexts, but then with some limitations. I believe that this is the right thing to do, for the sake of what has happened in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e369	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e377	I also want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very good handling of the matter. There have been many interests inside the picture, many details, and it has been a comprehensive case. It has been done in a good and reassuring way. In the course of the discussion of this matter, we have probably all been called up by journalists from both the country and abroad. What I have experienced over and over again is that they have asked the question: Who really needs these military semi-automatic weapons? And I have to admit that it has been a difficult question to answer. So this amendment of the law is completely in place. It is reassuring that we are now able to reduce the number of semi-automatic, powerful weapons like this in society, and I believe that the vast majority also agree. It has been important to take the time needed to harmonise legislation with the EU, and also to have a good dialogue with the good shooting and hunting environments that exist in Norway. I have experienced them as constructive and cooperative in the whole process, so also a thank you to them. I want to clear up a bit of the debate – first with advance notice. Time and again, we have clarified that the pre-notification procedures that apply under normal management control should not be changed. They have to be stuck. It has now been clarified by the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and others, and then I think maybe we can agree to communicate that message out – instead of continuing to spread information and statements that you know are not correct. It can create stability and security outside of those involved in this matter. The other thing I want to clear up is this with compensation. The authorities ban things all the time. Had the left side crashed in Norway, I can guarantee that the list of prohibited things had been considerably longer. This doesn't mean that you have to automatically enter and compensate in each case. Exceptionally and primarily in the case of property expropriation. We have come to the conclusion that an economic compensation is not appropriate in this case. Liberal transitional arrangements should be provided, which should be sufficient. At a time when the political contempt is on the rise, I believe that sometimes it is the most tidy and right to call a spade a spade. Instead of making simple formulations to evaluate one, the other and the third, the Right fact is that in this case no economic compensation is realistic. There is a clear and clear message to those who care about this. And we stand by that, even though we most probably don't get a majority for it, because in this case, no economic compensation is appropriate. Otherwise, as I said, I would like to thank you for a constructive treatment of an inflamed matter. I think we all share a common interest in keeping Norway and society safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e394	I am historically interested and therefore use the occasion. I have had the pleasure of being a case rapporteur in this matter, and I also had the pleasure of joining the Norwegian Arms Historical Society's annual weaponry at Akershu's fastening earlier this year. There were hundreds of collectors of historical weapons showing their collections. The joy these law-abiding arms owners have over historical and Norwegian national values is admirable. The weaponry has history all the way back to Magnus Lagbøte's law of 1274 and the law of Kristian IV of 1604. Kristian IV's War Ordinance of 1628 ordered the peasants in Norway to equip and hire soldiers for the army. Therefore, these farmers had to come in once a year to the weaponry and show and get their weapons controlled. And the weaponry is still alive today – as is the case with Norwegian weapons history, among others. been taken care of. Here are the enthusiastic collectors who have historical weapon values. It is therefore gratifying that the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party agree to understand that marking the pooling weapon destroys the historical and cultural value of the object and considers that there must be room for such values to be preserved. We therefore propose the following proposals for decisions: ‘The King shall grant rules on exemptions from the marking of firearms after the first paragraph in order to avoid that marking would destroy the cultural or historical value of the firearms.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e406	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e422	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e431	Today we handle a proposal for a new limit law. The aim is to bring legislation into one law and to provide a clear and transparent legal basis. Today, the regulation of the tasks of the police in connection with border control is covered by various laws. The new border law is intended to anchor the police's responsibility to monitor and control passenger traffic across borders. This includes the crossing points, territorial waters and adjacent zones. In addition, the proposal is intended to strengthen police cooperation with other agencies. Among other things, the customs office and the Coast Guard are at the heart of discovering cross-border crime and illegal immigration. The bill specifies that the police are responsible for and hires the exercise of authority on their behalf and the assistance to the police for their border control. As a member of Schengen, Norway has undertaken to carry out external border controls against the Schengen area, and Norwegian border controls are now largely based on EU rules. Schengen cooperation brings down internal borders between Member States, particularly in the case of controls on persons. In addition to being a member of Schengen, Norway has international agreements with the individual neighbouring countries and with other countries in the form of conventions, treaties and conventions. The legislative proposal aims to make it clear that systematic border surveillance is only on the external Schengen border and that this external border surveillance is not carried out by the police alone, but by the defence of the garrison in South Varanger and Coast Guard on behalf of the police. Norway has borders with Russia, Finland and Sweden, and there are different laws at these borders. The border with Russia is the external border of the Schengen area. Norway is legally obliged to monitor the Norwegian-Russian border border in order to prevent illegal border crossings, both under the Schengen acquis and under the border regime agreement with Russia. At the border between Norway and Russia, border surveillance has since 1959 been carried out by the Defence of the GSV on behalf of the police, and the bill makes clear the legal basis for this use of military forces in the civil surveillance of the Schengen external border. Furthermore, the Nordic passport union was established on 1 July 1954. The Union ensures that citizens of the Nordic countries can cross the borders of the Nordic countries without taking passports and busses throughout the Nordic region without looking for any stoppages. The passport union has not been abolished, but has in practice been replaced by the Schengen cooperation. No personal checks will be carried out on the common Nordic borders, regardless of the nationality of the travellers. Although Norway, in accordance with the Schengen acquis, is not initially allowed to have personal checks at borders, Norway nevertheless introduced temporary personal checks at ferries and airports in 2015. The temporary control has been extended several times and is now extended until May 2018. I have noticed that the former Minister of Justice, Amundsen, said that, if the security situation so warrants, temporary control could be extended to air or border control. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter, and I think it is positive that we have a new law that aims to provide a better overview of the legislation on border control. It is important to facilitate the fight against cross-border crime and illegal immigration while ensuring that entry and exit control can be implemented quickly and easily for the large majority of people legally moving in and out of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e448	The legislative proposal is based on the qualitative requirements of Schengen cooperation for border control. The need for an update of the Borders Act is being worked on over several years. Finally, there is a renewal of the law. Perhaps it was right to use this time, as we – and Europe too – have changed – and unfortunately become a frequent target of terrorism in recent years. Border surveillance and border control are therefore very important for the safety of Norway. We see acts of terrorism in Europe, including in the Nordic countries. Therefore, the importance of Schengen cooperation is greater than ever. Although Schengen cooperation led to the opening of borders between neighbouring countries in the Nordic region, there was extra and stronger control at the external borders, i.e. Schengen. We have seen in recent years that we can quickly turn around and introduce our own passport checks if necessary, as we saw in 2015. That is why this is a double border check when the need arises. Termination of the Schengen Agreement now, in our time, is directly irresponsible. The agreement provides a prerequisite for the detection, prevention and investigation of terrorist activities and other serious crime, across borders. Three out of Schengen cooperation will weaken Norwegian police and border control. It will weaken well-established cooperation between police authorities across borders, and we will lose access to international databases and other tools that the police and the authorities rely on today. The Progress Party endorses the law as it exists, with the comments of the majority of its members, with temporary passport checks at ferry calls and ‘air or border’ if the security situation so warrants. Bringing together several regulations under a single law will clarify and provide a coherent, coherent and modernised regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e461	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their fine work. Of course, SV is concerned that we should have border controls and border controls on people who ensure the security of our borders and the special obligations we have for our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Finland and Russia, and also meet the needs we have to control cross-border crime. Like colleagues from the Judicial Committee, SV shares the intentions of this law. Nevertheless, I have a few comments. Border surveillance shall also provide for a framework of international law on which Norway is bound. We are concerned that border controls should not be used for immigration control and are measures that prevent asylum seekers from coming to Norway to seek asylum. It should therefore be without prejudice to the Convention obligations of Norway and prevent asylum seekers from accessing the Norwegian territory to apply for asylum. That is why we are somewhat critical of increased personal control in the Nordic countries. We have registered the Minister of Justice's statement that, if the security situation so indicates, temporary controls can be extended to air borders or to cross-border borders. SV is concerned that an extension of the personal control must be based on a submitted threat assessment from the PST and that it does not change to a normal state. There shall be checks on borders, but not in a way that prevents asylum seekers from coming to the country. SV has made a very concrete proposal in this legislative proposal. We are concerned that the border crossings – especially at our airports – should be effective, public friendly and responsive. We have therefore addressed the appropriateness of the fact that the police operate, without assistance, with personal checks and ID checks on passports at airports, especially at Gardermoen. This has sometimes led to crisis meetings — due to long queues — between police districts and the Police Directorate. It has also been pointed out by Avinor, who has called for better resources to be secured by the police. We need to ask questions about police controlling people's passports is an effective use of police resources at a time when we have a great need to allocate police resources, both geographically and thematically, for example. more for the investigation of sexual offences. This does not necessarily require a legislative change, because the police have occasion to do so already, but the police are doing this to a very small extent. That is why we want to include in this proposal the assessment of a more effective use of police resources at our airports. We are aware that it is usually not police-trained police, but civilly trained police officers who are in charge of passport control. This means that passport control does not necessarily bind police-trained and professional resources, but it still binds up police resources. That is why we have asked in the proposal that this be investigated to see if we can obtain a more effective and appropriate use of police resources in this type of passport control. With this I take up SV's proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e472	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e477	I am pleased that the Justice Committee has joined the government's proposal for a more comprehensive regulation on the control of the movement of persons across the borders of Norway. A new border law is important both for Norway's committed participation in Schengen cooperation and for providing us with a better legal basis for future development. As the Committee has also noted, the legislative proposal does not involve practical changes in the organisation of civil border controls under the responsibility of the police. Norway has a well-developed border control concept, and police personnel controls are carried out in close and close cooperation with other agencies, including under today’s legislation. However, a new border law that brings together, modernises and improves the legislation will help to strengthen the important border control work. The Borders Act shall not only anchor police responsibilities but also strengthen police cooperation and interaction with other agencies through clear and precise rules and boundaries. The rules contained in the legislative proposal should therefore provide a better basis for governance and organisation. Provisions are also made which specify more precisely than at present the framework for the exercise of border and entry and exit checks for civil purposes respectively. With a more timely law of up-to-date regulatory homes, we also have a better basis for further developing and adapting legislation to new national and international challenges and changing needs. International cooperation — particularly good and effective Schengen cooperation — is at the heart of today’s border control system. The temporary reintroduction of border controls is an exception to the basic principle of Schengen cooperation on the abolition of checks on persons at the internal Schengen border. Such a decision triggers a number of obligations on the police in terms of resource use and execution and in relation to the information needs of the public and other countries. The legislative proposal helps to clarify both the basis, decision-making authority and the legal effects of such reintroduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e488	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e504	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e513	Congratulations on the day to both women and men in the hall! It's March 8th, and this case has definitely some branches towards it. So we're making a proposal here to make it clear that it's illegal to share or publish images that are revealing, demeaning or offensive to the person or persons being depicted. This has not been a very difficult task, since the Committee has largely agreed with this intention. The Committee has agreed on the need to introduce a new law, but there has been some disagreement as to whether there should be increased penalties for this type of crime. I'll get back to that a little bit. Modern information technology, social media, etc. has led to an explosive increase in the dissemination of information and the sharing of images over the network. The issue and the debate about this shooting speed in Norway by the so-called Nora Dørk case, i.e. a profiled handball player. There were private photos of her that were leaked on the Internet after her phone was hacked. Sharing images of a private nature without consent is a relatively new form of crime, naturally since the technology that makes this possible is relatively new. But this type of crime has great consequences for those involved. The victims often feel that they are losing control, they don't know who knows, they don't know who has seen, and these images can pursue them for the rest of their lives. They never disappear. A single judicial committee has considered that there is a need for a new legal text on this subject. We agree that there is a need to combat this crime much better than is the case today. Today's laws and criminal provisions are not up-to-date with this type of crime. The legal text of the day is written at a different time and does not take into account that this is serious, with consequences for those affected. So we have criminal laws that can be used against image sharing without consent, but the challenge with these is that they do not clearly prohibit the sharing of images without consent. By putting in place a separate provision that is clear on this, we will be much more clearly shown that this is illegal, and knowledge will also be easier to disseminate. It is such that the intentions behind this are agreed by an overall committee. On the other hand, there has been some disagreement as to whether we should increase the penalties for this type of crime. The SV and the Workers' Party believe that increasing the penalties will send a strong signal that this is a serious crime that can cause significant damage. So we're disappointed that we probably don't get a majority for this today. A tightening of the penalties would be the most obvious expression that we as lawmakers want to hit hard on this type of crime. We believe that the government parties here give a quiet signal on March 8th, and the criminals who have scattered private pictures can rejoice inside and record that the Storting doesn't see very, very strict about this. And the girls who are hit by this are probably also disappointed. With this I present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e534	I want to start by congratulating all the ladies on the day. It's March 8th, the International Women's Day, a very good day to have this very debate on. The new Minister of Justice from the Progress Party has been noted early on as a Council of State with strong statements and quite big words. In spite of this, it seems that both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Minister of Justice have ended up in some kind of assessment and decision-making process. Only a few days ago, Hadia Tajik and the judicial fraction of the Labour Party proposed to prohibit child marriage. Child marriage - that's what the government will do! At present, the Council of State is responsible to the Committee for «exploring» the proposal. And when it comes to the debate about looking at the possibilities to increase the penalties, the Right Party and the Progress Party will ‘estimate’ it. Internet crime is increasing. This type is serious, and it is also actually an organized form of crime, which mainly affects women. That today we need to have a debate on whether it is necessary or whether one sees the need to increase the penalties for this kind of action, I find it hard to understand. It is also difficult to understand because today it is such that one can get a maximum sentence of two years to share illegal images or home pornographic videos, while the maximum penalty for threatening to do so is three years. Actually, I don't think my size is right. The Labour Party is not the party that often advocates a more severe punishment, but we do it when we think it's right, when we think it can work. I have been to a conference with the National Center of Competence on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, which had the theme of digital choice on the agenda, and which says that in these kinds of cases a severe punishment could be horrific and preventive. In addition, I think it's obvious that one must strengthen the work of public information and campaigns on these themes. I've met and talked to people who have experienced that images of their private character or videos from a former boyfriend are scattered deliberately and intentionally on websites that have the sole purpose of spreading. The fact that there will be a little bit of a fine in response also says that the penalty level, that is, what one actually gets in these cases, is too low. Those who share images or videos of others without consent should know that it has serious consequences. Nora Dark, the handball player, showed up and went to lead as a role model when she went out public with the stuff she said. But not all of them are Nora Dark, not all of them are doing the same thing. And I agree with Nora Dark, who today says in a lot of the country's newspapers that she is disappointed that the Storting does not decide today to increase the penalties for these types of actions. We know that private images, nude images and images of people who have sex can be very devastating when they are spread and shared on the Internet. This frame many young girls going to school every day and maybe wondering if they're all meeting, have seen these videos. If the government party had thought that the penalties for these types of acts would be increased, a vote would have been in favour of the proposal tabled by the Labour Party today. The Right Party and the Progress Party are doing this today, and it may also mean that they are not going to increase the penalties for these actions. I read in the media today that the Progress Party's Judicial Spokesman, Solveig Horne, says they're making their proposal because they're busy with a clean process. But if our proposal were to have multiple numbers, it would be a completely tidy and normal procedure. The Labour Party does not present proposals for a penalty framework in the Stortinget today. If our proposal had been given a number, the Ministry of Justice would be able to draw up proposals. It would have been on the phone if you had changed your promise, and then came back to the Storting. The point is that we think the Storting today, on March 8, should send a clear signal that the penalties for these types of cases need to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e553	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e558	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e563	The representative, Mr. Lene Vågslid, has thus taken up the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e568	This is legislation at its best and at its worst. I'll explain why. It is legislation at its best because it shows how we as legislators manage to hang out when the crime scene develops. Sharing nude images is a phenomenon that has arisen with new technology. Those of us who have had the very dubious pleasure of sitting and studying and chewing old case-law, may remember something called phone chicanoedom, a phenomenon that was completely new once in the 1920s or 1930s when people started calling and harassing people, preferably at night, 100, 200 maybe 300 times. When it was brought before the courts, there was no law that could judge these people. It was a new phenomenon that had to meet with legislation. Just like that, we're going to do in this case. Then we move on to why this is legislation on its most problematic. Why is this problematic? Well, because on this question, everyone in this room agrees. No one rejects a higher criminal framework in this respect. We want to turn this kind of behaviour down, but we have to do it in a neat way and in a way that is in line with the rules of the rule of law and democracy. Major changes in criminal law are best made by the Department. Nor do we draw any preliminary conclusions about the scope of the provision or the length of the criminal framework – although it is quite obvious that there are changes, and yes, that would mean that sanctions are also required to be used other than the existing legislation. The only thing we're really discussing here is small decimals. What are people reading out there? They read that the Storting votes down a proposal to make changes in this field, and rhetoric is used as if this is on the women's day, that the criminals are cheering, and the girls are still crying. What is this? What kind of rhetoric is this – in a matter where people agree, and where we want to show action? I repeat what I said in the previous debate: if anyone wonders why it is political contempt, look at this kind of discussion. It is today created a distorted picture of what really is the Storting's intention in the matter, and it is the hour – I must say – in a rather inconvenient way on women's day. You construct and make this a women's fight, where one part of the Storing is going to be on the wrong side, and the other part of the Storing is going to be on the right side. Everyone agrees. Everyone wants changes. All we want is to do it in a way that is in line with the traditions we have for legislation. I hope the discussion can further take on board that there is really no big, fundamental disagreement in the political, but a disagreement about the purely procedural.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e585	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e590	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e595	The representative Peter Frölich has thus taken up what the proposal Right and the Advance Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e601	It is an important proposal that is being adopted today. Although there are only nuances in the proposals under consideration, it is an important matter that is finally adopted. I would like to congratulate the proposers on addressing this debate. The Internet and social media have come to stay. That gives us all incredible opportunities. Nevertheless, we know that there are also major challenges, and today’s children and young people face a world that is not all prepared for. The Nora Dark case has got a lot of media attention, and we know from other media headlines that there are many young people out there, girls and boys, who have got their lives turned on their heads by the fact that sexual images and other images have been distributed without their consent, and it has had great consequences. We've been shocked over the last week that a young man killed himself after being threatened in the media. This is a problem we have to deal with, and we have to have a criminal law and a criminal framework that takes care of this. Illegal images, sharing them and threats we know, as I said, can have serious consequences for those who are being hit. I am very pleased that the government is very clear that, according to the Council of State's letter, we are now preparing a bill that makes it clear that it is illegal to share or publish images without consent, and see if we need to increase the penalties. But it's not just the law we need. We know that training in the safe use of digital media, so that children and young people can be helped to make reasonable choices in digital everyday life, is also central to the prevention of online abuse. Children and young people also need to learn to understand the consequences, and the most important support players are parents, kindergartens, schools, health services, recreational teachers, child protection and others who meet children and young people daily. The voluntary sector also plays an important and central role in participating and contributing to this work. I am pleased that the government in the escalation plan against violence and abuse so clearly underlined that they will provide online information on Internet-related abuse, and that they will also set up their own web courses for parents, children and professionals. Many parents believe that the children are safe at home. They tell the kids to wear helmets when they're going out and riding, and many people think the home is safe. But we know that some of the worst abuses can happen from the computer in the nursery. Therefore, it is important that parents engage in children and young people’s online everyday life. Finally, let me say that I am surprised that the Workers' Party and SV use such cheap rhetoric in this case and make it appear that the government parties are opposed to increasing the penalties. If the Labour Party had been so concerned about this, they could have promoted the bill itself today, and they could have said how many years they want to increase the penalties, but they haven't. So Lene Vågslid uses the issue of child marriage as an example. Yes, then the Workers' Party was able to promote its own bill – in one case the government had already sent out to the hearing, and the Workers' Party is aware of that coming to the Stortinget during the spring. The proposal under consideration today gives a clear and clear signal to the government to develop changes in the criminal law and to assess the need to increase the criminal framework. I can't say today if it's one, two, three or four years it's going to increase by. It's been a long time since the Workers' Party put in government and knew what these procedures are, but it's like the government is sending this out to the hearing and getting an idea of what kind of punishment this is going to have. I am sure that this is a work the Council of State takes very seriously, and that the Council of State will come back quickly to the Storting both with changes to the penal code and with an increase in the penalties for these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e622	First, I would like to thank the Labour Party for putting this matter on the agenda. There are very important issues that have been addressed in the Workers' Party's proposal, because with new societal developments new challenges are also emerging in the crime scene that we need to take seriously. Dissemination of offensive, degrading, revealing or sexualized images of someone who has not agreed to it is such a challenge – which has exploded as new technology develops, and perhaps especially smart phones, where Snapchat, Instagram and Facebook are just a keystroke away. The threshold for taking and sharing pictures has become alarmingly low, especially when it comes to such images as in this case, and most of the Nordics, especially young people, have access to both camera and large sharing networks through their phone, which most go around with at any time. Dispersion of one or more images of itself can be very offensive and can have major consequences for the victim. Once a picture is shared, it will most likely never disappear from the Internet. For example, the Supreme Court has: it is called a ‘lifelong infringement’ and it is also a serious problem that such images can be used for extortion or threats to the person depicted. Unlawful sharing of images is today affected by the provisions of the Criminal Code on reckless conduct and violation of privacy, but these are general provisions and it is not clear from the law that the sharing of such images as we are talking about here is prohibited. We agree with the proposers that there is a need to make it clear in the law that the sharing of these kinds of images is punishable and that there is a need to look at the design of criminal law adapted to this type of crime, which can act in different forms and with varying degrees of seriousness. Today it may be difficult for young people or others to get an overview of legislation and what is actually illegal and unacceptable. There is a need for case law and other legal sources in order to obtain an overview. We believe that clarification will remove doubt, send a clear signal and be in line with the evolution of this type of crime that has occurred in recent times. We are also very pleased that a joint committee agrees on this. However, the centre party is critical that we should decide to increase the penalty framework without taking into account any reservations. Increasing the penalties framework is serious, and there is a need for careful consideration. It is necessary to identify the need for how the current penal framework works in such cases and the impact of an increased criminal framework. That is why I am also pleased that the Committee is gathering on a proposal that sends a clear order to the government that this type of crime should be clarified in the criminal law, and that an increase in the criminal framework should also be considered, but this must be done after further review. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a pity that the debate on the outside is now turning against the fact that this is a loss. Because I feel that this is a great victory. We're standing here on Women's Day March 8th, and we're sending out a clear signal from an overall Committee on Justice and an almost total increase that sharing degrading, offensive, sexualized images of others is illegal and it's going to be punished. And the story that's told in the media from the proposers and SV now, doesn't help send the signal that we're actually doing from Stortinget. It helps to create uncertainty about what will be the legal status of the decision taken by Stortinget today. I hope that the proposers – also externally – will help to show that the Storting is taking this type of crime seriously and that this will be followed up by the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e647	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e652	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e657	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl then drew up the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e662	There is every reason to commend the proposers for including a privacy theme that has recently received considerable attention, but which unfortunately is not a new phenomenon. However, the illegal publication of private images without the consent of the image has recently increased in size in such a way that it makes it a much larger problem than a relationship between a limited number of parties. It's becoming a societal problem, a challenge for our entire voice culture. State-funded measures, such as the website slutmeg.no, have been of great help to many, but are far from enough to handle the flood of infringing images that are spread daily over the web and that help to destroy people's lives. There may be every reason why the question is the subject of a State-owned investigation. Moreover, it is very timely for the proposal to be debated today, since it is 8 March and, unfortunately, the case is largely about women's violations. Since 1995, the right to an own image has been legally regulated primarily by Section 45c of the Intellectual Property Act, i.e. not by criminal law, as the proposal for a representative and the establishment of the committee may give an impression. In an international context, the data protection clause of the copyright law is a lex specialis, a particular case which has to do with the termination of the previous photo law. It's a Norwegian rarity in many ways. The main provision of the paragraph is that all the publication of photographs which depict a person is not permitted unless consent is given. Of course, this also applies to images in social media, although relatively few care about this. However, the exemption provided for in the legal text makes it possible to publish images in journalistic contexts, such as: by imposing requirements on the relevant and public interest of the photographs. The point of referring to this is to point out that the person who is looking for photolegal provisions in the criminal law, in many ways, is looking at the wrong place. I therefore also ask questions about the Ministry's claim that we do not have legal provisions such as "capture all situations in which images of this nature are shared without the consent of the person or persons depicted". This can be seen quite explicitly in § 45c of the copyright law. As I read it, the proposers in many ways want a completely new photo legislation. Of course, it needs to be properly investigated, where we do not conclude in advance with regard to the rigours. I assume that the intentions of the members of the Committee from the SV and the Workers' Party have been to focus on obvious violations of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights, the right to privacy. In particular, reference is made to so-called revenge porn, i.e. situations where pornographic images have been published by vengeful ex-partners. This is a concern I share with the proposers. However, there are also other forms of privacy offences that it is obvious that it is necessary to consider when assessing criminal law provisions first. For example, publication of infringing photographs of children and dead persons can be mentioned. Proposalers are also explicit in their call for the criminal framework to be increased. I'm not sure that this is necessarily the solution to the challenges, even though it'll most likely end up with it. It's e.g. necessary to remember that, as far as I know for the last 70 years, it has never been sentenced to imprisonment for violation of the penal code § 267, i.e. the former penal law of 1902 § 390, despite the fact that the criminal framework has been clear enough. In the old penal code, it was of three months imprisonment, in the new one from 2005 to two and one year imprisonment, respectively, according to §§ 266 and 267. In other words, there is little evidence to suggest that the criminal penalties themselves are decisive in such cases, but rather in how the police and prosecution authorities react in the case. I am going to recommend the Left Group to vote in favour of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, where the government is asked to promote a bill on a separate provision in the criminal law that regulates the subject in question, without concluding with regard to the criminal framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e679	Let me start by thanking the proposers for an important proposal. This is a good contribution to making clear what actions we as a society think are completely unacceptable. The smartphone makes things possible that were previously not possible. He has made it possible to make it more efficient, bring us closer to each other and collect a lot of information. But for many, unfortunately too many, the new technology has also become an enemy. The home's four walls are no longer the safest place for children and young people, because with the help of the smartphone, attackers also come all the way into the nursery, without having to be there physically. It's women's day today. In many ways it is a little demanding that we actually have to deal with a matter like this, because as long as young people and women experience violence and violence, we will never be able to achieve full equality and equality. So we have to do more to protect our kids and our women. The sharing of intimate images of people who have not given consent is offensive and degrading to those who owe it. Police statistics show that this is an increasing problem. The consequences for the frames are large and can follow them for a long time. Last week, Consumer Inspectors at the NRK had a report on adults using apps designed for young people to come in contact with young people. It's trembling to hear what crops can expose innocent kids to. The children's environment has come up with two reports of sexual abuses against children and youth this week. Here they come with seven recommendations to fight against the choice and abuse, and not least to help those who have been subjected to it. I thought the recommendations were very good, and I hope the government will listen to them. They have the opportunity to do so in connection with the escalation plan against violence and abuse against children for whom the Christian People's Party was passed in 2015. The sharing of demeaning and offensive images is punishable today, but the Christian People's Party agrees that an interpretation of the law is in place, and that therefore we should be able to prevent this crime and strengthen the legal certainty of the individual. Hence, the Christian People's Party will vote for the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e696	Let me first say that I share the Committee's view on how serious it is to spread offensive images without the consent of the person depicted. This can have major consequences for the person concerned, and when spreading on the web, the images never disappear. Almost everyone today has a mobile phone with a camera in their pocket, and especially young people are at risk of being caught in unfortunate situations or in connection with abuse. The mobile phone also allows such images to spread easily. This makes today’s young people vulnerable in a completely different way from previous generations, who could also make mistakes or be subjected to abuse, but where this was not documented and disseminated. We have seen that several have been punished for spreading offensive and intimate pictures and films without consent. In some cases, there has been a conviction for privacy impairments and reckless behaviour. When the Supreme Court in 2016 dealt with the so-called snapchat case and imposed the penalty for sharing intimate images without consent to the fennel for four months, it was the whole of the ruling that was used. However, there are several reasons why it can be used to change the criminal law so that it clearly affects this type of act. Firstly, the problem seems to be becoming more and more topical, and it affects more and more people. Secondly, a clear and clear criminal code can have a preventative effect. It could also make it easier for those who work to prevent such actions. And as I mentioned in my letter to the Committee, it is also uncertain whether the current provisions actually affect all the situations that should be prohibited. For example, criminal penalties against privacy violations and against reckless behaviour are primarily designed in view of other types of infringement, and some cases of sharing of infringing images may thus fall outside. I note that all the members of the committee want the government to propose a legislative change, but there seems to be shared opinions on the process further. I understand that some people may be impatient after making changes to the law, and for my own part I can assure you that I will make sure that this can happen as soon as possible. But I warn against hasty, for example. by failing to examine the draft law in more detail, as some members of the Committee appear to be addressing it. In order to achieve the objective of a legislative amendment, it must clarify which cases are affected and it should affect all cases that should be affected. I am therefore concerned that a change in the law must be well professionally elaborated and that the proposal must be sent to a public hearing, including. the prosecution authorities, the victims and civil society are allowed to speak before the government returns with a bill to the Stortinget. There are several questions to be taken into consideration. For example, one should consider whether criminal liability should also affect those who take photos in an offensive situation, not only those who share such images. Secondly, we must look at insults. Could it be a burden to know that many people are in possession of offensive images of insults, even though they may not share it further? Should they be required to be deleted? Furthermore, criminal liability must be effective. It is probably not appropriate to limit a change in the law to the sharing of images only. Film recording and audio recording should probably also be included. I look forward to returning to Stortinget with a bill when the department has conducted an investigation and consultation in the usual way. But I would already like to thank the Committee for putting this important matter on the agenda. In the department, we are doing well to create this foundation that will help us get a new piece of legislation in place in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e718	My question to the Council of State is quite brief. Does the Council of State think it's right that a person can get a higher sentence to trust someone to share an image than one can get if one actually does?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e724	I believe it is such a fact that we need to look at this law, propose amendments and send them to the hearing, and also help other parties to make representations on where there is a loophole in the legislation. I want to say that this is something that takes everyone, both the young people who are in a situation where they can be exposed to this – it's young people and children who are afraid to shower at school for fear of being photographed and exposed to these things – and parents. I myself have children who are gradually beginning to come at this age, and it's clear that we're thinking about this, and I'm concerned that we're going to put in place a code that protects our children in the best possible way. So I can assure you that this will be highly prioritised, and that we are doing this work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e729	Then is my next question: What is in the Labour Party proposal that prevents the Council of State from running the ordinary process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e734	We're going to run a very common process that follows up the need for change in this area. So it's the Storting that now decides what you're voting for, but what I'm registering is that everyone agrees that we're going to have changes in this area. That is why I agree with those who say that it looks very strange in the media, that it seems that not everyone in this Chamber shares the need and desire to change the legislation to the best of the young people affected by this. It will necessarily take some time, because it will have to be consulted, consider the changes to be made, and give all those out there who see that there are gaps in the legislation, the opportunity to make representations to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e741	But I did not get an answer to my question, for what is it in the proposal from the Labour Party that prevents the government, the government, from sending the case to the hearing, coming back to the Stortinget? There is nothing in the Workers' Party's proposal that prevents the ordinary course of action. If the council thinks it is, I want an answer as to what it means to prevent the ordinary process. The only difference – and there is a significant difference – is that we say we want to increase the frame, and then it becomes a normal procedure. But I want to right the answer from the government council: what's the big difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e746	So we want to follow up the decisions that Stortinget takes, and I record that the Workers' Party does not get a majority for its proposal here. We have to look at the penalties – I think it is quite natural that we should do so – if they need to be increased. But we also need to look at the level of punishment that is today. Is it used as it should? These are normal investigations which must be carried out and carried out in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e751	I hear what the council says, but I don't get an answer to the question. Today there are three proposals on the subject. The centre party signals that they subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party. They say we need a normal process. Then I try again: What is it in the proposal from the Labour Party that prevents a very common process, where the matter is being heard, where the Council of State comes up with proposals for the Stortingen to the penal framework? What is hindering this in our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e756	We follow up on what is adopted in the Stortinget, and it is up to the Labour Party's proposal not to be adopted. So we can't follow it up just as it is. But we want to follow up on the intention of that, we want to look at the level of punishment, we want to look at the rules that you in the Workers' Party are engaged in, and the holes that you are committed to covering. So it will be done – for the benefit of those who are now exposed to these situations. But I record that you make a much bigger case out of this than it should be. It should have been said that we all in this room agree that we should make changes to the law that meet the need. We're all in this room concerned that we're going to have a penalty level that is so that it's in line with what's the legal opinion out there. I can see that everyone who's been on the pulpit has said, and so do we. I also record that there is no indication of how much these penalties should be increased, and that is well because it needs to be investigated – and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e765	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e772	In recent times, we have repeatedly seen things in the media that show that people, like children and young people, are being subjected to blackmailing of money or sexual acts over the Internet. The fear of intimate images spreading to friends, family and the outside world is great. Images and information disseminated online can circulate and exist for a long time. We also see time and time again that the fear of this leads to people being subjected to repeated abuses or a demand for payment of money. This kind of crime can hit everyone. It doesn't matter if you're young or old, man or woman. Nevertheless, we see particularly vulnerable people, such as children and young people, being delayed. Women are also particularly vulnerable here, as in other acts of violence and abuse. Today is the International Women's Day. March 8th will this year be marked by the Metoo campaign and the vulnerability of women who are subjected to violence and abuse. Sharing images on the Internet is part of this. Freedom is deprived of the women who get pictures of themselves shared on the Internet. The action will have consequences for a long time. As I understood the representative Frølich from the Right, he warned against making this a women's fight. To that I would say, it's part of the women's fight; it's women's fight. We feel a great need for public information and for working against this type of crime, both to secure the individual and to give a clear message to those who practice or consider the practice of such unlawful acts. The Internet has the same rules as the rest of society. What violates the law on the street also violates the law from the sofa and over the internet. The Labour Party has therefore promoted this proposal for a representative, which clarifies the seriousness of the abuse and extortion of unlawfully divided images. The Labour Party clearly states and believes that the law must also reflect this attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e791	It is an important matter for us that we now facilitate a clarification that it is illegal to publish pictures, such as: nude images. It's important to us. This is an example of a crime that has brought about technological progress, and it is now absolutely necessary that we go into and underline that these are criminal acts, in fact so serious criminal acts that changes in criminal law should also be assessed. ‘Slap signal’, says Petter Eide of SV, and the Workers’ Party is attached. Here they twist and turn words to make it look like they're against this -- it's actually not okay. Both the Council of State Listhaug and the representative Frølich were very clear that this is a matter of disagreement about the process. We actually want an investigation of this. The Labour Party has been very clear that they actually don't want an investigation, which will be a perfectly normal process when you're going to make a law, such an important law, like this. And then, on March 8, you get to go that far to score cheap points on us, I think it's disappointing. Here we all agree, and as has been said earlier here by the Central Party Emilie Enger Mehl, we should have been able to stand together today, on March 8th, and signal that here we're going to get a law change. We should have done that. It wasn't like that, but I hope we can manage to put out the fire that is unnecessarily lit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e800	We're not the ones that light up this fire or create the confusion here. It shows the line change instead. I am not given an answer to my question about what causes the proposal from the Labour Party and SV to not lead to a normal procedure. I went to Stortinget while we were in government. Sending in response that one will sort something out can mean so many things. It could mean that one will spend quite a long time because one has a lot of other things to do with, or that one does not dare to commit. It's an honest thing. What we're doing is we're making a proposal to send a clear signal about what the government actually says. I hear more people say that they want to tighten up the punishment, that they want more severe punishment, in line with people's perception of justice. Then it's hard to understand why either we don't support our proposal. Or – a little advice: The proposal from the Right and the Advance Party should at least contain the word ‘increase’ rather than ‘change’. There is an order from Stortinget. And to the representative Peter Frölich, even though he is good at legal matters: it is not that the Stortinget – the legislators – should not have a point of view at criminal or criminal level. In that case, there's something completely new. What I'm happy about, and as there's agreement, is that we want to clarify the law and come with a separate rule. I thought that was very good. I'm glad that we've had an impact on that, because in itself I think I'm very important. The things we talk about here, many frames. Nine out of ten victims of so-called revenge porn are women. So – again to the representative Frölich – we don't make this a women's fight. It's a women's fight. It would have been if this debate had been 9 or 10 March as well. But I understand that there can often be a bit of a twist for representatives from the Right to understand. 68 pst. Of those who are victims of rape, between 18 and 30 years of age, 27 p.p. is between 18 and 22 years of age. The consequences of these girls are huge. I don't doubt that we're any of it. I hear a committee that expresses the same kind of concern, and that sees the same problem, but that with respect to not reporting lands on the same proposal. I mean, if one of you here in the hall thinks that the punishment frame should be increased, or at least that there should be a match between the trudging and the sharing, then one should be able to say it. The working party shall not propose to start working in whole new ways in the department. Obviously, it has to be done properly. That can be done with our proposal. Therefore, I think there are quite other reasons why one does not support our proposal today, which one should have done to get involved in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e817	Of course, it is not that higher penalties are always the answer when we want unwanted behaviour to come to life. As far as I am aware of the Labour Party's judicial policy, this is entirely in line with what I believe the representative Wagslid also believes. I think it is necessary to go round to get a proper investigation before we conclude on the criminal framework. I thank the Minister of Justice for his approach to this matter. It's excellent, and we're now seeing the outlines of a new law, which it's most necessary to get hold of. In conclusion, I would like to comment on a statement by the handball player Nora Mørk, who has been at the centre of this matter in many ways after she was subjected to very offensive experiences when pictures of her were published online. I record that in an interview with VG today she has pushed for disappointment that the Workers' Party's proposal will not have a majority in this case. I don't think that's the basis for that disappointment. Let there be no doubt that the Left, who has for a long time stood in front of us to bring this kind of criminal behaviour to life, will continue to do so. We will take an active part in updating the provisions of the penal code in line with technological developments. But law and justice are a high-threshold offer, whether we like it or not. I believe that this must be the first reason to address a low-threshold offer to people who have a daily online crash, and this is not about high-profile handball players. The left was passed through the state budget for increased appropriations for deletemeg.no, or deleteme now, as should be stated. I hope that in the future there will be room in the state budget for the sustainable and predictable financing of this low-threshold offer, and consider it as important as increased penalties. On top of that, this type of legislation is about photographic regulations that also have something to do with freedom of expression. These are the conditions of journalism, and I record that in this committee setting the press organisations have not been consulted. There is also a reason why the legislative proposal – or the procedure to be initiated now – has to be sent out to a wide-ranging consultation in the press organisations, such as the European Commission. Editors' Association and Norwegian Press Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e830	Now we have seen a debate where the Workers' Party and SV have interpreted the whole proposal in their worldview. The last thing they did was they interpreted my post in the worst possible way and in their worldview. They thought I was talking about this not a women's fight. Of course it's a woman's fight. That's not what I said, either. What I said, and warned against, was to make this a women's fight where you have a good side and a bad side. How can I say that? Well, because the rhetoric used here is just like that. Just hear how some representatives say it's hard for the Right on Women's Day to understand that this is a women's fight. The Committee notes that the Right Party and the Advance Party are ‘brake blocks’ in the women’s struggle, etc. – on a matter where everyone agrees! In a matter where everyone agrees, you should kind of have some kind of evil and good side on such a question. In this debate it has also been claimed that everyone really wants an investigation and a tidy process etc., but I think we have to get the fasit: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left do not consider this proposal to be necessary’. This shows a completely different and fundamentally different approach to how we treat criminal law in Norway. We could make a huge point out of it and thought that these parties don't understand constitutional practices, etc., but I really don't think there's any sense in doing that. I interpret this as that we all agree, and that we are now discussing in a way that people out there are tired of. Politicians argue about commas, etc., and draw each other's intentions into doubt, etc. We agree on this matter. That should be the message today. I understand that people are starting to get tired, if they had understood how so small and «miniaturistic» differences can be inflated to the nearest existential struggles about who is on the good side, and who is on the evil side of women's day, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e842	It's been an interesting debate because, as I said instead, I feel that everyone agrees, but you're trying to create a division that doesn't really exist. Because I also feel that the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party for which it is going to become a majority is entirely in line with what the Labour Party has proposed, but that it is a slightly more moderate version, which requires investigation. And I think that's quite in place. There is a big difference between saying, in a proposal to end up in a new legal provision, that it is considered that there is no need for an investigation, that there is no need to consider changing the criminal framework, and that there is a need to consider changing the criminal framework. For me, there has been a significant difference. Increased penalties are not always the answer, and in the work on such a legal provision as the one we are going to ask for today, there is a great deal that needs to be investigated – as the Minister of Justice said. There may be many cases which should be affected by such a provision, which is not included in the proposal today. There may be pictures, movies, audio recordings and different degrees of seriousness. When it comes to the illegal sharing of images, you can imagine everything from a situation where there is a person who is a child himself, who shares one image of another at Snapchat, to adults who run with organized sharing of infringing images. There's a lot of nuances, and I think it makes us need a good investigation before we adopt a new law. When it comes to the establishment of a criminal framework, I believe in principle that it is important, even in this case, to investigate and carefully assess what is an appropriate criminal framework. How does the punishment we have today affect us? What are we going to change? What aren't we going to change? Maybe there should be different penalties for different types of sharing and dissemination. This is something I experience that we do not have the answer to today, and that is why I think it is better to support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party. But I still think of this as a victory, and I think everyone should communicate it out. I also feel that the Workers' Party could today say: this is a victory, we agreed with Stortinget to lay down stricter legislation for this type of crime. When they don't choose to do that, I think it's a very bad thing, because it creates a very wrong picture of the Greatness's will in opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e853	The representative, Lene Wagslid, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e858	I can't say that the Labour Party gets it when we don't. It's that simple. I think we're making this very difficult, but I only have one minute, so I'm going to try to be short. If that's the case that we're so few, then you get to put it like this. It's not what we stand here and say that means something to the seventh and last – that's what we decide. So if we don't suggest raising the frame, that's not what we're saying. It's perfectly legitimate to think that you can't say that right now. I have nothing against it, but I think we should send a clear signal that we want to increase the penalties. To the vote, I understand that our proposal is not going to have multiples. I'm sorry. Subsidiary, the Labour Party will support the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, for something must be settled in this matter. So I hope we can come back to this debate. We're going to discuss it several times. It's a saying that we get a clarification of criminal law. That's very good. However, we must not pretend that it has no meaning with an increase in penalties – because it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e870	After hearing the debate, I am very pleased that there is a very broad consensus that we should do something about it. I am also left with the impression that the representative Vågslid does not want to hear what is being said. I was very clear that this is becoming a priority. I am very clear that the holes in the law must be sealed. I also do not understand the representative Wagschlid when she says that she wants a normal procedure, because the comments on the matter state that the Workers' Party and SV believe that this proposal does not need to be investigated. That's the question, for example. on penalties: What are the penalties? If you don't need an investigation, you should be able to say what that proposal would mean. The online challenges are serious for young girls, but we should not forget the boys either. Last week, Kripos went out and briefed on a matter of a young man who killed himself because he experienced things online. So this is something that, of course, is especially serious for girls, but we should not underestimate that this is a challenge for many boys as well. Finally, I would like to sum up that we do not need an investigation into whether we are going to have changes in the law. We need changes in laws, but the investigation is about what changes in laws we need to close the gaps that we all agree to close.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e881	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e899	Tax havens, tax evasions and hidden ownership have major consequences at both national and local level. Those who lose most are the poorest country in the world. Organisational calculations Tax Justice Network show that developing countries are losing more than 1,200 billion. kr annually as a result of illegal capital flight. It may be related to corruption and crime, but most of it is owed to large international companies that cheat developing countries for money. These are huge sums. This undermines economic growth and encourages poor countries to remain poor. If the money had remained in the country and been taxed, they could have certain means a sore need for both school, hospital and health. Furthermore, it is calculated that 30 pst. of all financial assets in Africa are hidden in tax havens. This costs African countries 14 billion. dollars a year in lost tax income. This is enough money to pay both for health measures that could have scared the lives of six million children, and enough to add enough teachers to give all African children schooling. That gives you a perspective. The result of this capital flight is that ordinary people have to take a larger part of the bill. Many developing countries have weak states with poorly functioning tax regimes. Therefore, they tend to be weak in negotiations with multinational companies or rich countries about tax agreements. The result is often that VAT on goods and services is a proportionately higher proportion of the country’s tax revenue. This type of taxing frames, of course, the poorest countries the hardest. In recent years, taxes as part of gross national income have increased in low income countries, but there is still a large difference between the average of 35 pst. in OECD countries and 14 pst. in low-income countries. Openness in the international financial system is a key to slowing down the flow of capital, including: by requiring multinational companies to be open about key figures in each country in which they operate and about the actual owners of the companies. In order to halt the flow of capital and thus contribute to increasing the revenues of developing countries, the international community needs to develop some of the tax elements that take into account the interests of developing countries, and developing countries need to be supported in strengthening their own tax systems. Better and fairer international tax laws are also required from Norwegian businesses. Serious companies such as Statoil and Telenor have reported country by country for a number of years themselves and want measures to secure competition on equal terms. Furthermore, research shows that taxes themselves are not decisive for Norwegian companies’ investment decisions. There is reason to believe that other factors, such as good infrastructure, governance, corruption and good governance, are even more important. Norway’s commitment to industrial development through development policy should therefore be seen in the context of the work on taxation and capital flow. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway can and should play a central role in fighting illegal capital flows and tax evasion. In 2015, the United Nations Member States became involved in an ambitious plan to eliminate poverty, reduce inequality and ensure basic services for all – the so-called sustainability targets. But now, two years later, and with only 13 years left by 2030, the world is far away from these goals. The final document of last year’s follow-up meeting on financing for development in the United Nations states the following: The current global trajectory will not deliver the goal of power in all its forms and dimensions by 2030. This is largely due to a lack of funding, but also to a lack of political will to implement the national and international actions that one knows how to do — and which will lead to more money for developing countries. The world now needs ambitious leaders to lead. Norway has invested heavily in education and health in the last few years – it is very good. Assistance is absolutely necessary to achieve the load measurement No. 3 and 4 on health and education. At the same time, the Norwegian - supported International Commission for Education shows that 97 pst. the financing of education must come from the countries themselves. But there is little to increase the proportion of the national budget for health and education if the budget is too small. Through assistance and policy, Norway and other donor countries can support developing countries both in increasing their national budgets and in using the budget more effectively for health and education. Norway is leading the UN negotiations on financing development in Addis Ababa and ensuring that all the UN member states became a few on this very agenda. This role should not be underestimated. Rather, this gives Norway an extra responsibility and a golden opportunity to carry out the multilateral, normative and political work ahead. The UN Secretary-General has recently announced that he will hold a new summit in 2018. Norway has all the means to play a central and constructive role. To sum up: capital flight, weak tax systems and tax evasion are some of the greatest challenges of our time Norway can and should contribute even more strongly both through our voice internationally and through our own priorities in development policy Let me briefly mention four ways the Christian People's Party of my Norway should intensify the efforts on: The first is through increased tax-related assistance. Norway should contribute more to the Addis Tax Initiative. Norway has committed itself to double the support for fiscal assistance of 130 million. SEK in 2015 to SEK 260 million. in 2020. In 2017, this type of aid was only EUR 50 million. kr. Some countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has said that they will give more than the international commitment. Norway should also aim to do this. Support should be given both to bilateral and multilateral initiatives and to research and civil society. As part of this, the ‘Tax for Development’ programme should be strengthened significantly. Using assistance to catalyse public revenues is good and effective assistance. One aid krone may trigger 10 new kronor of tax revenue. However, only 0.13 pst. of Norwegian aid and 0,3 pst. of international assistance in 2015 to strengthen tax systems in developing countries. In Norway, in addition, this assistance has been significantly reduced in the last two years. There's a development that needs to turn around now. The second point is to be a driver internationally. Tematics must be raised in speech and meeting, and Norway must give priority to being present at a high level in the international forums where tax is discussed. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister of Development to take the initiative of an international meeting or a conference focusing on just taxation and development. This can be done in cooperation with other donor countries with similar priorities, such as the United Kingdom or Germany. Of course, cooperation countries in the south, which can contribute to concrete experience, should also be part of such an initiative. Furthermore, Norway should consider providing financial support to the United Nations Expert Committee on Taxation. Work within the OECD is important, but cannot be one-off. Work also needs a global anchoring. My third point follows naturally: we need to ensure the right skills and enough staffing in this field both in the U.D., Norad and in the embassy. In this context, it would be natural to seek close cooperation with the tax administration, which can contribute to its peak competence. The fourth, and I am sure that the Council of State is aware, is that Norway's tax efforts must be consistent. For example, efforts in the development field must be linked to what the Ministry of Finance does in OECD context and with national rules. Here, Norway should follow the recommendations of the Capital Flows Commission to liquidate Norfund’s practice of investing through tax havens. In particular, Norway should also address other areas of development policy, such as: education and health, contribute to the lifting of taxes and the possibility of national resource mobilisation. It is important here that this is not just about developing countries' responsibilities and opportunities to increase their own budgets. Norway should also pay particular attention here to the responsibility and opportunities of the donor country to slow down the illegal flow of capital. I look forward to addressing our new, competent development minister and his thoughts about such an important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e957	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for raising this important debate. It is also appropriate that we discuss this today, on the International Women's Day. Women are more directly affected than men by the country’s ability to organise good services, and research shows that women are the most vulnerable to illegal capital flight and corruption. Unfortunately, it is also true that women in developing countries often have fewer opportunities to influence the regime in their country. The government is of the same opinion as the interpellant. Norway is and must be a driver for developing countries to put in place good tax systems and increase their efforts against corruption and illegal capital flows. Massive resources are needed to achieve sustainability goals, and illegal capital flight and corruption are now a major obstacle to our reaching goals. But aid alone could only be a small part of the solution. In African countries, tax revenue, even at today's low level, amounts to ten times as much as aid. National resource mobilisation is crucial for achieving sustainability targets by 2030. In the field of education, as much as 97 pst. Of the resources come from the countries themselves, while assistance from Norway and other countries only amounts to 3pst. But in order for a country to be able to invest in, for example, education, it must have income from taxes. In order to maintain a minimum of basic services for the population, the tax access should be at least 15 pst. of gross domestic product. Several believe that the proportion must be even higher – up to 25 pst. – if we are to be able to develop good infrastructure and provide good education, health and safety to everyone. The tax entrance is now below 15 pst. in 30 of the 75 poorest countries in the world. By comparison, the average OECD country is above 35 pst. Developing countries lose up to 10 pst. of gross domestic product in government income. In many cases, these revenues could have contributed to the achievement of sustainability objectives, and not least to the benefit of the population through schools, hospitals and jobs. Increased tax access and thereby increased tax base are important, but not sufficient to achieve the sustainability objectives. Value creation must also increase. This is why one of the main priorities of the government is to improve the conditions for industrial development and investment in developing countries, because it is the private sector that needs to create millions of new jobs every year. The World Bank’s report on investment willingness for 2017-2018, which the interpellant has clearly also read, shows that the main prerequisites for the decision to invest are: political stability security a non-corruptionary and predictable steering system; a functioning State of law; a large market macro-economic stability a stable exchange rate; skilled labour force; Good infrastructure In other words, if developing countries are to compete in global competition for investment and business start-ups, they have to work on a broad front, and the tax system is one of several important elements in this. Fuzzy and bureaucratic tax systems hamper investment. Corruption, unfair tax incentives and illegal capital flows create unfree markets. It becomes expensive and risky for businesses and international investors. The threshold for entering increases. In short, fair and predictable tax systems are good for investment and value creation. Increased tax access up to a certain level has been associated in most countries with reduced corruption and higher economic growth, which in turn stimulates increased investment. But taxation is more than money and investment. It's politics. Tax collection can contribute to increased backwardness and efficiency, especially if it is clearly linked to the provision of services to the population. Studies from sub-Saharan Africa show that paying taxes creates increased political involvement in the population. Politicians are increasingly held accountable. Norway organised the financing of the development process leading to the Addis Tax Initiative, to which the interpellant refers. The initiative is based on three pillars: firstly, rich countries commit themselves to double tax-related assistance from 2015 levels by 2020. Secondly, developing countries undertake to work for good tax systems. Thirdly, all work for a coherent policy to mobilise national resources. Let there be no doubt: Norway is under these obligations. In 2018, therefore, we are increasing efforts in this area by around 90 million. And we're going to achieve the goal of spending at least 268 million dollars. DKK for tax-related assistance by 2020. It is true, as the interpellant says, that Norway’s contribution to tax-related assistance has declined in the last two years. This is due, inter alia, to: a change in annual payments to the three countries where Norway has had significant tax assistance – Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique – and the conclusion of several agreements in Norad in the period 2015–2017. The world's country is not on track to achieve its sustainability goals. Support for national resource mobilisation remains too low. In 2015, tax-related assistance amounted to only 0.13 pst. of all assistance at international level. In addition, many countries are affected by large financial leakages through poorly functioning tax systems, extensive corruption and illegal capital flows. The calculations vary, but the illegal capital flow from developing countries may amount to as much as 1000 billion. dollars a year. This is in that case seven times as much as the OECD countries provide assistance this year. Rightly, this has been called the other side of the development problem. Illegal capital flows are the direct depletion of national resources. We need a broad international coalition to strengthen taxation and fight corruption and illegal capital flows. We need to further develop international framework conditions and take binding measures to bind both countries and businesses to maximum transparency and zero tolerance for corruption. Norway shall be an asset driver in this field. Therefore, the government's escalation plan consists of four main initiatives. Firstly, in close cooperation with the tax administration, we will increase bilateral cooperation for better tax administrations. We will establish new technical cooperation programmes and increase efforts in already established technical cooperation. Secondly, we want to strengthen the work through international organisations. We will participate in the World Bank's global tax programme and in the work of the IMF. At the same time, we will support the OECD in including developing countries in the work on better international tax standards. We support the work of the United Nations and follow up conventions against corruption. Norway has, as the interpellant is probably familiar with, been the driving force behind two key resolutions on large-scale corruption and illegal capital flows. Thirdly, we will support research, business and civil society. We will stimulate targeted research into tax-related assistance and international tax relations. We continue to support the U4 Resource Centre against corruption in Bergen, which contributes with knowledge and makes it globally available. We will continue to cooperate through the corruption-hunting network to support investigators from the police and prosecution authorities in the detection, investigation and prosecution of corruption. We will cooperate with local and international businesses to ensure that our tax efforts contribute to growth and investment. Civil society plays a vital role in the fight against corruption, capital flight and work for better tax systems, and we will work closely together to ensure the best possible results of our assistance. According to the OECD, 1 DKK invested in tax assistance provides extra 50 to 100 DKK in tax revenue. This underlines the cost-effectiveness of tax-related assistance. Norway has similar experiences from the cooperation with Zambia and Tanzania. At the same time, we must be realistic. In many of our cooperating countries, corruption is widespread. The antidotes are strong. In some developing countries, there is, in fact, freedom of punishment for gross corruption, money laundering and tax evasion. The challenge is so complex that all actors and all countries must work together if we are to overcome illegal capital. Norway can contribute with technical assistance and capacity building, but without political will to make good choices, results will be lacking. National ownership of developing countries is also needed in this area. Therefore, our fourth main effort will be to strengthen political dialogue with the authorities of developing countries. We will cooperate with those who have put tax issues and measures against corruption and illegal capital movements on their own political agenda. The African Union has put tax issues and the fight against corruption at the top in its plan for inclusive development. We need to support such initiatives. We know that economic growth and increased government income do not automatically lead to a reduction in poverty and less inequality. We must therefore also monitor how the increased revenues are used. If governments use revenues for benefits, public services and job creation, sustainability targets will be within reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1031	I want to thank the Council of State for the good answer he gives on this interpellation. I also thought it was an offensive answer. I want to mention several things. I'm not thinking at least about the initiatives I'm going to come back to, but also the problem understanding here. The fact that a country, a system, has a tax income as low as between 13 and 15 p.m., can all of us as sitting in the Norwegian National Assembly understand is demanding, when we know that the average in the OECD is 35 p.m. It's also obvious. I am pleased with the signal being given that the Addis Tax Initiative will be followed up on all parts, not least what is going on. It's important. So I challenge especially the decline in tax-related assistance. There I thought we had a good explanation. Our tax assistance has gone down to our countries of cooperation. So I think the explanation that we get because it's gone down, gives us a good answer. But what I might challenge the Council of State is what he's now thinking about in the future. Because it seems something random that he's gone down. What I hope we can say is that tax-related assistance should be something we invest in. What I mean is naturally based on the four initiatives that the Council of State refers to here, and that I fully support – all four. Just using and developing professional cooperation with the tax administration and helping to strengthen it, working internationally – the IMF, the OECD – that we get a width in this, which was the second point from the Council of State, is completely in line with what I want. I'm also glad that the Council of State mentions the UN especially when it comes to that work. The third point of the Council of State is research, business and not least civil society. It is easy to underestimate that civil society also plays a very important role in this area. I also share the ambition of the Council of State to strengthen political dialogue. We know that assistance is demanding, because we are forced to ensure a national ownership in order to bring about a real change. So I want to thank you for the good answer. The challenge is to turn these words in the Norwegian National Assembly into a reality in development. That's our common challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1048	Thanks again to the interpellant. I think there is a broad political consensus that this should be a priority area for Norway in our development effort. As the interpellant is well known, we have established the Knowledge Bank in Norad, where the ‘Tax for Development’ programme is central, which is just about the transfer of competences in important areas. We also have a national audit that is active in several countries and provides assistance, because these things are related. For example, I can. mention: I just came home from Nepal, today early, and our assistance has helped to create a unified system of accounts for the state, a reduction from 14,000 accounts in the state to a manageable amount in line with what we have in Norway. So this gives results, and a lot of this is kind of the basic foundation for combating corruption and illegal capital flow. Let me also mention that when the Prime Minister was in Davos earlier this year, she also raised anti-corruption and that matter as an important matter for Norway, so this is a priority that has great support from the highest government. I think, as I said, we agree on a lot, and as the interpellant was inside, it's about what's going on in the future. Yeah, it's been a decline. But, as I said, in 2018 Norway's efforts in this area are increasing by 90 million. kr, and we will, compared to 2015, deliver on our promise in the Addis Tax Initiative to double the amount. So this is to be stepped up, and it's to be stepped up in all of the channels that the interpellant was occupied with. I am pleased with the support that I feel the interpellant gives to this work. The interpellant was also concerned with the importance of civil society. It is quite clear that civil society here is a major contributor not least to raising awareness of the problem and to addressing it in other ways with the authorities of developing countries. We are going to contribute, as I said, through close political dialogue with the authorities of developing countries, and on all the trips I have been on so far, this item has been on my agenda in the talks I have had, because it is so crucial to get to the national resource mobilisation that is needed to deliver on the 2030 targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1061	I would like to thank Mr Hareide, who addresses an important and central issue in development policy. It is also the case that the Christian People's Party and the government parties are united on what has traveled in the interpellation today. Achieving national resource mobilisation is an important foundation and concept of development policy, and in particular that all developing countries receiving assistance from Norway also need to have ownership of their own development and to mobilise their own resources in order to achieve just the reduction of poverty. Both tax systems and capital flows are areas that can make developing countries more independent of assistance in the long term, and at least I think that's the way to go. There is not enough aid money, development money, in the world to eradicate hunger and poverty. Getting national mobilisation is, then, the key to bringing both countries and people out of poverty and more into better prosperity. Having good tax systems is also the key to attracting private investment, which is necessary for economic growth and jobs. Norway has committed itself to stepping up the tax-related assistance provided by the so-called Addis obligation, which I hear both the inter-pellant and the Council of State, and that we stand by that commitment. I would like to say a few words about what is related to tax agreements and proposals for uniform taxation of companies. There is a major international debate on how the international tax system works and does not function properly. While there is no doubt that this will affect the development policy prerequisites for achieving results, it also has a significant impact on the private sector that would be able to contribute to the region in order to help countries further in their prosperity development. The work of both the OECD and the UN is important for creating better standards and rules for our international tax system, including those relating to the fight against tax havens and financial secrecy. Norway has a preconceived position on these issues — it has largely been a cross-political consensus on this — and also contributes to the international debate with the development policy objectives as a guide. It is important that tax money is used properly. In order to increase tax revenue to contribute to poverty reduction, public finance management is essential. It is good that Norway supports the programme in co-operation countries to improve both financial management and transparency about the use of public resources. It is about strengthening the whole of public finance management, both tax, expenditure management, budgetary processes and control functions, as the Norwegian national audit at home contributes in other countries. I also hear that the Council of State, returned from its visit to Nepal as late as today's early days, can give fresh examples. It is important that Norway, through the Norwegian National Audit Office and through institutional cooperation and contributions to cooperation, actively supports the work of national audits in developing countries. Finally, I want to say that combating corruption also goes hand in hand with the work of having healthy, healthy tax systems. It is very central that we are able to contribute to the fight against corruption and get a national resource mobilisation in order to achieve a development that is just over time. Having a high level of corruption is poor, and it is not compatible with having both peace and justice and getting a say in it. Not least, Paradise Papers and previous leakages demonstrate that tax evasion, corruption and illegal capital flight are areas where international leadership and cooperation are needed to achieve norm development, follow-up and professional cooperation in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1078	The Progress Party believes that assistance should help self-help, and the objective of the assistance should be the independence of the assistance. Therefore, it is good that the representative Hareide puts good tax systems, anti-corruption and illegal capital movements on the agenda. The Minister for Development pointed out that the tax intake is now below 15 p.m. for 30 of the 75 poorest countries. By comparison, the average OECD country is above 35 pst. The tax entrance must be at least 15 pst. of GDP to maintain a minimum of basic services for the population. In the long run, it is unreasonable for the North to use the tax money to pay for welfare services that could have been financed by countries themselves — if they had collected sufficient taxes. Tax collection is not just the basis for welfare services to the population; it is one of the cornerstones of the development of a country. It helps to bind the rulers and those who are being directed, and the people have incentives to place their leaders in charge of the use of tax money. In order to obtain tax revenue, managers have to provide for stable conditions, back-up systems to collect taxes from individuals and businesses, and businesses need fair and predictable tax systems and a free, market-oriented economic policy in order to function properly. In other words, healthy capitalism. This is essential for creating jobs, for creating economic growth. Norway is among the countries with the most effective tax systems. This is why it is good for governments to step up efforts to increase cooperation with developing countries in this area. And it is warned that tax-related assistance should be increased by 90 million. kr for 2018. This is help for self-help. Illegal capital flight and corruption are also two serious problems that hinder development. The illegal flow of capital from developing countries can amount to as much as $1,000 billion each year. So this is seven times as much as the OECD countries provide aid this year. Illegal capital flow is the depletion of national resources that could have been used to build infrastructure and welfare services in poor countries. Research shows that the level of corruption in a country is related to its development. The most corrupt countries are also among the poorest. In many countries, it is very difficult to run a business without having to bribe. It inhibits private sector growth and undermines trust in the system. Anti-corruption has been set up as a cross-cutting consideration in all Norwegian development cooperation. Widespread corruption in countries receiving Norwegian aid should have consequences, for example: by freezing or repayment of funds. But these are not problems that Norway can solve alone. This must be done in cooperation with other countries, in international organisations and not least through the United Nations system and multilateral institutions. Western countries have used more than 1 000 billion. US dollars on aid to African countries over the past 50 years. Norway has used more than 532 billion. kr on global aid from 1960 until 2016. This is a huge amount of money and is a witness to the great gerglede. The question is whether it has helped. If the objective of assistance is to enable countries to get on their feet, to become independent of assistance, then the answer is not a clear yes. South Korea, one of the countries representing the derogation, shows that providing assistance to poor countries is not necessarily the same as creating development. So, finally, the nation states themselves have to take responsibility for their own destiny.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1097	First, I would like to thank the representative Hareide for the interpellation, who addresses a question that is very important, but unfortunately under-disputed in this Chamber. That is why this is a good occasion. I also fully agree with all the points raised by Mr Hareide in his appeal to the Government for more action in this area. ‘Tax for Development’ – and the fight against illegal capital flows and tax havens, I would like to add – is just about no country being served to be beneficiaries of assistance for the future. The aim of the assistance is to deal with the injustice that many poor countries are really rich countries with great resources that can provide the basis for an economy that can create wealth, growth and prosperity for the people of the countries. The challenge is that the income from these resources is so small that most people in poor countries benefit, but instead very often end up with a small but very rich local elite, or that too much of the money goes out of the country and for example. ends up with capitalists and big companies in our part of the world. Building functioning tax systems is one of the most important things we can do to do with this, and fighting tax havens is once again one of the most important things we can do to make it more difficult to bypass the structures to tax resources and business that we contribute to building up. It is positive, I would say, that there is such a unanimous support for the ideas behind the 'Tax for Development' in the debate, also from the Right and the Advance Party, but it must also be allowed to take a moment to describe what has actually happened in recent years. It is that precisely this work has been clearly down-prioritized by the sitting government. It was launched in 2011 ‘Tax for Development’ – as one of several initiatives by the Red-Green Government to make Norwegian development policy more effective and to address it more closely to issues of fair distribution and functioning countries, which in turn is the prerequisite for the effectiveness of assistance. The strategy has been to support actions and reforms globally, regionally and nationally, but in the years following the government change in 2013, Norway has lost its leadership in this area. Less money is spent on the ‘Tax for Development’, which has been less advanced on the government’s agenda both rhetorical and political. It has been noted internationally and even established in one of Norad’s own 2016 evaluation reports that Norway no longer has a global leadership role in this area. There is a lost opportunity that has gone along with Norway's failure to take the lead in the fight against tax havens, and the emphasis on social cohesion in development policy has been strongly reduced. I'm not going to spend more time complaining about this, because actually this is a happy opportunity to start over. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate our new Minister for Development on an incredibly important job. I think that the contribution made here by the government council, Astrup, can hopefully be a fresh start – a new initiative and a new force in this work. If it can, I'm happy to put what's happened in the last few years, behind me and cheering on such a development. There is a need for more money for this work – I am absolutely sure that it is the wisest crowns we can use in the development budget – but there is also a need for greater international emphasis on the problem itself. That is why I think the representative, Mr Hareide, pointed to the need for, for example. getting to international conferences where Norway can once again take a leading role in this area would be of great importance, and I agree with the call for such initiatives to be launched as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1108	Let's start with the big picture. The world’s two main challenges are rapidly increasing social inequalities and escalating climate disturbances. Today’s interpellation is at the heart of both, so thank the representative Hareide for taking up this ball – as the Greens have also put on the agenda – around aggressive tax adaptation in financial and digital markets, and especially towards developing countries. The key to achieving the UN's ambitious sustainable development goals, the so-called SDGs, is to increase taxes and other revenue in the state fund. However, those countries with the greatest need for income in order to secure basic services and reduce poverty often face extra harsh challenges when collecting taxes from companies operating in their territory. Norway has an opportunity here, but also an obligation, to strengthen both its own and others’ ability to develop and implement a good tax policy for the 2000s. For the tax rules that we have today, were developed for an industrial society in the 1900s and are basically out of date. That is why we will and must support the voice of the poor countries in this increasingly important global tax debate. For example, according to the U.N. 425 billion, it disappears. kr from the African continent each year in lost taxes. Only in Kenya would the money from lost tax revenues be enough to cover the entire infrastructure budget, and in addition, 114 new hospitals and 1 100 new health centres could have been built. In addition, tax havens have entered the growing vacuum between tax regimes of different countries. In the past, tax havens were something exotic, used by rich, old aunts, dictators, Nazis and shipowners. Individuals used the secret team offered to hide their wealth without this being a systemic problem. But now the tax havens have evolved into overseas financial centres and offer, in addition to secrecy, services that make it easy for multinational companies to legally navigate international regulations and tax laws. It makes it possible for companies and individuals to choose far too much which laws they want to follow, and how much tax they want to pay. The results, as documented in reports including: from the Tax Justice Network, is a global industry of secrecy, which assists politicians, companies and criminals in depriving the community of huge values through money laundering, tax evasion and financial crime at the top. Different countries' tax systems are deliberately being played against each other in a race towards the bottom, with zero taxes on companies and rich individuals, as we also see here in Norway, such as the United Kingdom. with Google and Facebook, which pays 0.1 pst. in taxes. The work done in the OECD in recent years has been called a revolution by some. The Greens believe that this is not enough. The system needs a deeper shift, and here we believe Norway should take the lead. This will not be easy, and it will require the establishment of long-term, cross-policy work and policies. Today we are in the field of taxation and social inequality about where the environmental and climate issues were in 1992, before the Rio Conference. So today's out-of-date tax rules no longer match the modern global economy, and the consequences of this are cross-sectoral and cross-border. One country's policy affects another in a harmful and unintended way. The tax competition and the resulting race towards the bottom of zero tax do not make sense for the majority of states. This must be recognised, recognised and resolved in international forums. These arenas are not sufficiently present today, and Norway has to play a role in getting them in place. The Environment Party of the Greens therefore believes that Norway, in addition to the fact that the good tax programme for development needs to have more than doubled resources, must also take the initiative – as mentioned here – of a United Nations conference on taxation and financial transparency, which focuses on a thorough shift in international taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1125	I would like to thank the many people who have contributed to a good debate: representatives Schou, Amundsen, Lysbakken and Stoknes. Audun Lightbakken said it very well: Many poor countries are rich land. It's that simple. We, just in a national parliament, know how important it is to have both institutions and frameworks to create a good society. That's actually what this is all about. That is why I am pleased with what the Council of State says that this has been on his agenda on the journeys he has been on. It is my expectation – and as I also belong to the Council of State – that it will still be. It shows that we need a special development minister who has just the opportunity to put this on the agenda and take the initiatives we need. The Minister for Development has a past from the Financial Committee – as late as in the fall. We agreed to increase the sugar levy. I'm going to draw a little parallel -- we know that tobacco is a big challenge, there are 7 million people who lose their lives because of it. Being involved in increasing tobacco taxes is part of a tax system. It has a fantastic health effect, and is a simple form of taxation that benefits citizens of countries. This is mentioned in the Addis initiative, and tobacco has also been developed as a possibility. I'm asking the government council to notice just that. We have a commitment to health and education. I also mean that there are synergies for how we can work on this. For example, Norway should: using its position in different health and education assistance bodies in a strategic way, raising a fair tax policy as an important instrument in national resource mobilisation. Therefore, my challenge is that Norway has had a leadership in this area, we must now work hard to be with her and take her back. It actually shows the post of the Council of State that I have the possibility. I'll finish my post with that very request.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1136	Thank you very much for the debate, and thank you again to the interpellant for raising this important debate, and thank you to those who have contributed. To the last point of Mr. Hareide's representative, namely to take this up and connect our commitment to health, education and other important areas with this important area, I am glad that I have already done so and will continue to do so. When I was in Senegal, not long ago, and promised off, on behalf of the Norwegian government, 2 billion. I also added in my speech that Norway was ready to double the tax-related assistance to those countries that themselves were willing to take ownership in this area. At the same conference, the relationship between national resource mobilisation and achievement of the sustainability goals in education was also very evident. As mentioned, 97 pst. of resources come nationally and 3 pst. from international donors. At that conference, the number of countries with which Norway increased its assistance was not alarming. The alarming thing was how much developing countries themselves promised to increase the priority of education. It was over 40 p.p., to 110 b.p. dollar. Among other things, Our contribution could help trigger that kind of priority from so many developing countries, I think it was right. Hopefully, we can achieve much of the same in tax-related assistance. So to the representative Lightbakken, who thought this had not been high enough priority: well, anti-corruption is a cross-cutting theme in our development effort and a central part of the development message, including illegal capital flow, and it is a theme that will be followed up. As I said, the year started with Erna Solberg traveling to Davos and hoisting just this tab, and I think that's an important arena to do it on. This is a work that we obviously have to follow up. Norway shall continue to be an active driver in this work also within the OECD. It is not in my portfolio, but it is an important work done by others in the government. The representative, Amundsen, spoke about the objective of aid and that it must be aid-free. I agree with him in that, and what is gratifying is that this goal is also shared by more and more developing countries. Last time I was in Senegal, Ghana’s president said that his vision was a ‘Ghana beyond AIDS’. I think that's a good vision, as we, through, among other things. tax-related assistance in other areas can help to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1152	The interaction debate was closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1164	: Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1173	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 3-5, by Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that any future prohibitions in the form of regulations against some semi-automatic rifle models permitted for hunting shall not apply to authorisations already granted. the details of the transitional arrangements, as set out in: the proposal for the second paragraph of Section 43 of the new Arms Act must provide a real opportunity for holders of prohibited weapons to retain them if they are legally acquired by the date of entry into force of any future prohibitions.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to introduce a compensation scheme for arms owners which is subject to the prohibition of certain types of semi-automatic rifles if the prohibition is applied retroactively’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1205	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 12 of the fourth paragraph of the Arms Act No. 2 is replaced by the following: 2. the number of authorised firearms that may be acquired for sport shooting per shooting programme;’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1222	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how arms owners affected by the ban on certain types of semi-automatic rifles can be compensated’. The centre party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1945	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to Section 30, fifth paragraph, and proposal No. 5 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fifth paragraph of Section 30 of the Arms Act is replaced by the following: In order to verify whether the requirements for storage under the second paragraph of Section 19 have been met, the police may require access to the holder’s private dwelling in accordance with the conditions laid down in Section 41(1). 28. Police may only carry out checks after the first sentence when the holder is alerted at least 48 hours in advance’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1962	The recommendation from the Committee to Section 11, first paragraph, Section 26, third paragraph, and Section 41, first paragraph, No. 11th@item: inlistbox The Socialist Left Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1976	The recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected for the purposes of point 12 of the fourth paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Labour Party and the Center Party have already received subsidized support for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1988	The recommendation from the Committee is then rejected for the rest of the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e1998	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2008	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2033	During the debate, Mr Eide has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate how the police can organise personal checks/ID checks at airports. The investigation shall propose a solution to the police's responsibility for border controls, while allowing the police to delegate more powers to other departments in such cases, such as the customs office, as provided for in the proposal for a new border law § 7».
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2497	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2508	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2517	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Peter Frølich on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to amend the penal code which make it clear that it is illegal without consent to share or otherwise publish images of others which are revealing, demeaning or offensive and expressly prohibiting porn of revenge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2544	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2552	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals for a separate provision of the criminal law which makes it clear that it is illegal without consent to share or otherwise publish images of others which have a revealing, degrading or offensive character, which explicitly prohibits porn of revenge and which increase the penalties for such acts.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2569	Proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a legislative proposal which makes it clear that it is illegal without consent to share or otherwise publish images of others of a revealing, degrading or offensive nature, which explicitly prohibits porn of revenge, and to assess the need for a change in the criminal framework for this type of crime.’ The Left and Christian People's Party have every support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Greens now have subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2586	In Case No. 5 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-08.ana.ud546e2617	Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
