ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e44	Honourable co-representatives! On September 12, 2018, former depositor Jorunn Ringstad, 75 years old, disappeared. She represented Sogn and Fjordane and the Center Party at Stortinget from 1993 to 2005. Before joining the policy, Jorunn Ringstad worked for many years as a teacher at Askvoll Secondary School. Her political commitment was seriously aroused when, in 1976, she entered into the local policy of Askvoll Municipality. Ten years later she became the first female rapporteur in the municipality. For six years she was a visible and capable rapporteur in Askvoll – before being elected as a representative in this Chamber in 1993. During the 12 years she spent at Stortinget, she was involved in a large and important time for the Centre Party – from the EU match, via the central government at the end of the 1990s to the red-green government cooperation from 2005. When Jorunn Ringstad entered the Stortinget in 1993, she was a member of the Justice Committee for four years, and then she joined the Transport Committee. Being a traffic figure is an important role, and that Jorunn Ringstad had this position for two periods, says a lot about how much she meant to both the bulk and the party. Jorunn Ringstad was a working iron. Politically she stood well planted in the middle of the party. It made her a gathering person within the group. She found ways and solutions that different sides of the centre party could be satisfied with. She was sluggish and tidy, and you always knew where you had her. In short, people trusted Jorunn Ringstad. This made her, among other things, As a member of the Group's Board of Directors, Parliamentary Vice-Chairman and member of the Presidency of the Stortinge. Next to the policy, she also had a number of responsibilities. She was, among other things, Chairman of the Committee of Road Surveillance and Member of the National Election Board. For ten years she was also a member of the board of Health Förde, first as a board member, then vice-chairman and finally as chairman. We bring peace to Jorunn Ringstad's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e67	The representative Else-May Botten, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Else-May Botten, Espen Barth Eide, Liv Kari Eskeland, Lars Haltbrecken, Stefan Heggelund, Gisle Meininger Saudland, as well as from the meeting representative of the Vestfold County, Renate Silver, on leave from 10 December to 14 December, and from the representative of Ketil Kjenseth on leave from 10 December to 15 December, all to participate in the high-level part of the 24th Conference of the Parties to the UN Climate Convention and the Paris Agreement, COP24, in Katowice, Poland by the Central Party Group on the leave of the representative Heidi Greni on 10 and 11 December to attend the Bureau meeting of the Nordic Council of Helsinki. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for Oslo, Camilla Strandskog, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Stefan Heggelund for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West-Agder counties: Theodor Helland For the Hordaland counties: Sigurd Hille For the Moors and the Romsdal counties: Anne Kristin Bryne For the Uppland counties: Ingerd Thon Hagaseth For the Oslo: Mats A. Kirkebirkeland and Zaineb Al-Samarai For the South Tributary: Geir Arild Espnes and Mona Berger For the Westfold counties: Henning Wold
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e155	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e160	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Ole André Myhrvold, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Bengt Fasteraune and myself to stop the construction of bed places and increase the daily capacity of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e165	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e183	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e192	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and thorough consideration of this matter. The Ministry proposes in its proposal to abolish the principle of one citizenship. Solution from other citizenship will no longer be a condition for entitlement to Norwegian citizenship, and Norwegian citizens will no longer automatically lose their citizenship by acquiring other citizenship. There is a clear majority of the hearing opinions that are positive in the resolution of today's general rule on one citizenship. It is noted by a number of hearing bodies that both maintaining and abolishing the principle of one citizenship will have advantages and disadvantages, but that there are more positive aspects than negative ones by abolishing the principle of one citizenship. The Ministry has explained possible negative consequences for the crime scene, and only the Police Department states that, in the light of the crime scene, they do not support the proposal. Kripos and the Police Directorate state that it is important to be aware of the challenges of resolving the principle of one nationality for the fight against crime. The proposal does not imply any change in the other requirements for the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship, as a requirement for a clear identity and reputation. As pointed out by the Oslo Police District, the proposal could also contribute to greater transparency and control, as many today retain their original citizenship after having been granted Norwegian citizenship, without informing the Norwegian authorities. Like the UDI, the Department shows that ID crime is already a problem today. Many argue that measures to combat this type of crime should be investigated independently of the present proposal. As the rapporteur, I have noticed the notions of the importance of citizenship in child abduction cases. I am of the opinion that there are no clear trends suggesting that any change in the principle of one citizenship would have significant negative consequences for such matters. In some cases, it may be beneficial for the law to open up more citizenship, including: the possibility of one child losing Norwegian citizenship by reason of the acquisition of another shall lapse. The fact that children or others also have Norwegian citizenship will in some cases make it easier for Norwegian authorities to assist them. In other cases, several citizenships may make Norwegian assistance difficult. It is important to note that the derogation already makes that over 50 pst. by those who acquire Norwegian citizenship, retain their old status. In particular, this applies to countries at risk of coercion. Thus, there is reason to believe that legislative changes will make a small difference to current practices for this risk group. It is important – regardless of this issue – to strengthen the prevention of coerciveness and social control. The proposal for the winding-up of the principle of one citizenship must be seen in the context of the amendments to the Civil Code on the loss of citizenship by punishment, adopted in March 2018. It is a prerequisite for excluding persons from citizenship that they have more citizenship than Norwegian, and the loss rule will not have full effect if the general rule of one citizenship is not changed. I believe that the new framework for the loss of citizenship and the proposed liquidation of today's main principle of one citizenship can help prevent terrorist activities in Norway. The legislative proposal may also facilitate the return of persons who have been granted their citizenship due, for example, to incorrect information. There is no reason to argue that a general opening of the law to allow more than one citizenship would weaken the individual’s loyalty or sense of belonging to Norway. The proposed re-suspension provision is intended to compensate for the former loss of Norwegian citizenship. The right to re-establishment by notification shall apply only to persons who have effectively acquired Norwegian citizenship and subsequently lost it as a result of the principle of one citizenship. I have noticed that some hearing bodies have stated that the winding-up of the principle of one nationality should also have consequences for those who have lost their citizenship under Section 24 of the Civil Code. The majority do not agree that it should apply to this group, as we do not consider it to be a result of the principle of one citizenship. The majority join the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e222	I would also like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee. The Labour Party believes that the government does not respond well enough to the Storting's request decision from 2016, both in the consultation note and in the legislative proposal. There we asked the government to investigate how the general rule of one citizenship turns out in practice in a more globalized everyday life. The Labour Party believes that a thorough and good discussion is lacking as to the consequences of dual citizenship for integration in Norway, and in particular what negative effects it may have. The proposal discusses specific situations, but lacks a general discussion of what the proposal will involve for children and young people who are subject to various forms of social control. This is pointed out by several bodies in the hearing, without being followed up in the proposal sent to the Size. A number of hearing bodies point out in their replies that when Norwegian citizens are in their other country of origin, consular assistance will be very difficult for Norway. Dual citizenship may make it more difficult to provide citizens who have committed or plan to commit serious crime. Furthermore, dual citizenship can facilitate the conduct of ID crime. It allows some to operate with one identity in Norway and another in another country. We are concerned about the consequences of dual citizenship for children and young people who are subjected to forced marriage and wife dumping. We have the police with us. In their letters of consultation, they state that the liquidation of the principle of one citizenship may pose challenges to crime prevention. This could lead to a greater degree of ID crime and, furthermore, to the proposal enabling criminals with multiple citizenship to move smoothly between countries. Several hearing bodies point to the fact that the termination of the principle may have a negative impact on forced marriages, child abduction and detention abroad and make consular assistance more difficult. Cripos considers it important to address the specific challenges that child-reduction issues could trigger. There is no doubt that some in Norway will benefit from changes allowing dual citizenship. The bill makes a good account of that. At the same time, the changes could obviously have a negative impact on vulnerable and vulnerable groups. The negative consequences for vulnerable groups in our society are much more serious and weigh most heavily on the Workers' Party. Standing up for the most vulnerable among us never gets immature, no matter how it twists and twists. In the setting SV writes that these issues cannot be decisive in this case. I can't understand how standing up for the most vulnerable among us is not the most forward-looking thing we can do. During the comitology of the case, the Workers' Party asked the Ministry: ‘How does the Ministry intend to provide consular assistance to persons with dual citizenship if a person needs it in the country in which it has its other citizenship?’ The Ministry, in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, answers: ‘This introduction may present challenges in our ability to assist Norwegian citizens living in a country of which they are also citizens.’ Further: ‘Relations with several countries involve experience-enhancing complexity and major challenges related to the consular assistance of the Norwegian authorities.’ And on the other hand, ‘This is particularly true in acute or more complex cases where individuals have been in difficult and sometimes life-enhancing situations. In several cases, any assistance provided by the Norwegian authorities will be subject to authorisation from the host Member State’s authorities.’;» The Labour Party understands that the legislation can be seen as rigid today. Today's general rule particularly affects the Nordics who, for a short or longer time, move abroad and take other citizenship. They will automatically lose their Norwegian citizenship without exception and without the right to complain. We need a code that reflects the reality of many people living in. In a globalised society, many have membership of several countries. We in the Labour Party see that the legislation as practiced today can be perceived arbitrarily. That is why we propose the following: ‘The Government is asked to review the practice of the law relating to the principle of individual citizenship and, where appropriate, to propose amendments to prevent any possibility of its being practised.’ With this I address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e263	The representative Siri Gassemyr Staalese has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e268	When we now open up dual citizenship, we make sure that Norwegian law follows developments in society. More and more Nordics are still associated with more countries. The Norwegians leave, work, get married and busied abroad, but still want to join Norway. And all countries in the Nordic countries and most countries in Europe have already opened up to double citizenship. Today, Norwegians automatically lose their Norwegian citizenship if they are citizens of another country. This is unfortunate, and we are now making sure that the Norwegians who bused abroad can keep their Norwegian citizenship. Those who have lost it in the past will now be able to get it back in a simpler way. We also get a new important secret about the loss of Norwegian citizenship in criminal matters. The ability to withdraw from any citizenship under new Paragraph 26(a) may, in some cases, be decisive to safeguard our security, and the winding-up of the principle of one citizenship is a condition for that person to have full effect. We share the commitment to keep children and adults under compulsion, abduction and negative social control, as the Labour Party points out. We have put in place many measures to prevent such cases and to provide better assistance to those who will be affected. Saying no to double citizenship is not a good thing to achieve this goal. According to today's general rule, children also automatically lose Norwegian citizenship by acquiring other citizenship. This is particularly problematic in matters where one of the parents has abducted the child abroad. The proposal will ensure that children who are abducted abroad do not lose Norwegian citizenship even if they acquire another citizenship. It is also important that we strengthen legal protection for those under compulsion and negative social control, for example. by assessing the refusal to issue passports where young people are suspected of being sent out of the country and are at risk of forced marriages, restrictions on freedom and violence. There is also work to establish procedures for informing and alerting public authorities, such as Nav, school, police, child protection and health services, to counteract negative social control and to ensure that young people are sent out of the country against their will. Such challenges must be dealt with by Norwegian administrations, regardless of whether we have a general rule of one citizenship or whether we allow double citizenship. Many exceptions have already been made to the principle of one citizenship. Norway is the international obligation to make such exceptions in very many cases. This has led many to double citizenship, for example: people from Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq and Morocco, while others, including Norwegian citizens who are granted citizenship in another country, have not had this possibility. When the principle of one citizenship is abolished, there will be greater equality of treatment between citizens. I understand it so that the department got a lot of personal audiocassettes in this case. There's evidence that there's a lot of commitment to this, and that it means a lot to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e289	The Central Party does not support the proposal to liquidate the principle of one citizenship. We believe it is very problematic that this is adopted in the Storting without thorough enough investigation. The Central Party has previously raised some issues that we do not know enough about the consequences of dual citizenship on citizens' rights and obligations in Norway. In an increasingly globalised world, it is central to clarifying the relationship between individuals and the nation-state. The principle of one citizenship contributes to a clear delineation of this relationship. We think that serves Norway well. Citizenship means a clarification of their duties and responsibilities towards Norway, but also of their duties and responsibilities towards their citizens. Schemes such as compulsory protection and social security benefits are key aspects which should be fully clarified before the Grand Duchy, if any, opens up to allow dual citizenship. Aspects such as individual loyalty, influence on integration and belonging to Norway have not been elucidated. I refer to the fact that Kripos, the Oslo Police District and the Police Directorate have pointed to the challenges of combating crime as well as to the possibility that Norwegian authorities have to prevent criminal offences against Norwegian citizens abroad. A number of hearing bodies, including the Police Directorate, consider that dual citizenship will have a negative impact on the issue of forced marriage and child abduction, and that double citizenship makes consular assistance in these matters difficult. The Foreign Affairs Unit of the police does not support the proposal and fears that it could lead to a greater degree of ID crime, and that it could make control more difficult and facilitate the movement of criminals between countries, including entering and leaving Schengen. At the same time, we in the Centre Party also realise that today's legislation can provide some practical challenges for some, such as: Nordics abroad who have to resign from their Norwegian citizenship in order to work in, for example: a public hospital abroad, which then loses its rights in Norway. There is no doubt that for some, a possibility of dual citizenship will be useful. Therefore, the Centre Party participated in supporting the request decision No. 525 of 15 March 2016, where it says ‘The government is asked to explain how the general rule of one citizenship is reflected in a more globalised day-to-day practice, including the image of employment and security and crime, and any need for changes to the national law as a result. The government is also asked to assess whether changes in other laws can remedy the situation of those who today experience disadvantages in the principle of one citizenship, rather than change the national law. An investigation must also assess the consequences of the possible opening up of dual citizenship to Norway’s obligations and rights.’;» Unfortunately, the government has not followed up, even though it is almost three years ago. The Central Party therefore considers that this needs to be thoroughly investigated and that it is necessary to consider whether changes should be made to meet the challenges raised here, without compromising the principle of one citizenship. That is why, together with the Labour Party, we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to review the practice of the law relating to the principle of individual citizenship and, where appropriate, to propose amendments to prevent any possibility of its being practised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e316	SV is very pleased today because we have been the initiators, along with the Left, to introduce double citizenship in Norway, and it is time. That's how it is in most other European countries, and that's how it should be in a world where people study, work, fall in love and move across borders and continents. It's positive, and I kind of react to someone thinking that it's not possible to have loyalty to two countries, and that if you have one part of yourself in one country and one part of yourself in another country, you're kind of inclined to be almost criminal in one country. People aren't most like that. SV is also committed to combating international crime and ID crime. That is why we are now calling for the government to work on, among other things. biometric identification and ID card, which should have been in place several years ago. It's this thing that can prevent juxtaposition with multiple IDs. That's what's going to mean, not if you allow double citizenship or not. There are also central party objections related to issues such as protection obligations. Then I can tell you that it is settled in agreements with other countries, so there is no problem or something that should be a topic. What we need to discuss is the abduction of children and forcibly, which unfortunately is a reality today. I would like to refer to the IMDI hearing opinion where they say that dual citizenship could have consequences for the Norwegian authorities' ability to provide consular assistance, but that this problem is already there today because in several of the countries where forced marriages occur, in any case cannot be resolved from their original citizenship. So there's nothing that we're doing today that will change that. The IMDI also points out that the change may result in a number of non-nationals from the country in question who have not previously applied for Norwegian citizenship because they would then have to resign from their original, perhaps now. This means, in contrast to what the Workers' Party and the Centre say, that children can now become Norwegian citizens and that it can be easier to help. This is a problem, but it's not through the citizenship law that we're going to solve this. SV has already called for international child protection. I understand that's hard, because child protection is a government intervention in families. But we have to get better systems for this, because it's a problem. But first of all, this is about all the measures we have to take in this country to ensure that these children – who are Norwegian – are looked after by society, the school and all of us, and that there are relief measures available if they are at risk. I am very pleased that this is now being adopted. The SV disagrees with the government, and the premise is that double citizenship should make it easier to lose Norwegian citizenship. SV has also voted in favour of the loss of citizenship as a punishment, but it is a punishment for a criminal offence, and not for the possibility of deporting more people. I also think I have to add that if we are to prevent terrorism, it is probably not depriving citizenship of the important instrument. It's intelligence, good police work internationally and security measures, which we discussed for several hours here in the hall yesterday, and where the government has a little bit left to deliver before we can feel safe. So that -- in retrospect -- would risk losing a citizenship for someone who is willing to commit terror, I don't think it's very deterrent, to say it outright. If you are a terrorist and are willing to both risk your life and kill others, hardly citizenship is any special obstacle to that happening. So I'm very happy with this. This is essentially a positive case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e337	This is a big day for Nordics who feel connected to more than one country — for Norwegians who want to keep their Norwegian citizenship even if they live in another country, because they feel equally attached to both countries, and for new Norwegians who want to become Norwegian without having to state their original citizenship. Left-proposed proposal on dual citizenship already in 2015, together with SV. It only got the votes of the Left and SV at the time, but the majority could reach out to ask for an investigation with an assessment of the consequences of a possible opening. On the Jeløya platform, the Left was given a leverage for dual citizenship, and it was with the Left in the government that the proposal was submitted to the Stortinget. I'm very proud of that. The principle of one citizenship was introduced at about the time the Left was formed, and there were many wise men who made wise decisions at that time. But the world has changed, and it is high time that Norway followed our Nordic neighbouring countries and other European countries with which it is natural to compare. Why are these changes important? We call on the Nordics to go out for training and work experience, but we have been too little good at facilitating that they also maintain links with Norway for example. easy to come home again. Nordics who are educated and who work abroad for periods can quickly end up forming a family in another country, and then it's not unnatural to have an equal relationship with two countries, although there are some parties that think this is quite incomprehensible. For children with different citizenships, for example, we have had a situation where the sibling can end up with different citizenships, depending on where they were actually born. With the changes we are making today, a family no longer needs to be divided between two countries because one half of the family has citizenship in one country and the other half in the other. There is an important reason for making these changes. Despite the principle of one citizenship, many have until now retained their original citizenship once they have received Norwegian citizenship. International obligations have allowed nationals of countries such as Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran and Morocco to retain their original citizenship because they cannot be disbanded from it for various reasons. At the same time, we have citizens from our European neighbours and from the United States, etc. who has had to give up their original citizenship in order to become Norwegian. We believe that this is an unreasonable discrimination, which I am pleased that it is now coming to an end. So I'd like to refer to Mr. Karin Andersen's contributions, where she meets many of the objections that have come up against making these changes. I therefore see no reason to review those arguments again. But both with regard to child abduction and terrorism, we fully agree that the very thing about the abolition of citizenship and not being Norwegian is a very little effective measure to prevent the negative issues in that area. There are several who are concerned about the reasons for promoting this proposal. Let there be no doubt about the justification of the Left: it is simply about Norway having to adapt to the global reality we live in. We have to recognise that many today are related to more than one country, and it is high time that we adapted our legislation to what is the legal situation in the Nordic countries and most other countries in Europe. There are several who define themselves as world citizens, who work across borders, and who live their lives in different countries in different parts of their lives. It is fully possible to feel both attachment and loyalty to more than one country. There is nothing problematic about it – I believe that on the contrary is something that can help to strengthen international cooperation, Norwegian society and Norwegian democracy. Finally, I just want to say that I am very happy that today we also open up that former Norwegian citizens who have lost their citizenship can get this back in a simpler way. Many Norwegians have reluctantly lost their Norwegian citizenship as a result of having become nationals of another country. I am very happy that we are now cleaning up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e358	We've easily thought that everything that happens in this room is important, and that's it. But there are some issues that are more important than others, and today we are discussing such a matter. Today, when we deal with changes in national law, it is an example of a matter of particular importance. This is the very formalisation of the social contract between the state and a citizen, and there is no small question at a time when this social contract is under strong pressure and a sustained debate. As a representative of the Christian People's Party, I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget now finally agrees to abolish the principle of one citizenship. It is entirely in line with the signals we have received from a clear majority of the hearing opinions of public institutions, organisations and individuals. We have been told the benefits and disadvantages both by maintaining the principle and by resolving it. I think it's done well from this pulpit of several parties before today, so I don't go into it any more, I'm just going to back it up. However, when it comes to abolishing the principle of one citizenship, it is quite clear that this will give far more positive signals than negative ones. The advantages of abolishing the principle of one citizenship are many. I just need to mention a couple. If you are a Norwegian citizen of Sweden, and there are many of them, you cannot become a Swedish citizen without giving up your Norwegian citizenship. If you put on the goggles, we see that the possibility of a double citizenship will give more people the chance to see themselves as a Norwegian citizen without having to renounce their citizenship from another country. As former rapporteur in Vennesla, I have participated in civil ceremonies on several occasions. It has made a big impression on me, because on these solemn and dignified markings, the transition of individuals to a social contract with Norway has been celebrated. It is not the case, as some have claimed, that a general opening of the law to allow more than one citizenship would weaken the individual's loyalty or sense of belonging to Norway. On the contrary, several of the country’s inhabitants will now have the opportunity to link stronger and more formal ties with Norway. It might be appropriate to end this article by repeating the words of the vow of allegiance made during these ceremonies. It sounds like this: ‘As a Norwegian citizen, I promise allegiance to my country Norway and Norwegian society, and I support democracy and human rights and will respect the laws of the country.’ I am pleased that more people in the future will have the opportunity to make this promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e380	The changes in the laws adopted today by the Stortinget mean that the rules on citizenship are being adapted to our times. The principle of one citizenship was introduced in 1888. Since then, the world has changed considerably. In our modern, globalized world, many are related to different countries. The Nordics leave, get married, work and live abroad. Foreign citizens live here and want to become citizens of Norwegian society. It is common and natural to have links with several countries, and the legislation should not prevent this. The principle of one citizenship has already been abandoned by all our Nordic neighbouring countries and by most countries in Europe. Also in Norway, more than half of those who have applied have retained their original citizenship once they have become Norwegian nationals. This has been necessary because many cannot get away from their original citizenship, for various reasons. In particular, citizens from Eritrea, Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Afghanistan and Russia have dual citizenship. Today’s legislation thus means that very many immigrants to Norway have dual citizenship, while Norwegians who have moved abroad have lost their Norwegian citizenship once they have a new one. There has been a strain on many who have wanted to keep a link with Norway, where they are born and raised. Similarly, many from European countries, the United States and elsewhere have wanted to become Norwegian citizens without stating the nationality of their country of origin. Now, when we wind up the principle of one citizenship, we're going to get a greater degree of equal treatment and justice. It is also gratifying that the majority of the Storting joins in our proposal for a simple procedure for the re-establishment of citizenship of the Nordics who have lost it in the past. The Central Party has argued that the proposal primarily benefits diplomatic children and privileges. There is a grossly erroneous and unreasonable presentation of the many thousands of Norwegians who have been affected by today's legislation. I would recommend the Central Party to read the 257 hearing opinions, from very ordinary Nordics, who support the proposal. Many say that they are married and live abroad, but that contact with family, friends and their country of origin Norway is still very important to them. With the support of the majority, they will retain their Norwegian citizenship and ties with Norway. There have also been allegations of problems of loyalty and security if the bill is adopted. However, there is no reason for general suspicion of people related to several countries. In addition, we already have a number of provisions that allow us to assess safety considerations in cases where there is a need for them. We share the minority's commitment to ensuring good follow-up and assistance to people affected by coercion, negative social control and abduction. However, the minority's no to the proposal is a small, precise action against coercion, while at the same time it will affect many people who will have significant benefits from dual citizenship. Many affected by coercion come from countries where we allow, and must allow, double citizenship. For several of them, a Norwegian citizenship, as well as the original one, will provide Norwegian authorities with better opportunities to assist. The government has launched an action plan with 28 concrete actions to change attitudes and practices, provide better legal protection to victims and ensure better follow-up in the emergency services. We thus ensure a targeted effort against coercion and at the same time open up to double citizenship, which will benefit very many.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e409	The Foreign Affairs Unit of the police does not support this proposal. They say that it will lead to a greater level of ID crime and that it will facilitate the movement of criminals with more citizenship between countries, including to and from Schengen. Furthermore, the Association of Lawyers, the Children's Ombudsman, the POD, Kripos and many others say that this is a proposal that will have a negative impact on issues of forced marriage, child abduction and detention abroad, and that it will make consular assistance in such cases difficult. So it can have serious consequences for many children and young people. Why does the Council of State feel that this is not important to consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e414	I don't think the representative can have heard – and followed – my contribution and my commitment through my time as a knowledge and integration minister if she thinks I haven't been committed to those who are subjected to coercion and negative social control. There is also a rather distorted presentation of the hearing opinions. The reality is that Kripos and the police support the proposal. Of course, it's a balance of advantages and disadvantages. Our point is that in the fight against negative social control it is to say no to double citizenship a small targeted measure, for many of those who are subjected to negative social control, come from just countries where you have to maintain your original citizenship in order to have a Norwegian – they have double citizenship. I think we should stand together in the fight against coercion, abduction and negative social control. Then there are other targeted measures that apply, and they have already been presented to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e423	I would like to thank the Council of State for the statement, but there is an objection that has come, and which is a much more important matter if we are to prevent international crime. It is to put in place biometric identification, so that people cannot operate with multiple identities. Having dual citizenship is not having multiple identities. Having several identities means operating with several sets of identification papers. If you put biometric identification in place, this won't be possible, because then it will be revealed. I know it's not in the state council's portfolio, but since this has been an important topic in this particular case, I'm going to ask the state council how far you've now come with the national identification cards, and whether you're sure this is going to come into place, so we can prevent people from operating with more identities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e430	As pointed out by the replicator, this is not the responsibility of the Council of State, so I leave to the Council of State to decide whether he will answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e435	I can't answer it precisely with propulsion and when this comes – precisely because I'm not responsible. However, I would like to stress that I agree with the representative that the control of biometry and the fight against ID crime is very important, and that it is very important independently of this matter. And we obviously agree that we do not fight ID crime and double identities by saying no to this proposal. We're going to work purposefully to combat ID crime, and I also want to stress that Norwegian citizenship is going to hang high. It's hanging high today, and it's going to hang high. The identity, reputation and residence of Norway should be clarified in order to become a Norwegian national. It's firm, and then we have to work purposefully and well to fight ID crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e442	The Labour Party believes that both in the consultation note and in the legislative proposal, the government lacks a thorough discussion of the implications of dual citizenship for the security picture, for the crime scene, for the integration and for the equality principle for the citizens of a country. At the same time, we all see in this Chamber the benefits of allowing double citizenship in a world that is getting smaller and more people moving across borders. The nation state is based on the idea of a national community, and we must now be able to say something about how the nation state should be and to clarify important characteristics of the nation state in a world where migration is one of the leading trends defining our time. As the Christian People's Party said in the debate, there is a social contract between citizens and the state – that's important. My question to the Council of State is this: What obligations do the members of a national state have, and does the Council of State think it is right to be a member of two national states?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e451	As I explained in my article, there are already many people who have dual citizenship, and in the Nordic region all the other countries have now gone away from having only one citizenship. A great many of those who have dual citizenship are just immigrants. Many have come from Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran and Morocco. To a large extent, they are allowed to have dual citizenship, i.e.: that they must have it if they are to have a Norwegian. I believe that Norwegian citizenship should hang high. It is important that there are clear demands to become a Norwegian citizen, but I believe that we now also need to place greater emphasis on the ability of Norwegians to maintain their Norwegian citizenship and their relationship with Norway when they leave and acquire a new citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e458	I notice that the Council of State did not respond to the question of which obligations to follow. But instead of spending time asking the question again, I'm changing the theme. In 2017, 65 children were left abroad and 79 cases of involuntary residence abroad. Does the Council of State think that all of these 144 children and adults would have received better consular assistance if they had had double citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e465	Since the representative says that I did not answer the question, the obligations will be exactly the same after this is adopted, as they have been before. So I think you should be a little careful to say that it will be a lot easier or a lot more difficult to provide assistance on the issues that the representative is dealing with. The reality is that very many of those children come from just those countries where we allow to have double citizenship today. We allow dual citizenship for citizens from Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran and Morocco, precisely because they cannot give up their original citizenship. I think we need to unite in the fight against negative social control. We need more measures to help those who are abducted or sent to other countries in so-called rehabilitation institutions. That fight, I believe, is not affected by this issue; the fight we must fight through other targeted actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e472	One of the discussions about dual citizenship has been on the duty of protection, and let me quote: ‘One of the challenges that emerge and that may become difficult is that you have a duty to protect in two countries. It is challenging for us that a Norwegian citizen participates in the military forces of another country. It's one of the things that's hard and so far has been the reason why we don't go in for this." It says Erna Solberg, head of Right and Prime Minister. Does the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner agree with the Prime Minister in this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e483	The representative should also have stated when this opinion was given. We have in our government statement that we should allow dual citizenship, and now we do. With regard to the issue of compulsory protection itself, there is also a current issue, precisely because there are very many immigrants in Norway who have dual citizenship. There is the point, according to Section 6 of the Defence Act, that: «Norwegian nationals who are also nationals of another country shall be subject to protection in Norway for as long as they reside here and for as long as agreement with the other country does not prevent it». So there's a problem we have to deal with, regardless of whether we're in favour of one citizenship or the possibility of having two citizenships.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e495	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e502	Democracy is unique. Those who rule are governed by those who rule. Therefore, democracy depends entirely on the fact that those who are being guided are being informed that we are being told the effects of what the governing decisions. In this case, it has not happened. The proposition is based on the way lawyers understand what citizenship is all about. Individuals who are positive to the repeal of the principle of one citizenship have been very active and have reached the government. It is important to debate the interests of individuals who want dual citizenship, as opposed to the consequences for the country as a society. In the EU, EU citizenship applies to EU members, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Citizenship in the EU is made a matter of being able to move more easily and adapt to the labour market. The Central Party refers to in the nomination of NOU 2000: 32, Act on the acquisition and loss of Norwegian citizenship. In this NOU, Member Alf-Inge Jansen has a dissident who is very important, namely that dual citizenship means that the ‘exclusive principle of equality is broken and replaced by a principle of difference’, and that this ‘applies to all members of the community – not only to those who are granted the benefits’. The center part also points this out. This is not thoroughly investigated. Is this a big deal? Yes. In response to my question, the Council of State Sanner answers in a letter dated 4 May 2018 that, between 2007 and 2017, a total of 135,000 people in ten years of age, i.e. more than 13,500 people per year, have been granted double citizenship. That's the dimensions. Those numbers are not disclosed in the proposition. Do we know who has dual citizenship? No, no, no. Shouldn't it be disclosed to the public? It's a matter of time. It's about trust and respect between people. Other, including: Mr Trellevik spoke of a non-discrimination between citizens. As I referred to, there will be no equal treatment between citizens when you have two citizenships versus one citizenship. That is what is fundamental: those who have two citizenships have exclusive rights and obligations in two countries, while those who have one citizenship are linked to Norwegian citizenship. Thus, dual citizenship violates the exclusive principle of equality and is replaced by a principle of diversity, by the fact that some citizens can also belong to another political community and act on its behalf. The case is not well informed, therefore the Centre Party and the Labour Party propose a review of legislation relating to citizenship. It is a very important matter, and it is interesting that the Right and the Advance Party are now supporting dual citizenship as a principle for all applicants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e525	The issue we are dealing with today is very serious for the future of the country. Some of the seriousness of the case is illustrated by the fact that at the national meeting of the Progress Party in May 2017, the entire party leadership, i.e. Siv Jensen, the two Vice-Chairmen Per Sandberg and Ketil Solvik-Olsen and also Sylvi Listhaug, opposed to the introduction of dual citizenship. There was an even vote, where the entire party leadership lost. This can be seen in the minutes. At the Højres national meeting, Erna Solberg was active against dual citizenship, and the Prime Minister has continued to actively argue against it. I fully agree with her arguments, so there will be a special debate, in which I agree with Siv Jensen, Per Sandberg, etc. in the party leadership and also in agreement with Erna Solberg. Erna Solberg has not only argued for this when the case was dealt with in the Right, as Jan Tore Sanner said, she has continued with it, among other things. in VG 2 July this summer, where she says she's against double citizenship because "there are some basic values in our society that I think it's very important to make sure that everyone is exposed to." This means that everyone has to decide on fundamental values and that they will have to do less if they are to feel loyalty to two states with completely opposite fundamental principles. This applies to countries such as stands for extreme female oppression, no freedom of religion and expression, violence of honour, social control, polycony, blasphemy, death penalty for blasphemy, forced marriage, etc. You have to feel loyalty to that kind of state and at the same time be loyal to our equal-minded, democratic Norway, which stands for completely opposite principles. A large proportion of the population — an increasing proportion — are being squandered for many generations to come. I see this very clearly in my neighbourhoods It is very disappointing that the government only mentions the issue of the ties to cultures that stand at the very opposite of us, in a very short section on social control, in the context of strengthening the work on the action plan. It is obvious that the bonds to countries of origin that are responsible for these things — child marriages, controls on virgins, the coverage of girls, the leaving of children in Quran schools, etc. – will adhere and develop further with dual citizenship. Several of the active girls in Født Fri say the same thing, and the head of the organisation NOK today writes ironically in a Facebook post, where she comments on Stortinget's treatment today: ‘Good luck to all girls who get married away, many of them under the age of 18’. And... ‘Good luck to all children who are sent to Qur’an schools and now have to be nationals there.’ It's a question of who you listen to, and what you put the most emphasis on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e548	Several allegations have been made that this case is not well informed. What has been good about this matter is that some previous arguments against double citizenship have been refuted in this case. And with regard to social control and coercion, as has been pointed out several times, the risk group is largely given double citizenship today. We had UNICEF at the hearing, and they say that they don't think it will make any difference to today's practice for that risk group. Then you have to assume that the group in the risk zone is not given the opportunity to renounce their citizenship today, and the option of double citizenship will for those in the risk group be only a foreign citizenship. If you only have Somali citizenship, Norwegian authorities have no way of providing assistance, and that's actually the alternative. So just with that argument, a lot of the counter-arguments cancel out. I fully agree with SV – for once, it should not become a habit – that the sense of loyalty is not linked to having one or two citizenships. It's nice to have loyalty to and good, warm feelings for two different states, but if you get into a conflict of loyalty, it's linked to either political or religious convictions, not citizenship. From SV the argument on terror has also been mentioned, and there I do not agree with SV. Because what we have introduced, and still stands for, is linked to preventing terrorism. If we are to maintain the possibility of preventing terrorism, averting terrorist attacks, yes, we must stand by the fact that citizenship must be abolished if we are in a risk group and it is considered that terrorism is likely to be committed against Norway. For the Progress Party, this is an important principle, which we should of course do together with other measures, such as intelligence and other things, which were pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e559	Today, we are making an important decision that will make life easier for many people both inside and outside Norway who, because of work, family, love or other reasons, have a strong connection with two countries. It is strange to witness the strong fear that some representatives express here, among other things. The representatives Gassemyr Staales and Greni, for how this will turn out in a more globalized world, all that time so to say the whole world around us just allows double citizenship today. So one would think that those countries were part of this globalized world that the representatives are talking about. One of the most hair-removing claims made in the public debate on dual citizenship is by the representatives of Battle Violence Vedum and Lundtägen, who seem to believe that double citizenship leads to one's loyalty to Norway being questioned. In an article in the newspaper, they say: «By our citizenship, the membership of the state of Norway, we share a vitally important community of destiny. In this Community, there shall be no uncertainty as to the loyalty and obligations of Norwegian citizens.» As if one or two citizenships determine one’s loyalty to Norway! We have several condemned Northmen with only Norwegian citizenship, and we have soldiers with double citizenship who risk their lives for Norway abroad. So that double citizenship should say something about one's loyalty to Norway, appears to be a mildly said grossly unfair claim. It may also be mentioned that several representatives in this Chamber have more citizenship. It might be interesting to hear if the representatives Schlagsvold Vedum and Lundtigen believe that we have a less loyalty to Norway for that reason. It can also be mentioned that in the worst cases, where the loyalty of Northmen with dual citizenship can actually be questioned, for example. by joining IS or other terrorist groups abroad, this Decision will facilitate their withdrawal from their Norwegian citizenship, since they will not become stateless. This is not the most important argument in my view, but it is a relevant additional argument. Now that we also know that the majority of those applying for dual citizenship are granted this today, it shows that the exception has become the general rule. I believe that in itself is a good argument. First of all, this is a happy day, for example, for thousands of Nordics abroad who want to be able to contribute fully to the society in which they live and work, without having to renounce their Norwegian citizenship, or for families in Norway who all have as strong an emotional connection to Norwegian society, but who for various reasons end up with different citizenships of the family. It is time for Norway to accompany the rest of the world around it in this principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e575	Citizenship is a foundation of our people's rule. Modern citizenship, as we know it, came in 1789 after the French revolution. That's where we know the words freedom, equality and brotherhood. In Norway, our Constitution is motivated by the values that came in 1789. In Norway, citizenship is known from 1814 onwards. We got the first citizenship law in 1888. It is a system that has worked very well – with the rights attached to citizenship, with the right to vote and with all the rights we have to be active participants in the Norwegian People's Republic. Then you've also had duties, like the duty of protection. When reading the hearing opinions, for example: The national safety authority, it turns out, is not only Per Olaf Lundtigen and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum that problematize the conflicts that may arise. This is also what our safety authorities do: there may be challenges for individuals, such as: have served the duty of protection in a country, moving here and serving military service here. Of course, they can face very difficult elections in a situation of conflict. It is Storting's job to have a pre-war thinking about this: how are we going to make sure that we get the least possible of the kind of loyalty conflicts that become difficult for the individual? We believe that it is an advantage for people to make a choice, to make the choice of becoming a full Norwegian citizen, and to have loyalty to Norway and not get into the loyalty conflicts of a possible – thought – crisis situation. Of course, this is not a challenge, largely, in everyday life. Then it's with the vote. We now have a great opportunity to get a Swedish State Council that is also a Norwegian citizen. How big is that problem? I'm sure you can discuss that. I believe that it is a wise thing for Norwegian citizens to participate in Norwegian democracy, and Swedish citizens to participate in Swedish democracy, and that we cannot have a Norwegian citizen who is Swedish Council of States, who can have different views and who can also influence Norwegian elections through active participation here. To a discussion that has been little progress: what we have been contacted about by many actors concerns the discussion of social control. It's an advantage for us that people, when they settle in our country, take the full and the whole step. In the organisation to which Jan Bøhler referred instead, NOK, it has been among the most obvious female speakers that it will be a great advantage when you are pressured, for example. to marry someone from their own country, to become a Norwegian citizen fully and completely, and also to become Norwegian nationals. In a conflict situation, it will be easier for him to take his child back to his or her native country, and it will be more difficult for his or her mother to return the child to her own country. That is a theoretical problem, but it is a real problem for those who are in it. So here's a lot of principles. I fully agree with Erna Solberg in her opposition to dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e590	Child Abduction is a very serious matter for those concerned. I have been in several cases where children who only have Norwegian citizenship have been abducted, and where Norwegian authorities have not managed to get the child home. I think that those who are now opposed to dual citizenship overwhelm this argument quite strongly, because it is that several of these children, if they do not acquire Norwegian citizenship in addition to their own, will be in an even worse situation. But the main point is that this is not solved by the provisions of the Civil Code. I hear this undertone all the time, especially from the Center Party, that migrating, moving on in a modern, globalized world, is a little suspicious – it's a little scary. People who do this can kind of suspect a little bit for anything. I would like to remind you of what the representative Tonning Riise said: terrorist acts have been committed on Norwegian soil. He was a Norwegian national. When I became a Norwegian citizen, no one demanded a vow of allegiance from me. That is what we do of those who are going to acquire a Norwegian citizenship. I think this with loyalty to several countries is referred to in a somewhat strange way. This is not about having loyalty to a dictatorship, women's oppression or sharialover. You have loyalty to a family, maybe, to a place you're happy in – that's, some roots somewhere. Many of these people have even escaped from this, but have some roots anyway. You cannot read from citizenship a loyalty to the country – just as it is proven that there are more people who have not had loyalty to their Norwegian citizenship that they have acquired at birth. It is not possible to deal with the problems addressed by the representative through this law. Migration has historically been freedom. The Nordics have used it to a very great extent. And we like that those who have migrated still call themselves Norwegians. It's not worse for others, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e605	I think through my own thoughts, I've come to the conclusion that the sum of one's identities can be greater than one hundred percent. I have soon lived longer in Northernland than in my place of birth – it doesn't exist anymore, but Trondelag. I perceive myself as a northerner, but also as a trouser. I think it's possible to perceive itself as both a Northman and a Pakistani. That may be the background to the fact that there are so many people who have engaged in this matter, because I think there are quite a few people who experience the consequences of the legislation we have. One of the concerns we have had in the Workers' Party has been that it may be a misunderstanding as to who has engaged, and what voices have been heard, because we are not quite sure that the weakest parties and those who have the least resources, who are also affected by the legislation we have in the field, have been able to promise this and be heard. That's part of the background of what we've been worried about. The case is referred to as ‘the settlement of the principle of one citizenship’. And that's a little bit of a strange debate we have, because we have a little bit of a principle approach to this. I also think that's one of the weaknesses of the proposition. It slightly discusses the principal aspects of it, but we're very concerned about the consequences. There may be another expression that the consequences affect many people, and many of them have been affected here today. What happens to consular assistance for those who need it, who have dual citizenship? What are the consequences of this to prevent negative social control? Will it weaken the fight against crime? The safety authorities are concerned, because although they may support the proposal, it has consequences. The protection obligation has also been lifted today. I think we should recognise that this has consequences. I can reassure the Council of State that at least the Labour Party will be united with those who are willing to fight negative social control. It's a very essential thing to grab hold of. If we can find common ground in that area, we're for that. Let me end by saying that even though I am a minority, I don't think Dovre will fall after this debate or this decision in the Stortinget today, but I think we all – and I would also ask the government to do so – should recognise that with the new legislation too there will be a number of practical challenges that we have to follow up and that we have to try to overcome. We have made a proposal to do so on the basis of continuing with one citizenship. It might as well have been promoted as a consequence of what is being adopted today, where we get an opening for two, but there will be consequences that we have to remedy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e618	This is an incredibly important case of principle, but it's also a big case based on the number. I referred to a response from the Council of State Sanner in a letter to me on 29 April of this year, where it appears that, during the ten-year period 2007-2017, dual citizenship was granted to 69 235. No dual citizenship has been granted for 65,635. So that's about 135,000. In the government's answer, it says that the number is probably higher. Interestingly, the Council of State does not now say why this fact is not disclosed in the debate. The representative Tonning Riise says that in this room there are more with double citizenship. Yeah, that might be it. I don't know. It would have been of public interest who has double citizenship here. That is a matter that the public should know. The Police Directorate has discussed this, and on page 20 of the proposal it says: ‘The Ministry agrees with the Police Directorate that it may be appropriate to consider whether it should be an obligation for individuals to notify the acquisition of new citizenship in addition to Norwegian citizenship. An autonomous obligation to notify the new citizenship may be an appropriate means of ensuring that the new citizenship is also registered.’;» But in the same section, the department concludes that one will not go into it. Why is it not such a obligation to notify? It is in the public interest that it is. Finally, it is emphasised that abolishing the principle of one citizenship is in line with social development, by increasing people's travel and finding work, their own interests and ties abroad, and that is probably right. But it is also a hoax that comes with the load. This proposal is consistent with a development in which the interests of the Community and the authorities of the Community are weakened by the addition of power to rules beyond the control of the elected people. The first Act of 1888 was motivated by the need to strengthen the Community's capacity, i.e.: the country's ability to govern its own country. In the big debate on the bill, Johan Sverdrup's government and the representatives of the Left and Right were unanimous about this. Today, 140 years later, the representatives of the Left and the Right are united in wanting to put in place a system that will weaken the security and condition of the community between Norwegian citizens and weakening the democratic Norwegian governance and political culture. The Government has not even explored the possibilities for such effects of its proposal, and the representatives of the two political parties are still opposed to the opposition's proposal that this should be investigated before the government's proposals are adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e637	This is a very fundamental debate, and what we have to think about when we're dealing with legislation is the consequences of 10, 20, 30 and 40 years. Of course, it is a challenge for us as a country if a Norwegian citizen participates in the military forces of another country. If you don't see it as a challenge, you're blind. Of course, if another country's military forces with Norwegian citizens go to a military attack on another country, it is a challenge for the Norwegian government. We know how much resources we spend helping Norwegian citizens home if they get into some unfortunate situation. I think that part of the debate has been too little raised and discussed, and then the emotional argument is used against – that I believe that that person is loyal or disloyal. I have no reason to say that someone is disloyal. But it can be very challenging for us as countries when that kind of situation arises, and it can be challenging for individuals if you are a citizen of two countries, Norway and another, and the two countries are in conflict, because you have rights and obligations in two countries. We believe that the system we have had has been neat and good, that it is possible – and it is possible in very many countries – to make a choice, and that you then choose to become a Norwegian citizen and say no to the other citizenship. You can have the same amount of feelings and identity connected to the other country even if you're not a national of both countries. I have a conservative approach to politics. Why change a system that works well? This is what the Right has often forgotten in recent years — the conservative approach that the Right has taken before, where a gradual and knowledge-based change has taken place. Now it seems like it's the change for the change that's the goal. I very much agree with Erna Solberg in her argument about this matter. When she was a municipal minister in 2001–2005, she was clearly in the discussion of dual citizenship and had several arguments. At the National Court meeting, she was clear in her argument and raised the loyalty challenge it could be for Norway if a Norwegian citizen participated in the military forces of another country. I find it strange that the Right does not choose to place more emphasis on what the Prime Minister says in this discussion than on this slightly emotional debate that has been about double citizenship lately. We also know that far into the Progress Party there is really strong resistance, but then it's important to get this through to give a concession to the Left. Instead of going into the principal aspects and listening to the most experienced politicians in both the Progress Party and the Right, who share the views of the Centre Party, one has been more concerned with drawing the Left in this matter to show that the Left too is capable of getting something when they are in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e651	It is touching to hear the strong need of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party to agree on a total right from 2001 to 2005. It can be exciting to see if it will also apply in other things we get in this hall eventually. Are there challenges with people who have dual citizenship? Yes, it is. We also have these challenges today, but they are well managed in the different situations in which they apply. A safety assessment is carried out on all those entering the Norwegian military forces, and only Norwegian nationals are being denied because they may have other family ties yet which may pose a safety challenge. This is handled today. The representative, Lundtigen, says that this proposal will weaken the level playing field. No, it will not, rather on the contrary. That inequality is there today because the exceptional cases have become largely the main rule. What we're doing here today is, of course, introducing equal pay. People who qualify for dual citizenship are given greater equality for the law. When I first stand here, I would also like to make some comments on the post from the representative of Bohemia. He expresses a strong fear that dual citizenship could lead to conflicts of loyalty between Norway and countries with values such as culture of honor and forcibility and views on democracy, freedom of expression, etc. which we don't share. That challenge is essentially what we have in the practice of dual citizenship today. As mentioned in previous speeches here today, people from Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea and Somalia are mainly granted dual citizenship today, while those who are discriminated against – if they are to use that term – may rather be people who have family ties, or who work in the United States or other parts of Europe, who are being refused, or who do not qualify for double citizenship today at all. If there are European, liberal fundamental values the representative of Bohemia is most concerned about, it should speak rather to vote in favour of this matter here today than to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e664	What makes me take the floor again is the representative from the Central Party, the Battle of Vedum, who is problematic about this with defence and more citizenship. I've been in Norwegian defence for over 20 years, and I've worked with people with passports and multiple citizenships several times. There are no challenges to this, this is a known issue for society already today. There are very many citizens today who have carried out their duty of protection and who carry out their duty of protection, with dual citizenship. The defence law that we already have today, which is valid today, manages this for the Norwegian community. It also follows from Section 6 of the Defence Act that Norwegian citizens who are also nationals of another country are subject to protection in Norway as long as they are resident here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e671	I would like to comment on the posts of the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, where he presents it as if this had almost been forced through – across the will of others in the government parties. Although I would like to think that the Left had that kind of power in some cases, I also think it is important to stress that there has been a thorough investigation. Many of the arguments put forward against dual citizenship have lost their validity, as the investigation has shown that they are not relevant. The representative refers to debates in the early 2000s – I think most people in this room know that the world has changed quite strongly since the early 2000s. That is also what this matter is really about: updating a code based on today's situation. I believe that both the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party are able to explain very well why they are supporting this matter today. I also think it is important to stress that even though the Left is very happy that we get this change, this is not a matter that has one-sided positive or one-sided negative sides. There's a lot of advantages to making this change. There could also be some disadvantages, and we have to keep looking at how we can deal with them. But for us, it's quite clear that the benefits are clearly in majority here. We're red tape, we're simplifying, we're making it easier for the North to live abroad, and we're making it easier for people with a different citizenship to become Norwegian. We believe it is a strength for democracy, it is a strength for international cooperation – and it is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e678	Interestingly, other parties, such as the Center Party and the Workers' Party, have so much need to clarify what the Progress Party really thinks about this matter. We know very well what we think about this matter, and why we mean it. As the debate has shown, it will be easier to avoid citizenship by punishing serious crimes such as terrorism. It's going to be easier to prevent terror. It will be easier to exclude citizenship once it has been obtained by providing incorrect information, and it will be easier to provide assistance in child abduction cases if you have double citizenship versus just a foreign citizenship. There are four very important reasons why we are in favour, and it is not right as it was said that people like Sylvi Listhaug voted against this at the National Assembly of the Progress Party. An important element that has not been mentioned so much is that the same strict conditions continue to underpin the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship. There is then a requirement to clarify the ID, and therefore a good part of the issues where there are problems with the ID that have been mentioned have been removed. A certificate of good conduct shall also be required in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship. If you had started touching these things -- yes, then I would have agreed with a lot of the arguments that are coming. But as long as we ensure that there are high demands and strict criteria for getting a Norwegian citizenship, this will not be a problem. And the main reason for this is that those at risk of social control, for child abduction cases, will be very little affected by the new provision – because this is mainly practiced in the same way today. So then we're left with the fact that it'll be easier to avert terror and other things we don't like, and that the Nordics who have strong loyalty to two different countries, which is no problem, will get a easier everyday life. There are then quite a number of things that are entirely in line with the ideology of the Progress Party, and that is why we support this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e691	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e696	The party leader, Siv Jensen, does not agree with the representative, Mr Engen-Helgheim. She and the Vice-Chairs voted against this at the Country Meeting of the Progress Party, and it shows that they had a wiser approach. The representative of Ove Trellevik tried to invalidate what I said about protection, but there were quotes from Erna Solberg. I can quote again: ‘It is challenging for us that a Norwegian national participates in the military forces of another country.’ Erna Solberg has said that, and it is very wise to say so by Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Unfortunately, she did not get the Right Country Meeting at this, but it was one of her main arguments to be against. Then I also see that there are, of course, advantages and disadvantages of all things, and it will also be here, but if we look at near European history, for example. When President Erdogan tried to influence the Turkish elections by campaigning in Germany, the German authorities said no – they did not want Erdogan to run a campaign in Germany. Then Erdogan said, "If I want to, I'll come tomorrow." I'm coming, and if you don't let me in or not let me talk, I'm rebelling. So this can cause unrest if there are too large populations who have double citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e716	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e721	The representative Tonning Riise is trying to say that one introduces sobriety here. Yes, sir. Now everyone wants to have a double citizenship, so in comparison with those who didn't have it earlier, it's gonna be a bit of a shame. But my point was that those who have only one citizenship, and who have duties and rights in one country, are not jealous of those who are now given duties and rights in several countries. That's the whole heart of the matter. So to the representative Melby from the left: there are no relevant counter-arguments, she says. That's wrong. It has not been determined following the investigation manual. Then we have Engen-Helgheim who says in a very good way here that what happens now, that one takes away the principle of one citizenship, is in line with the ideology of the Progress Party. I hope that the representative is very clear on it in the streets and argues in the discussions ahead, because there is at the heart of the liberalist policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e730	To Engen-Helgheim: He said that what was said about what the party leadership in the Progress Party meant at the national meeting was not right. I've just looked up in the media's reports from that national meeting, for example. from ABC News on 6 May 2017, which has been referred to several places. It says in the title: ‘The National Assembly of the People’s Party despite party leader Siv Jensen, Sylvi Listhaug and both Vice-Chairs’ – i.e. Per Sandberg and Ketil Solvik-Olsen – ‘and voted to allow dual citizenship’. I wasn't at that country meeting, I've just read the records from there in the media. That's the basis for what I said about it. With regard to the argument being used that there are some countries that have this unculture with forced marriage, blasfemilover, etc., and that have bound their citizens up to be citizens there, I understand that there is a point, but at the same time there are some countries that have that unculture, that have not that practice. Some of the countries, such as Somalia, do not have a functioning state service, so that they can obtain travel papers or travel documents and in practice experience Somali nationals when going out and travelling, etc. So there's no point in strengthening the problem, I mean, by introducing this as a principle for everyone because you have that problem with some countries, which also don't have to last forever. An example of a problem we get is about leaving children abroad. According to a report from the Institute for Societal Research, it was approx. 3460 children left abroad at the time they carried out their studies. It was over 1 400 in Somalia. They're in different types of schools, but some of them live, as the NRK has documented, under very bad conditions in Koran schools in Somalia. One of the main instruments that the government has talked about in this connection is to suspend their Norwegian passports, so that they cannot travel to Somalia. When I ask these families, they don't know that they can really be Somali nationals, and at least they don't have Somali travel documents and passports, so they can travel to Somalia with their children. So they travel on Norwegian passports. When the government then says that they will withdraw their passports when they get danger signals that they can travel with children to Qur'an schools in Somalia, the instrument is weakened when you introduce double citizenship and get a greater opportunity to pick up passports from the countries to which you are going in any case. I am aware that this is complex, because – as I said – there are some states from which they will be able to obtain passports, etc., but the instrument that the government is talking about is weakening, and that also mentions Oslo Police District in its hearing opinion. So I wish you would realize that this case is more complex than what you're giving the impression of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e748	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e754	I do not know who it is that has said that the matter cannot be complex. I feel that everyone has seen it. The example now mentioned by the representative, Bohemia, was just Somalia – one of those countries that does not free its citizens from citizenship, that is to say they consider them to be citizens, although they may not even be. So it's a bad example that this is going to get worse. I hear that someone calls it being a double-citizenship liberal. I see it's liberal. SV lives very well with it, because we're a liberal party, a modern party. In a modern world, we have other challenges. For example, the representative of the Battle Force Vedum mentioned: The elections in Germany, where Erdogan came and wanted to run a campaign. But he could have done that if they weren't German citizens. They could have been Turkish citizens. So this is a phenomenon that we're going to see. The election campaign will be conducted in social media, etc. If we have dual citizenship or not, we're not going to affect exactly such a relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e765	The representative Kristian Toning Riise has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e770	I just need to point out that there has been a strange need for the Workers' Party and the Centre in this debate to point out what the party leaders in the Progress Party and the Right have meant in internal discussions at national meetings many and a few years ago respectively. For my part, I live very well with being part of a party where party democracy rules, where parties can also change their eyesight sometimes, and where sometimes the national meeting disagrees with the party leader. But I understand that there might be something less common in other, mentioned parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e775	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e791	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e800	It was once – when we go back a couple of hundred years – that you had to have permission to travel domestically if you were usually mortal and wanted to move from municipality to municipality. It's not like that anymore. We're not going to talk about exactly the kind of restrictions today, we're going to talk about what Storting is going to treat and not need to treat. The proposal put forward here is that border adjustments between municipalities should be submitted to the Stortinget for decision when there is disagreement between the municipalities concerned, and Section 6 of the Division Act is the subject. I will explain in my article the views of the government parties, and then I assume that the other parties explain their views. Border adjustments are by definition less extensive issues than sharing issues. The fact that there is therefore a greater degree of delegation and a simpler procedure is, of course, based on the desire for an effective and rational procedure in the public domain. Border adjustment cases are linked to the fact that a smaller proportion of the population of a municipality is practically closer to the service provision in the neighbouring municipality than to that provided in its own municipality. There may be travel distances or such things that apply. Of course, for those concerned, these are important matters, and they often call for great commitment. In these cases, according to the law of division, the Stortinget has given authority to the Ministry as its top executive body. The preparation of the case has been added to the State which, on the basis of given criteria and not least good local knowledge, shall provide a recommendation. Here we are talking about a balance between what may be perceived as the most important thing, namely the consideration of the citizens concerned, and an overall assessment of what is important for the individual municipalities concerned. The size should, as the country's highest decision-making body, and on the basis of the idea that we form the basis for the distribution of power and parliamentary tradition, make essentially decisions on the state budget and give overall leadership through legislation. Decisions on individual cases should be sought to limit and reserve the cases of heavy cases of national importance or involving significant economic efforts by the State. The size should have a high threshold for what we should do, and limit the treatment of individual items that require a more local kind of knowledge than the Stortinget could naturally engage in. The exact extent to which the threshold should go for what is to be presented to the Storting may, of course, be the subject of discussion. In this case, the proposers in practice invite the Storting to participate at a very detailed level. For the government parties it seems more rational that we keep the threshold where it is today defined in the law of division, and the division of labour we have today between magnification, government and administration has proved to work well. We will therefore vote against the proposed representative. I take this up with me the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e825	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e830	When we talk about where we live, we're not just talking about the postal code or the physical location, the geographic location, we're also talking about which community we belong to. There are often similarities between the municipality as a administrative unit and a geographical demarcation, but that is also the name of a community. I think that's one of the reasons why issues relating to the movement of a limit, and thus the movement of people between different units, arouse so much commitment. They learned that when they were working on border adjustments and municipal mergers in the 1960s. I've met people who are still talking about the dramatic consequences that border adjustments have had for their lives and lives, and who think it's still pretty strong. And that's what we've been in discussions about local and regional reform in the last few years. I can agree with the case rapporteur that a limit adjustment is a less case than a limit change, but I do not buy the premise that has been made, that this depends only on local knowledge, and that the right way to grasp local knowledge is to leave it to the County and Government. On the contrary, we are not talking here about lifting all border adjustments into the Storting, we are talking about the cases where local knowledge is opposed to local knowledge – where there is no local consensus about what is a wise way to adjust this. In this way it is possible to argue that it is more rational to do so in the way that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party stand for, just to raise to the country's legislative assembly to debate where the frontier should go when making these balances where local conditions are also opposed. So I'm going to end by saying that yes, we can agree that the Storting should deal with the big issues. But the big things can't always be measured in money. They can't always be measured by what kind of thing it is. Another way to measure it is just to deal with things that mean a lot to people. It's also a big deal even though it may not affect so many people, or it may not affect so much money. I think that this House, this Parliament, has a very proud tradition for that. One of the things that characterizes us is that we are one of the few parliaments in the world – I don't know anyone else, so I'm taking the chance to say it – which is not organized party-wise, but with the county bench, that's where we come from. That's why I just think I'll remind the representative Thommes how all the power in this room can still have a significant validity, and that it can't be an argument that the matter is too small for the Storing to deal with it, when it's obviously so important to so many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e841	The proposers point out that in a number of relevant cases, there is disagreement between municipalities about the transfer of parts of a municipality. There is not only disagreement between municipalities, I will now claim. Experience shows that even within a municipality there may be considerable disagreement. These matters often have one thing in common: that it is impossible to satisfy everyone. The majority believe that border adjustments which have a significant impact on the operation of the remaining parts of the municipality should be determined by Stortinget if there is disagreement between the municipalities. The Progress Party does not support the proposed legislative amendment. I feel reasonably confident that I, as Akershus’ local representative, do not have the local insight that a border adjustment in a completely different place in the country requires in order to achieve a better result than what the parties involved today are landing on. Today's division of labour between the State, the Government and the State in these matters is appropriate in the view of the Progress Party, and despite the high level of conflict in many places, there is a division of labour that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e854	The partitioning law states that the decision on border adjustments is taken by the King of State Council. Since the limit of what is described as border adjustment has been extended, such changes may have enormous consequences for all residents of the municipality. The centre party believes that processes related to the division and border adjustment are issues of great importance to the community and to the people affected. In cases where significant parts of the population of the municipality are transferred in border adjustment cases, there will be significant consequences for the municipality concerned and, of course, also for the inhabitants of the rest of the municipality. It will affect the municipality in areas such as economics, municipal services, infrastructure, etc. The cut-off and cut-off limits are almost erased. When even cases there are 25 pst. by the inhabitants and 40 pst. We're starting to have a definition problem. The consequences of border adjustments may be so great that the rest of the municipality will have to endure as its own municipality. The impact on the population who are left in the municipality and who get a so-called border adjustment, or in practice a division, can be enormous. That's why it's quite paradoxical when feedback is that the county officials involve the residents to be moved over, but they don't involve the rest of the inhabitants of the municipality, which may have far more consequences for them than for those who stay over. Some claim that it may appear that some statesmen consider border adjustments to be a break-up bar in order to achieve more community mergers by recommending border adjustments contrary to the municipality’s own decision. This will make small municipalities even smaller, and eventually it will be difficult to survive as their own municipality. I would say that border adjustment cases can be a hidden form of coercion. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the decision of the Storting: ‘The government asks that good and voluntary processes should be the starting point for changes in the municipal structure. Any combination of municipalities in the period 2017 to 2021 shall be based solely on voluntary activity.’;» I would like to refer to hearing opinions that, in the case of disagreement as to whether this is a matter of border adjustment or sharing of the municipality, equal treatment of divisional and border adjustment cases could have contributed to reduced disagreements. The central party is therefore promoting a proposal for a representative in which we ask the government to propose that Section 6 of the partitioning law be amended in order to introduce a provision that border adjustment matters should be submitted to the Stortinget for decision when there is disagreement between the municipalities concerned. And I'm just saying, that's just where there's disagreement between the municipalities. The majority say in a note that there is a high level of local understanding required in border adjustment cases. I totally agree with that. But it is when the government checks the local insight, that we believe that matters have to go to Stortinget. Feedback suggests that some ‘major-brother’ municipalities wanting to join with less neighbouring municipalities are now actively working to subvert some of the neighbouring municipalities. In this way, they can force community mergers even if the smaller municipalities have said no. If that's true, it's not good at all. And it is extra bad if such decisions can be made without the Storting having dealt with the matter. Then I have to say that I am very surprised that the Christian People's Party is the party that goes the farthest in the argument to reject the proposal. At the same time as they note that the issue can be addressed to the Storting by making representation proposals for conversion if a decision is taken which is considered to be very unfavourable, they also warn against using that option. There are completely new tones from a party that I have previously considered to be a defender of municipal autonomy. Here I must say that I am disappointed in the Christian People's Party. The centre party will not weaken the municipal right of self-determination. State overrun of local democracy is not good. But here, obviously, the government parties and the Christian People's Party are of a completely different formation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e887	Border adjustments, as several have said before me, can have major consequences, and the boundary between what is a border adjustment, and what is a division, can be difficult to see. After all, we have some years behind us now where we have had a government that has been very busy for the coercion of both municipalities and counties, and that wants this to continue. That is a fair political position, although many of us disagree with it. We have also made the Storting decide that this will be done on a voluntary basis in the future – it has become the majority. I have been dealing with some such issues in Stortinget before, quite many years ago, and it is not because these matters are particularly easy, we believe that they should now come back to Stortinget where there is local disagreement, but simply because such border adjustments can be used to change the municipal map by promoting their desire to force more municipal mergers. It is true that it may be difficult with regard to local knowledge, but you get it when dealing with such a case. I have registered that there are many in the hall who have joined municipalities without having been in, I think, coerced. I am not so sure that the local knowledge behind all the decisions was entirely present. We have considered this matter quite carefully, because it is clear that this can result in more cases for Stortinget, which is not easy to decide at all. Someone might think it was just as good that the government made that decision, so we didn't have to sit with that responsibility. However, when I choose to land on this, it is precisely because the local disagreements about these issues can reveal factors that make such a case. the part of the municipality that is to remain as a residual municipality, at least in many things I have been away from, feels that they are not being heard, and that there can be a unit that is not impelling further. This means that there may be some kind of cape-land game, which will eventually force municipal mergers that may not have the best local starting point, but where there are some local interests that have gone through. Border problems are always linked to both local and county borders. I, who has been a state politician in Hedmark, know all about it. We have a branch called Breuttum, which is close to Lillehammer, and there have been a lot of conflicts, especially where students go to high school. There will always be someone who lives close to such boundaries, and who has stronger belongings somewhere else than just where they are. How these limits are now to be drawn can be very crucial for the future functioning of a local authority. Therefore, we believe that where there is local disagreement, the matter should be addressed to Stortinget – in particular, as said, because we have been in a process of both voluntary mergers and coercive mergers of municipalities for a long time now. Therefore, the Storting should assume an additional responsibility in these matters in the future, so that through border adjustments we do not establish entities that are too thin to continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e900	Proposalers are entitled to have a significant impact on both the municipalities concerned and the citizens concerned, both those who are subject to border adjustments and, in some cases, those who remain in the rest of the municipality. But the Christian People's Party believes equally fully that the proposed legislative change is not appropriate. Border adjustments require a high degree of local understanding and involve the stakeholders at a detailed level. We therefore agree with the government that today's division of labour between the State, the Government and the State in these matters is appropriate, and that, despite the high level of conflict, many places are a division of labour that has proven to work well. The centre party had a visit to the Christian People's Party where the key was municipal self-determination. Here you actually have to point out that there is disagreement locally, and you will get two views into the Stortinget. It's not certain that this hall, all the parties, totally agrees on what comes in then, and then we might get a situation – as we see in another case here today – that you can just appeal to the decision, and then we have it going on that way. Nor shall the majority be an over-communist regime. We will probably see more municipal mergers in the years that are coming, and in parentheses I have to say that I stand for them to be voluntary. In the wake of changes in the municipal structure, there will be a number of cases where it is advisable to transfer parts of a municipality to the neighbouring municipality in order to achieve consistency between the housing and work area, the use of services by residents, etc., etc. The size should stick to the overall issues and still allow it to be kept at all times by the government in charge of border adjustments. Of course, the government at all times would be aware that if it were to consider making a limit adjustment which is wholly unreasonable to the national Parliament, there is an opportunity to review it through a proposal for a representative. And no, we don't encourage it or think that this instrument should be used in outlaws, but it's lying there, and it has an effect in itself. We therefore believe that the proposal from the Central Party must be rejected, and recommend it in the vote of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e913	The proposers wish to amend Section 6 of the Dividend Act so that matters relating to the adjustment of municipal boundaries will be brought before the Stortinget for decision when there is disagreement between the municipalities concerned. It is the government's view that border adjustments should primarily be aimed at adapting the municipal boundaries to existing housing and labour markets and the use of municipal services by citizens. A limit adjustment should, for example: provide a shorter route for residents or a faster path to democratic influence on the service they use. Let me first point to the fundamental difference between divisional matters and border adjustment matters. Division by division law § 3 means that a municipality is divided into two or more new municipalities, or that a municipality is divided and the various parts are added to other municipalities. These are intrusive issues that lead to the cessation of the existence of the municipality in question. Divisional matters are treated in the same way as merger cases. If there is no local consensus, only the Storting can decide on sharing. By local agreement, decisions may be taken by the King. In border adjustment cases, today's municipal borders change, but the municipalities concerned do not cease to exist. Such cases are therefore much less relevant to the municipalities. Section 6 of the Division Act states that the King makes decisions in all cases concerning border adjustment between municipalities, even where the municipalities disagree. This does not prevent the government, after a concrete assessment, from presenting border adjustment cases to the Stortinget for decision. As the Committee's member from the Christian People's Party points out, the Stortinget obviously has the opportunity to promote representative proposals and to ask the government to reverse its decision. This is the proxy system, although I hope that it will happen to the least possible extent, simply because it will create uncertainty for the municipalities and residents concerned if the Stortinget starts a process to change the outcome of a concrete border adjustment case after the Ministry has taken a decision on a case in which all the municipalities and residents concerned have been presented with their views. Local consensus is often very difficult to reach in relation to the adjustment of municipal borders. In most cases, the transferring municipality does not want to lose its inhabitants. I can understand that. Border adjustment matters also vary in size, and in many of the cases it is a smaller area and a few inhabitants. However, these are also issues where there is a need to address different local circumstances, such as: the use of public services, infrastructure, school circuits and other geographical conditions by citizens in order to make a decision. In smaller border adjustment cases where there is agreement between municipalities on the solution, the competence to take decisions has been delegated to the State if the borders do not affect a county border. The competence to take decisions in all other border adjustments has been delegated to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, i.e. decisions in major cases and all cases where there is no agreement between municipalities. An amendment to Section 6, as proposed by the representatives, would give the Storting the competence to take decisions in any border adjustment case with disagreement, i.e. Both big and small things. In my opinion, today's division of responsibilities between County, Department and Stortinget is the most appropriate. The ministry currently has several issues on border adjustment for treatment, and I therefore know very well the complexity of these kinds of cases. Finally, I would like to stress that I have a great understanding that it is going to be difficult for the municipalities concerned to lose their inhabitants. I believe, however, that it is a strength for local democracy that citizens who have a legitimate wish for border adjustment have a real opportunity to be dealt with by their desire to change the local border.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e934	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the fundamental considerations of the Council of State regarding the system of powers. Having clear rules on where decisions are actually made, so you know where to turn, is a contribution to better democracy and greater transparency. But that's precisely the authority that we're discussing today with the government, and on which proposals have been made to make a change, and that's the sovereign court that the Storting has on the basis that all power lies in this room. What is the basis for our thinking about the community merger and the discussion about it has been based on volunteering, and here we are discussing the cases of border adjustment where local agreement on what is the wise solution is not achieved. Then my question becomes, when the Council of State believes that today's system is the best: what makes the government better fit to decide these complex questions than the Storting would be?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e939	Firstly, I have not for a moment doubted the Sovereigns of the Great Britain to decide which powers the government should have at any time, and which we should not have. What I have explained is an appropriateness. I was very clear that the Stortinget in this proposal is going to have big and small cases, and I think in and of myself the case rapporteur well explained what the majority thinks should be the responsibility of the Stortinge, and what should be the government's. It is now that we are delegated powers in very many cases to carry out daily operations, so to speak, by Norway. There are big and small things here, very often disagreements, and there are very often disagreements between the inhabitants of a municipality. It's not always like there's a disagreement between the municipalities, but there's a disagreement between the inhabitants of a municipality, and then we have a system where we hear everyone, we ask the local government, we ask residents, we ask the County Council, and then we make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e944	I have not claimed that the Council of State challenges the Grand Duchy’s sovereigns correctly – as in general, it is not wise for governments to do. But what I asked was, why is the government in these complex issues better fit than the Storting to make the decision? Here it will still be that one has to expect that there will be a prepared case for Stortinget with a possible recommendation, because I agree with the Council of State's statement that the inhabitants must have a right to have their wish to change the municipality assessed. But the question here is, who is the best fit to make the decision? What makes the government, the King's council, better fit to make the final decision than the elected representatives of the people when local agreement on what is the right solution is not reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e949	But I don't have a moment of doubt about the fitness of the Great One. That's not what's going on here, that's not what's been my argument. So it's an appropriate question. This isn't sharing, it's not merging stuff. This is about moving a geographical boundary based on concrete assessments in each case. Then it's an appropriate question I've answered from the government. But it is up to Stortingen to assess which powers you want to give and not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e954	In the setting, the members of the government parties and the Christian People's Party write: ‘These members will point out that border adjustment issues require a high degree of local understanding and involve the stakeholders at a detailed level.’ In the reply, the Council of State said, "We're asking the citizens. I see that as a truth with modifications, because the feedback I have received is that they ask the citizens who are to be moved over, but no one asks the rest of the inhabitants of the municipality what consequences they think this will have for those who are left. As far as local involvement is concerned, I believe that the local authority has the greatest possible degree of local insight. Does the Council agree with me on that? And does the Council of State agree with me that all residents of a municipality will be affected by a greater border adjustment? There may be school closures, there may be structural changes and at least a much worse economy in what's left of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e966	First, I strongly disagree with the description that not all residents are heard, and that the local authorities are not heard. In most cases – everyone, as far as I can think – we know what the local government thinks about a matter. Very often, the local government is represented by a majority of the population. You could have done this very easily, you could say that the local government decided – you could say that if it was appropriate. This has not been done, because this would lead to the minority in a municipality – but the majority in a geographical area, very often a large majority, perhaps over 90 pst. in a demarcated area, which wishes to move, which is associated, using the service — would never be heard. That is why we are listening to the local authorities. We listen to the people, the vast majority of things are based on citizens' initiatives. We have a meeting with the people involved. We have met with all the rapporteurs who have asked for it – of course we have – and very often we go out and visit the requested area. So there's a thorough procedure on the part of the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e971	I do not doubt that the government will listen to the local government, but the feedback I have received is that the County Council would like to have a survey, a community involvement in the area that wants to move. The inhabitants of the rest of the municipality are not involved in any other way than that of course they are represented by the local government. I have myself asked the County of More and Romesdal about Gemenes, if it really is that the rest of the inhabitants of Gemenes are not asked in a population survey. The consequences may be greater for them than for those to move over. My question is: does the Council of State believe that it is natural that all citizens are equally involved? The consequences may be the same for those who remain, as for those who are to be moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e978	The inhabitants of a demarcated area of a building have no representative body. It has the municipality as such – and the statesmen. I know well the local authorities' position in these matters, because they are dealt with by the local council, which is the body that represents the entire municipality. The county officials also focus on what the local government means, and there are many examples of border adjustment issues that we now have to deal with, where the county has just focused on what the local government, that is, on what the rest of the municipality, means, rather than what the residents of the demarcated area mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e983	I think the exchange of lines that was now shows some of the problem: it has not been ensured that those who remain in – let's call it the rest of the municipality, are not heard in the same way as those who are to be moved. The local government represents everyone, but some residents are allowed to express their opinion. It's okay, it's just supposed to be missing, but it should all get it. It's not like anyone's never heard, there's someone who's being heard, and maybe a larger majority who's not being heard. Since the question boils down to who is to take the assessment of the appropriateness pointed out by the Council of State — whether it should be the Storting or whether it should be the Government. Why isn't the Storting equally suitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e988	Now I have repeatedly said that the Storting is of course suitable for making decisions in all cases. You can in principle revoke all the powers you've given, but that's not how we do it. We have a division of labour. And then I totally disagree, the majority is heard through municipal government, and it is that very often the County will recommend the solution that the majority of the municipality of discharge wants, because it is largely such that the municipality of discharge does not want to give up an area. What I'm experiencing is that you're critical of the process, but that's not what we're dealing with today. We're dealing with who's going to make the final decision on a case. This must be due to the same procedure, the same assessment theme, as the government does. Then it is simply a question of appropriateness, where it is up to the Storting to decide which powers we should or should not have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e993	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1001	In my home state, More and Romesdal, we have a municipality, Gemnes, which I will use as an example in this case. There the County has gone in to recommend border adjustment – or, in my view, sharing – of the municipality of Gemnes. In meeting with the ministry, they were told by the coordinator that this is a limit adjustment, even if the consequences are large. For Gems, the limit is at 25 pst. by the inhabitants and 40 pst. of the area disappeared from the municipality. The impact on the municipality will be significant in areas such as municipal services, infrastructure and not least the economy. The ability to provide good services to the rest of the population within these frameworks is considered to be weak. In the decision-making process from the municipality, it is stated that the municipality is aware that a division formally means that a municipality is divided and the two parts added to two different municipalities. The partitioning law stipulates that the division of municipalities is to be determined by the Storting and the border adjustment of the King. The missing definition of border adjustment, and what is division, is itself problematic. In the case of Gemennes, it is initially not a question of splitting, but of limit adjustment. The practical consequence of the requested limit adjustment may mean that the rest of the Gemnes cannot continue as a self-contained municipality. It means, in my view, that it's not a limit adjustment, but a division of the municipality. In their case, this will result in the residual municipality being unable or insufficiently equipped with resources to continue as its own municipality. If this happens now, the municipality has not been given the consequences for the remaining 75 pst. by the inhabitants. The different legislations on border adjustment and sharing involve cases where there is a small degree of preferential discrimination between municipalities. The democratic aspect, the potential to influence, should be sidelined in border adjustment and sharing issues, as the consequences of a border adjustment may include all the inhabitants of a municipality. Border adjustment cases where there is disagreement must, according to the Central Party, be dealt with by the Stortinget. On that basis, the Centre Party in Document 8 has put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 6 of the Breakdown Act in order to introduce a provision requiring cases of border adjustment to be brought before the Grand Duchy for a decision in the event of disagreement between the municipalities concerned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1015	I think the Storting should take over what we are actually discussing in this matter. We're talking about border adjustment, but what is it? Well, it's about moving a limit that's been around for generations, and where it can have great consequences for those that it touches. These are the issues in which there is no agreement between the parties concerned. It can have major consequences related to infrastructure, related to local economy, related to the closure of schools, for example, which I myself know from my own municipality of origin, Sorum. I live a few kilometers away from the border of the municipality of Nes, where there is a current border adjustment case between the communities of Auli and Rånåsfoss, and where there is no local agreement between the municipalities concerned. Then the question is, what should a person do in such a case? Who should have the last word when one does not agree locally on what to do? The government councils and representatives of the government parties clearly believe that then it is the State and the government that are most suitable to take such a decision. That countyman is now County of Oslo and Akershus and is responsible for about 1.2 million inhabitants. If the government and government parties get their will later today, it will in future also be responsible for the whole of Buskerud and the whole of Eastfold, i.e. 1.8 million inhabitants. It is the local knowledge of a county that is responsible for an area from Hallingdal to Halden – local knowledge of all possible border adjustments. When the rapporteur says that there must be a high threshold and a heavy reason for going in – yes, it must definitely apply to the County. It must also apply to the government — if one is to override local communities in cases where there is local disagreement. Then it makes sense that we are elected by the people, who are ombudsmen, who can be cast by elections, who make decisions that have a major impact on the communities concerned, and not that there are bureaucrats and government representatives who make that decision. It is important in principle how these decisions are made. It is important that a first reason is for an applicant to find local consensus, and that the County enters into processes to seek local consensus. But where one does not find local agreement, it is the Greatness, we elected to the National Assembly of the country, who will have the last word.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1028	I have to comment on some of the posts that have come. Perhaps first to the representative, Mr. Greni, who makes this a matter of municipal autonomy. I find it difficult to see that this issue is actually challenging municipal autonomy. Municipal self-government does not increase or decrease by whether it is the government or the Stortinget that makes a decision that is not agreed and where municipal self-government does not achieve a good result. Then you can ask yourself if you believe that the debate in the main room will take greater care of the local interests and concerns that arise. It's a problem I let hang in the air. I've noticed, for example. that this debate has also dealt with issues related to suspicion that this should be used as part of coercion processes or to provoke aggregation through – as the representative Andersen called it – to capture land. In that case, there is also a problem I can say I do not recognize myself in. The assessment carried out by the State will include, inter alia: To a significant extent, it is to look at what moving some residents from a municipality means for the whole of the municipality from which they are moved. If you were to use this – let's say – instrumental to defuse some municipalities, I think quite quickly you would reveal it. This is not how these matters have been handled. These are things that come from a population group – in a branch or in a small area of a municipality – people who feel that they would have more practical benefit from belonging to the neighbouring municipality. That's what the engine is in this. You've also raised the question, what about the majority? It must be implicit in that one could then imagine that one would have a referendum, or that one would ask the rest of the population in the municipality. Well, you could probably consider that, but we have the tradition that when it comes to e.g. Target form, school circuits and that kind of thing, you have local polls or referendums in circles or churches, i.e. in smaller parts of a municipality. In that case, it would be to change the whole idea of whether a local government represents the interests of the municipality and the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1041	The issue we're discussing now is identity. It is about belonging, and it is in the utmost consistency about which services those remaining after any border adjustment can expect to get from the remaining municipality. I feel the need to take some of the posts that have been here today. There is no doubt that everyone initially has great respect for local democracy, but with regard to the individual adjustments, one does not necessarily want to take local democratic considerations into account. The representative Bransdal was about the Stortinget not to be a supremacy. But as the exchange of lines here showed, the Council of State believes that it is the government's good ability to be, because they – apparently – take everyone on board. We have to expect that if this amendment to the law goes through, the Stortinget will be presented with a case of thorough investigations and with the possibility of making the same assessments as the bureaucrats in the department, but as the representative of Kjöna Kjos of the Progress Party was so afraid that she, as a big-scale representative of Akershus, would not be able to do. It's a little bit special. So you have to say that some individual representatives, bureaucrats in the ministry and the government are going to be able to make these decisions and make a recommendation, but it wouldn't be the hall if it got the same basis. I find that remarkable. The experience out there is that this creates great debates. It creates big discussions, and it does something about the sense of belonging, but not least with expectations about what opportunities you have to move on as a common society and provide good services, such as: in the remaining municipality. It is a concern that this room should take on the highest seriousness, and one should also be able to take responsibility – in line with the government saying that they are able to take responsibility, this room should also be able to take responsibility for these difficult questions, which will present the challenges in the areas I have just mentioned. There are a number of proposals for border adjustment that are out there waiting for clarification and where the result can lead to major challenges for those who remain. If that is the result today, I regret that Stortingen does not have the opportunity to correct those errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1054	It was the post of former prime minister Olemic Thommessen that made me redraw. The representative, Thommessen, cast doubt on Storting's ability to enter and handle border adjustment cases, whether they will be treated in a better way than what is being done today through statesmen and government apparatus. What's going to be the starting point of the big thing? Of course, at the bottom is the process that has been carried out by the county councillors, but it is ultimately the Storting that can deal with the issue through open and broad processes and take a decision, which can hold open consultations with all the parties involved, which can deal with the committee and balance the various considerations, and which ultimately has a debate in this Chamber – open, so that the Norwegian people and the municipalities concerned can follow up on what kind of assessments are being made, and what kind of decisions are made at the end of the seventh and last. It's a much better process, which gives much greater transparency, which also provides a much better explanation for those who are affected by it afterwards, than getting a decision back from a county council or from the government. It can also lead to, when you know that it is the Storting that ultimately has to decide matters where there is disagreement, that the statesmen also go further to seek agreement between the parties involved, so that the cases do not go that far, or that the government is also the restraint of overcoming non-agreementing communities, because you know that if you try to overrun them, the matter will be dealt with in the Stortinget. It is a wise, democratic principle that it is we, as elected representatives, who – in matters relating to the inhabitants of Municipality-Norway – must finally make a decision. It is therefore appropriate to vote in favour of the proposal of the majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1063	It was the representative Thommessen who also made me draw for another post. I have to say that I am quite upset when he compares a survey on target form in a field with a cross-border adjustment survey. I'm going to claim and I'm pretty sure that if it's going to be determined in a school circle, it doesn't have a huge impact on the other schools in that municipality. But if there's one branch or the same circle that's going to decide if they're going to move to another municipality, it has huge consequences for the inhabitants of the rest of that municipality. The two situations are not at all comparable. Then the representative also said something about him doubting whether the Storting would be better able to attend to the local recording – at least that was how I understood it. I have to say that with today's big numbers, I am also very in doubt about it. We have received a relatively large number of local input in terms of municipal structure – they were not taken care of. Why does it have to go to the Stortinget? Well, when that matter comes to Stortinget, we have to be at the mercy of our voters after the decisions we make, and we want to do a thorough job to do this. The bureaucrats responsible for dealing with this matter do not have the same obligation towards the voters. In this respect, it is the expression that was used: yes, I get input from many municipalities where they now say that there are large-scale municipalities, larger municipalities, which would become the municipal centre of a possible new municipality, which is now trying to acquire parts of the neighbouring municipalities that have said no to community mergers, and that in this way they are forcing them to join the municipality. I hope the Council of State can confirm, if necessary, that it is that in most of the cases here now the branch to be moved from a small municipality to a large municipality, and that in many of the cases that are now under consideration, it will be demanding for the smallest municipality to remain as its own municipality, precisely because they will become even smaller, and that in the next round it may have the consequence that they feel compelled to apply for a municipal merger with a neighbouring municipality, because they no longer have the economy to get the operation around. We also see cases there, for example. is a small part – with the power plant – that disappears into a neighbouring municipality. It is clear that there are significant consequences for service production in the rest of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1072	I think these are difficult things no matter who's going to decide them, but the reason why SV has come to support this change in law is some of the things we've seen in recent years. I just want to refer to one of them, which is different from the one that the representative Greni was now up and talking about, because it's actually not just about small municipalities either. After treatment of Innst. 52 S for 2017-2018, cf. Document 8:2 S for 2017-2018, a majority at Stortinget decided to ask ‘the government does not continue work on the change of the border between Ski and Ås’, on the basis of clear decisions taken in Ås municipality. So the Storting had to go in and stop. What happened afterwards was that, however, the government asked to continue this process. I hope you find a solution here locally and agree. But the problem was that the government also ran into this case, where there was a great deal of local disagreement in the matter, and despite the fact that the Storting decided to stop, you did not. This is a bit of a reason why we believe that this should now be clarified, so that these matters come to Stortinget anyway. So without some of these experiences, you might have ended up at a different point of view. I would also like to point out briefly that there have been major challenges related to the municipality of Tysfjord – on where the boundaries will go for the division between two municipalities. It's a sharing case, but it's a similar case where the Stortinget has not been able to say anything about it, and where I think the Stortinget might have had a different view than the government has, precisely because it's about resources in different municipalities, and what was the premise for the decision that was made. It is not because I really want to sit and deal with these matters that I have chosen to land on this proposal, but because of the government's handling of these matters so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1083	Only a few things: firstly, it is not that you do not carry out community surveys or surveys throughout the municipality. There are several examples that have actually been done. So, in addition to hearing the local authorities, we have a meeting with all parties in one case before we decide it. It is an overall assessment that underpins our assessments. That's what people feel about identity, it's school circles, it's what services you use – it's a total assessment. It is not such that it is used as some form of aggregation. It is not such that this is used as a sharing case. It's about moving some geographic boundaries based on what the community wants, but also based on a total assessment. In many cases, we don't move the boundaries either. I have not heard the intention of the representative, Mr Greni, that the large municipalities in this country are now looking for parts of their neighbouring municipality. I haven't heard any examples of it, but we're dealing with the issues we get, and it's essentially -- with only one exception, I think -- based on a community initiative and not on a neighboring initiative. Nor are there bureaucrats in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation dealing with these matters. These matters are, of course, determined by political leadership and not by the government. The disagreements are also not settled by the statesmen; they contribute to informing and investigating the matter and making a recommendation to the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1094	It is my opinion that an epidemic has almost developed in Norway in connection with changing borders. I don't think it's too much respect for what's going on in borders. In other countries, there is a much greater understanding that one should be careful about this. There are units that are not just democratic basic units in terms of the municipal division, but there are units that have long historical traditions related to rights and obligations. It is quite obvious that this – if one is to change borders then – is the responsibility of the elected representatives, and municipalities and magnifications must enter. The councils may say that this is not used for the government's cutting-off, but that's now what people sense when they see a lot of the government's evaluations, and what's behind them. These are examples of Gemenes, which have such dramatic consequences that it is quite obvious to consider that there are spinal contractions behind them. That being said, there are all variants of sharing of municipalities and municipal border adjustments. One can strengthen strong municipalities, but one can also strengthen small municipalities. During the red-green period, we had an example with the Eksinge Valley, which is an incredibly resourceful valley in the municipality of Waksdal, with huge power build-up incomes that today go to the center, and of which the Eksinge Valley's inhabitants get very little left. At the same time, road links have changed so that the connection to the modal is greatly improved. Many services are currently being provided in an interaction between the Waksdal and the Modale, because it is the modale that is natural in terms of e.g.: health. It was an enormous commitment to that matter. It stopped at SMK and did not move on. It is obvious that it should come to Stortinget, and then Stortinget would be able to make a decision on that matter. People would then acknowledge that the top political body took it, and that one did not get the sail if one argued strongly for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1105	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1121	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1130	Today, we are discussing four representative proposals concerning the division of the country into counties. I should like briefly to say that, in connection with the Red's proposal, an overall committee has said that we should not adopt it. In the following, I will explain the majority's view on the three proposals put forward by representatives of the Central Party, assuming that the other parties present their respective views. In our thinking on regional reform, it has been quite central that regional reform and the division of the country should be based on voluntary activity. That's a lot of reasons. The process that we have behind us in recent years has not been sufficiently applied. On top of that, it has still not been possible to clarify which tasks these new structures are to be put in place. A central reason for creating a new structure has been that the counties would have new tasks and that the counties would have to grow larger in order to manage them. The tasks to be answered have not yet been clarified. It is also argued that there is sometimes a need for coercion in order to obtain appropriate breakdowns of the country. But for us, it is a fundamental democratic weakness. If it is not possible through rational reasoning and presentation of the case to convince those affected by the division that this is appropriate, then you have a relatively bad case. The problem here is not that people don't understand their own best. People don't understand why they're going to change something that works relatively well. It's a broad popular resistance. We see that particularly in some states north of the country, and it has also been here in the Eastern region. When this became a difficult process, which was poorly justified and aroused significant commitment and resistance to the solution that the majority in this room now stands for, the answer was not to go into dialogue. On the contrary, many of those affected experienced a particularly bad political craft for which the answer was: this is the majority for which we are to implement this. In the ambiguity of this process, legal issues have also emerged, where the country's leading legal experts on constitutional issues attack the government and claim that the law of division is broken. This may be of limited practical importance because this is primarily a political matter, but it is essential to be concerned if the country's legislative assembly is to adopt laws that it chooses to ignore. At best it can be said that over time it weakens legitimacy, even if one may not destroy the legality of the decisions taken. For the Workers' Party, we have opposed the coercion of counties because we agree with those who say that this is unwarranted and not necessary. We have put forward proposals after the elections last year to redefine these coercive mergers. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that. In the debate this year, we proposed to give the states affected by coercion the opportunity to raise that question again if it was still the case that they did not want to coercion. There, too, we suffered defeat. That is why we have chosen to support the proposal of the Centre Party for a similar process with a local initiative to reconstitute coercive mergers, and to support the reorganization of the coercive merger of Troms and Finnmark and the reorganization of the Viken. I'm going to use the last seconds of my speaking time to say one thing. The status of the new division into counties will be determined today. It shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. There are many people in the public sphere who have heavy tasks ahead of them and are busy getting them in place, for from day one, advanced training is required, the county roads are to be broken, and dental health is to be taken care of. We also have a challenge: we're going to wind up county elections next year. It must be ensured that the foundation of democracy, as a choice, must be properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1147	Regional reform is well anchored in a majority on the Stortinget. The matter has been dealt with in several rounds in this room, and we have also had several rounds of fights without these leading forward. Now it must be the end of the fights. It is a broad democratic process behind regional reform. The majority of the population in this room has not changed. In many counties, there is now a good deal of work to do in order to organise the new counties. New regions that will strengthen the provision of services to citizens and businesses are under way, and this is what regional reform is all about. The county councils now need calmness to continue the important work by 2020. So today, we are going to re-examine the opposition's reversing proposals. We had a similar debate a year ago. Then we discussed seven reverse proposals, proposals that, in my view, would take Norway in a completely wrong direction, without a necessary structure to solve tomorrow's real challenges. Today, we are going to consider four proposals that would lead to the same thing if they had received a majority in this Chamber. Luckily, they won't. We are going to consider proposals that cover the aggregations of Troms and Finnmark; Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud; Hedmark and Uppland; Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland; and Westfold and Telemark. It is certain, for some reason, only the Agder and Trøndelag of the new states that are life-created, if we had today followed these suggestions. Regional reform is a nationwide and comprehensive reform. The smallest counties govern the possibility of transferring tasks from the state to the county municipalities. That principle has underpinned the whole of the reform. I would like to stress that if some of these mergers are withdrawn from the reform, the assumptions for, among other things, change. the transfer of tasks and the adaptation of state structures to the new regions. And we don't want that in the Right. We have now spent many decades discussing the county councils. We have discussed whether we should have county municipalities, how many county municipalities we should have, whether we should have county reform, or whether we should not have county reform. Even the red-green government in its time attempted a state reform, without success. So when we look again at the proposals to reverse the regional reform, yes, it almost becomes a little absurd. On 8 June 2017, the Stortinget adopted a new county structure, as the country would have ten county municipalities plus Oslo municipality with municipal tasks. The decisions in the Stortinget were anchored in the treatment of Report. St. 22 for 2015–2016, «Newly elected regions – role, structure and tasks», Prop. 84 S for 2016-2017, ‘New breakdown of the regionally elected level’, and Prop. 128 S for 2016-2017, ‘The Community proposal 2018’. The decisions are also enshrined in a written agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. In addition to the reversing attempts in December last year, the Workers' Party supported proposals for the recasting of the decisions on new states in the context of the debate on the throne. Neither did this get a majority in Stortinget. It is difficult to see that in time, which has passed since the last time we discussed the reversing proposal, there have been new elements in the matter. I also want to remember what the Workers' Party's Tore O. Sandvik, the county rapporteur in recent merged Trøndelag, said to the evening post earlier this fall after many had criticised the Labour Party's leadership for not taking a distance from the handling in Finnmark and from those who would stop the merger in the Viking states. Sandvik then took the leaf from his mouth, as it was in the Evening Post on 31 August 2018: ‘My message to Jonas has been that the Ap must be involved and take responsibility for repairing the reform, do not stop it.’ It would have been to hope that the Workers' Party, which is used to being a governing party, had followed up today. For the sake of order: the right does not support the reversing proposals that have been promoted. I take up the proposals from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1176	The representative, Norunn Tveiten Benestad, has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1181	The majority of the Committee reiterates the fight for the regional reform adopted by the Stortinget in June 2017. On 7 December 2017, the Stortinget examined a number of proposals for the conversion of these decisions. None of the proposals received a majority in Stortinget. In the plenary debate on 4 October 2018, the Stortinget re-examined proposals for the reorganization of aggregation. Even this time the proposal did not have a majority. So the debate on the merger of states has been debated repeatedly, without any new developments, and without any other results. The Progress Party will also vote against the proposals for repealing previous decisions this time. For the Progress Party, this is about being included in the agreements we are concluding, and respecting the decisions taken by the majority of the Stortinge. We see no reason today to take the same debate again. What we meant in the previous debates, we still believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1196	The legal issues raised by this matter have an impact on the political debate we have here today. It is also the legal considerations that emerge, which are one of the reasons why you choose to deal with the matter several times. I think there may be reason for the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party to reason that they did not get a majority in the 2017 Grand Prix election, either in Troms or in Finnmark, and that both parties went back well. It is essentially a matter of partial lack of willingness to see that this case affects, at several levels, the personal identity of many, and it will have an impact on the results we can see from regional cooperation in the north. The question of aggregation in the north has been particularly controversial, especially in recent times in Finnmark, where we have, among other things, been. has seen that in recent weeks there has been a fire burning in both Finnmark and Troms. Even for me who lives well north of the Arctic Circle, it's hard to put myself into the feelings that are put in motion, especially in Finnmark, in this case -- the feeling of once again being overrun by the majority, a majority that they didn't send south to Oslo either. Of course, it is the Storting that ultimately determines the breakdown of the country. It necessarily follows from the law of division. Nevertheless, both local authorities and not least the population have certain democratic rights under the same laws. Now that doubts are raised as to whether the decision of the Storting, in particular the decision on Troms and Finnmark, is taken on the basis of the same laws, it should be in the interest of this whole hall to be sure that so was done. It doesn't choose, as it looks now, the hall to do. But if the representatives had been released and not allowed to rule partisanly, we know very well that there is really no majority to overrun Troms and Finnmark in this matter and collapse on a legal basis. The central party also accepts decisions when they are made, but here we believe that, especially lately, many questions have been raised, among other things. how to proceed, whether a proper investigation has been carried out, whether the county councils have been given an opinion, and whether the people have been given the democratic rights they have under the same laws as the government chooses to push ahead with it by saying that they really do not want to follow them. Therefore, the Central Party believes that it is absolutely in place to take one step back and lift the decision that the Stortinget has made for Troms and Finnmark. Furthermore, the Centre Party has promoted other amendments to the adopted coercive mergers. As far as the Week is concerned, the background to the major issues raised related to security has been that there has not been any progress in bringing about greater state coordination, especially since we have discussed security in recent weeks and recently. There should be a cross of thought for many of those who believe that so much has been done in the field of preparedness and security. Reports point out that the safety and preparedness of the population are weakened by this aggregation. And then I haven't been into the strange geographical associations you get, the Vikings and the Finnmarks. Furthermore, there has been a great deal of discussion about the states of the Inland and the new West. The central party believes that local democracy should be so strong that there should have been a proper investigation on the basis, and not least that the tasks should have come first. But if it is the case that the county councils want to move on with the work that many of them have done to some extent, they will of course be allowed to do so. That's why the Center Party assumes that they should have that possibility. I quote from Section 1 of the zoning law: ‘The activity under this Act shall be based on the principle of local participation and the right of initiative for border changes.’; That should be what this matter is about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1220	This is one of the strangest things I've ever dealt with in Stortinget. When we first dealt with it, it was said from almost all the parties that you really didn't like the solution that was chosen, and that might be especially true of the Week. But I would like to remind you a little about the background of this matter, to explain why SV is very opposed to the coercive decisions that have been taken. It started with a Right Party government that would bring down the county municipalities. It continued to suggest that they remove dental health and that high school and public transport could be added to the large municipalities. And that's a good thing this was voted down, otherwise we wouldn't have had much to argue about today. Then there had almost been no things left. Then we've moved on to the same track, where the government has now halved the regional policy instruments; what is the means of what the government says should be the main role of the county councils. That's why we think, in addition to coercive mergers, that this is such a bad solution that we choose to use this last opportunity to stop it. Here you create large geographical units with no common identity – there is the difference between Agder and Trøndelag and the other cases. There is no common identity between Hedmark and Uppland. I've lived there my whole life, so I know it -- maybe a little around Mjösa, but barely there. All trajectories go north-south, except for a very small point. It's such a big geographical unit that people in this big area might travel on vacation, on a long time, to the other end of the new county. So this is also a way to get to some units that can realize the Right and the Advance Party's dream, that's to put it down, because that won't be feelings for this unit. Then the representative Tveiten Benestad says that this proposal is well anchored. Yes, it is – in Stortinget. But I'm going to promise her that it's not in Finnmark. I will promise that it is not in Eastfold and in Buskerud, which is now going into this strange construction called the Viking. The principle of this is that SV is opposed to merging states with coercion because it's an extremely bad starting point. Either you're getting married, or you're going to get together and work together in the future, this is an extremely bad starting point. We in the Inland are mindful of ourselves, so I guess it's going to happen in a way, but I'm reacting to the fact that the government and the majority don't even understand that in Finnmark it's kind of about the whole identity, that it's a state that's as large as a part of the country alone, and that you don't respect that there's a lot of resistance. With all due respect, one cannot call it a local democratic reform when it is coerced. None of the new tasks proposed so far by the government requires a single coercive reform or coercion to be possible. In the case of Finnmark and Troms, a number of legal issues related to the treatment have also been raised. And it is quite correct that the case that was decided in Stortinget was not the one that Finnmark, Troms and Nordland were asked about. They were asked to join all three. That's why you can also raise all the formal arguments against it, as it has been. And it doesn't seem to make any impression on the majority: that you haven't followed the law here. When we are today voting in favour of the lifting of the merger of Finnmark and Troms and the lifting of the merger to the Viking, it is because it is the worst of them. We are voting for the other coercive states to be able to take the initiative on their own initiative on the basis of their own decision, just as we proposed in the previous round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1243	In 1989, a long process of restructuring the popularly elected regional level was launched to give more power and authority to people elected as community developers. It was supposed to take almost 30 years before the Stortinget landed the greatest democratic reform ever in county history. On 8 June 2017, a significant majority here at Stortinget adopted a regional reform which ended with eleven counties, to be operational from 1 January 2020. It's been about. 100 years ago the biggest change in county borders. All reforms involve changes, and it is well known from research, the phenomenon that changes will face different types of resistance from different actors, including regional reform. For the Left and Christian People's Party, it was essential to be able to cooperate with the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration to join in this reform. After the regional reform was adopted last year, we had a major election in which the people chose a majority that stood by the regional reform. We have been clear in the argument earlier that this is shifting power down, more decentralization of power, and it has also had great support in, among other things. The College of Directors, with Tore O. Sandvik from the Workers' Party at the head. That's why in many ways it's a little amazing, what I'm experiencing both from the Workers' Party and, not least, from the Center Party – a well-known song from the past, but I thought that after this confirmation had happened in two cases before, we could now get to work and actually fill in tasks like we're doing on the 18th of this month. Several representative proposals to end the reform in a number of counties were also promoted in December last year, and with a wide-ranging consultation within the committees. The Committees did not mention by any of Finnmark that the decision was illegal. The arguments then went primarily to the distances in the new region, which we're all well aware of. It was therefore surprising that a representative proposal was presented in this case. It is not least alarming that, this time, serious allegations of illegalities by the Ministry or the Stortinget were made before the decision was taken on 8 June last year. It wasn't like that. In the left's opinion, what we're doing now, is again a rematch and use of the time we should have spent preparing the county elections next year. The Storting treats the other mergers in the same way as the Merging of Troms and Finnmark. Like the other county municipalities, both Troms and Finnmark have been running processes in line with what the Stortinget expected in 2015 – with neighbouring conversations, investigations and opinions. That Finnmark, together with several others, did not choose to send the matter out at the hearing, is not the responsibility of Storting. If Finnmark had wanted more time to do hearings, they could have asked for it. Instead, they asked the Stortinget to decide the matter in June 2017, which we naturally succeeded. I recall that the County of Troms has not asked for the lifting of the collapse decision, such as the merger. Finnmark has made and has not claimed that the decision is illegal. It is regrettable that the Storting must once again spend time on legal decisions in this Chamber. When we had the same treatment a year ago, no one in the hearing claimed that the decision had been made on an illegal basis. Claims of illegalities were also not made in the proceedings of Stortinget in June 2017. Finnmark – or, for that matter, Nordland and Troms – has not been dealt with differently in terms of identifying consequences, making neighbouring calls and concluding opinions. Nor have Nordland and Troms complained about the processes or claimed that there was anything illegal in them. The fact that Finnmark was not satisfied with the 2017 decision is an honest case, and well-known, but everyone else has accepted the collapse decision as legal and is already in the process of preparing the county elections in September 2019 and the work the new regions will carry out as societal developers from 1 January 2020. I would strongly ask that after this day, the representatives of big business contribute to calming down, and not least that we have a constructive conversation, dialogue, in the future, even though, of course, we may also disagree between ourselves. Finally, I would like to point out something that is somewhat misleadingly claimed by the representative Andersen from SV. Yes, it is correct that we had a regional reform or something similar under the red-green government, which transferred the highways in its time, without even filling in with the collection of costs. I have myself been sitting in prison, I know very well that the aftermath was great. It was necessary to fill it up, not least for both residents and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1262	I don't think it's necessary for me to stand here for the third time and explain the Christian People's Party's view on this matter, so I want to start by quoting the Icelandic peel Snagle-Halle. He was told that he was attending an Ethics at King Harald Hardråde. When the cask that was walking around the table came to the shed Halle, it was empty. He shall have been angry with the king, and shall have written a mockery to the majesty. Then the king must have become angry and forced Halle to eat more grass than he could have. Then the Snail-Halle exclaimed, Kill me, my lord the king, but not with grass. I saw the relevance of this quotation from the Viking Age in the discussion of this pile of representative proposals that we have today – I might as well have said: Kill me, the Center Party, but not with rematches. In order to move from tendencies to jokes to bloody seriousness: the Center Party, together with the Workers' Party, SV and Red, is in danger of dealing with this repeated rematch strategy, is killing respect for the Storting decision, which has been done twice before the Storting – in two large cases. It's great that a fighter for his vision. Of course, this applies to both parties and popular press groups and actionists, but in a well-functioning democracy traditional parties should realize that once a battle is lost, a blow is lost, and respect the decision of the Stortinge to move on. Not least I had expected it from the Workers' Party. It can also be noted that the popular involvement in Finnmark began seriously when decisions were taken. It is a basic driving rule in Norwegian democracy that one recognizes political defeat and goes on. It also means that social parties do not go around land and beach and encourage rematching year after year. I understand the arguments and the commitment of e.g. Finnmark, but I have no sympathy with the fact that legitimately taken decisions on landfills are being trained, and I have even less sympathy for the fact that serious parties in our national assembly make fishing in rebellious waters a living for so long that it must be called reinspicka populism. It is great that we live in a country with democracy and freedom of expression, but it is up to us, as politicians, to vote against it when enough is enough, for the sake of democracy itself. It is based not only on freedom of expression but also on accountability and respect. I'm for action, but I'm not for serious political parties trying to train, either at national or regional level. It is not in accordance with our proud democratic tradition. Nor did the Christian People's Party get its primary position adopted in the regional breakdown. We had to bend our heads, and then we had to move on. And now we are about to realize a long-term, historic regional reform. It is an important step in regional policy. In that picture, the district party acts directly against the district enemy, if I may use such harsh words. Stronger and more powerful regions than today's county councils are incredibly important for district policy, for a district policy that works, based on the different advantages of our very different regions. That's why this was also a main recommendation from the District Commission in its time. We will discuss this more thoroughly when processing the task report before we take a Christmas holiday. The treatment of new regional structures has been illuminated up and down. The law's requirement that the Member States concerned have the opportunity to make their views known and that it be possible to do so before a decision is taken is fully met, as the Minister of State has explained, inter alia. in response to the Central Party representative Sandra Borch. If I am heard and angry, it is not because my party is challenged at its point of view, but because the respect for legitimate decisions of big business is being attacked from within. I think we have to stay too good in this room. We therefore believe that all these proposals for representatives must be rejected, that is, not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1280	The Greens believe that coercion is an extremely poor basis for a well-functioning regional democracy. Then there is no trust in either the process or the proposals themselves. The purpose of this reform, according to the government platform, is so beautifully written that it could almost have been cut straight out of the Green Party party programme: ‘The government will facilitate living communities throughout the country. We want to spread power and build society from below. A strong local government gives peoples and communities freedom and the ability to govern their own everyday life and social development.’ But we don't build society from below and don't get strong popular rule by forcing mergers against the wishes of the local people. We don't give people and communities freedom by instigating them. That is why we are voting for the immediate reversal of the coercion of Finnmark and Troms and of Østfold, Akershus and Buskerud, and for each of the other coercive states to be allowed to exist as their own states if they so wish. This reform lacks complete policy objectives that meet today's main challenge: the ongoing climate change and the transformation that local communities across Norway must make to become a low-carbon society and create new, sustainable jobs and industries. The Greens are not fundamentally opposed to looking at new borders, but this regional reform is a poor result of a political horse trade on the Stortinget. It has overrun local democracy and does not contribute to a green shift. In Finnmark and Troms, coercion has led to a deep conflict and an uprising between state and state and between population. In other counties, this clumsy process has led to forced volunteering and decisions with low support and legitimacy in the people. Instead of creating commitment to our main societal challenges, the reform derails this with divisions and uprisings. The point is: we live at a time when democracy is being challenged in many Western countries. The distance is felt to be too great between people and elected people, and populism and xenophobia are being bred. If you want to build a sustainable society from below, you have to get people involved and work with people. That is why the Greens support all the states that are applying for a few reversals of the coercion. That's why we're supporting the 87 pst. of the Finns’ mark which voted against the referendum on aggregation. That is why we support Finnmark County in not further participating in coercive processes. We want to work for Finnmark and Troms to survive as their own regions, without special arrangements where they are relieved of their tasks. As far as these states are concerned, the Stortinget has even broken its own law, the law of division, by not ensuring that the county councils were heard before the merger was adopted in spring 2017. So here should the Storting lay flat and start over again. The Greens also support all those in Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud who are angry, frustrated and enraged over a new Week. We believe that a better solution would be to divide the Gulf into two strong states on either side of the fjord – an East Viken and a West Viken. Then we still have two large, populous counties, but there will be a division that will be perceived as more logical and recognizable for the population. It makes historical sense, with common valleys and watercourses, and it could be supported by the population. I am therefore promoting today a proposal that 'The Grand Government is asking the Government not to split Akershus into two and form two counties on each side of the Oslo Earth, if the counties Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud support it'. [[...]] With that, I'll take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1309	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1314	The government's regional reform is a farce, so Red proposes that it be abolished. Our position is that decisions about how the states should look need to be anchored in local referendums to ensure local democracy from below. The reform was initiated by an invitation to the county councils to investigate possible mergers. The feedback was largely negative. The county authorities considered that they were large enough to perform the tasks they were assigned to do, and also to accept new tasks that are currently managed by state authorities. Nevertheless, the government chose to implement regional reform as a coercive reform, against major local protests. Telemark and Vestfold, Oppland and Hedmark, Buskerud, Østfold and Akershus and Troms and Finnmark were coerced in violation of county decisions in one or more of the counties. In Finnmark, decisions were taken not only against aggregation with Troms, but also that they should remain as their own region. There was also a referendum, with 87 pst. voted against the merger of Troms and Finnmark. The turnout was 58 pst., 5 percentage points higher than the last turnout. The government itself said in its big message about the regional reform: ‘The government wants to promote a social development in which society develops more from below. It involves less state detail management and greater room for local democracy.» But the whole process here has been characterized by the opposite. The regional reform is not worth the paper it's written on, and with the government's mission message, we got a political union that adds to a regional centralisation where power and jobs are moved from the districts to large state capitals. When we received the mission message in the autumn, we were confirmed that the regional reform is both unnecessary and undemocratic. Therefore, Red believes that it is now necessary for the Storting to put a stop to these mergers, rather we can move power and money into the country democratically. It is not enough to play the ball back to the states, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will, in the majority of the elected county councils, because then the future will be put into the hands of the people of Hedmark, Oppland, Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland, Westfold and Telemark with a view to good positions in the new major regions. It's Red against. Where there is no desire from the local population for aggregation, no aggregation shall be carried out either. The county structure must and must be anchored locally. On Tuesday, the county council in Sogn and Fjordane decided that they would distribute their power shares, worth billions, to the municipalities in the county, instead of taking them with them when the county coerced with Hordaland from January 2020. Terje Søviknes, who is now the first candidate for the Vestland Progress Party, says to Dagsrevyen that this is likely to have consequences, such as: that the new county will not be interested in making any special investments in Sogn and Fjordane after the coercion. This case clearly shows why it's unfortunate coercion we're talking about here. Then there are parties that have said one thing locally, and made it the very opposite here on the Storting. That's not how Red acts. Red has been consistent that we want to cancel the coercive mergers. For this reason, we propose that the government should bring an action for the abolition of the coercion of Telemark and Vestfold counties, Oppland and Hedmark counties and Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane counties respectively, and of course we will stop the hopeless coercion of Finnmark and Troms, and of Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud, called Viken. It's a tragedy that today's population add up to lay down all of these states. It's unwise, it's undemocratic, and it's overcoming the people's will. I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1340	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. Then the President will remind the representative that ‘powers’ are not enough as a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1347	Regional reform is about how to organise our regionally elected level in a way that provides the best possible services for the citizens and that allows for growth and development across the country. The boundaries of today's county councils were pulled up for a completely different time. Since then, society has changed significantly, and it also has challenges. And then the way we organize, we have to change. It is one and a half years since the Stortinget decided on new structures at the regionally elected level. The country's state politicians are now fully planning how they can create something new and better together with their opportunities, resources and challenges. I've met many people who work with great enthusiasm, and who now warn against more national noise. Now the counties are well under way. The counties get bigger, and they get more inhabitants. It provides new opportunities for county councils to see, plan and implement policies in a wider context. The county councils can now pool their resources and competences and strengthen their capacity. Major trade unions provide the basis for increasing the level of services provided to citizens and for further developing services. Several citizens provide a greater economic space for state policy. Larger budgets give greater opportunities to give priority to action in the direction that the states themselves will take. Only the Stortinget can determine the geographical breakdown of the counties. It is also fixed in the setting available in this case. Later in winter, the Stortinget will decide on the tasks to be performed by municipalities after 2020, in addition to the tasks already undertaken by the Stortinget. Fewer and larger counties are a necessary prerequisite for the transfer of tasks to the counties. In the debate, one can get the impression that Finnmark and Troms have been treated differently from the other county municipalities that have been adopted combined. That's not right. The initiative taken by letter to the county councils in 2015 was the same, and the department's case investigation has been the same. All county municipalities decided on their views on structural change during the autumn of 2016, as they were invited to do. The government’s proposal for new county municipalities was promoted on 5 April 2017, in the proposal for a new division of the regionally elected level, while the proposal for the merger of Troms and Finnmark was promoted on 11 May 2017, in the municipality proposal for 2018. The difference between the process before the decision to merge Troms and Finnmark and the other decisions was therefore only that the proposal for Troms and Finnmark was promoted a month later than the other proposals. It was not up to a process in which some of the county councils were to express themselves after the government had made its proposals. There is also no requirement for that in the law of division. I have also thoroughly explained the legality of the process before the decision to merge in letters to the representative Sandra Borch of 20 August 2018. The size of the population today confirms – again – that it is a political majority in order to strengthen the county municipalities. I hope that with this debate today, we can set the finish line for rematches on a legally adopted decision in Stortinget on 8 June 2017. The time until 2020 is short. For employees, it is now essential that county councils are given the necessary time to plan for the period after 2020. For the democratic rights of the inhabitants, it is important that preparations for the elections are started, so that they are given the opportunity to vote at the next elections. I would like to encourage us all – as national politicians – to rather than repress the importance of supporting the work of our regional elected representatives in creating new, forward-looking county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1375	I would warn the Council of State against using too much the notion of ‘national noise’ and ‘rematch’, because there are actually a large number of people exercising their democratic right to fight against a decision which they oppose, as long as they consider it necessary. And as long as they do it within the framework of the law, it's a right they have, which we also have to respect. But my question to the Council of State is, which of the tasks that have now been proposed to the states cannot be transferred to today's counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1382	I have not asked questions about the right to rematch. You can do that in infinity if you think it's constructive. I mean, it's not. It is important that we now start the job of a majority in this Chamber – two times earlier, for the third time today – to decide on, and then you can agree or disagree with it. When it comes to the problem, I'm happy to get it, because everyone's talking about that because they get new problems, they're going to get bigger. That's not the explanation alone. The explanation is that our lives have changed dramatically in the last 50 years. The way we work, our business, the way we move, the way we plan, and the way we travel, has changed dramatically. So the good question is, is there any reason why the county councils, who are responsible for these areas, should not change when the rest of the world has changed? I believe that the answer is obvious: of course, we also need to change the structure of the states, which are responsible for seeing things in a larger context. To the question of new tasks: We have now submitted a task message with fifty tasks in many policy fields, and my answer is that the smallest municipality sets the threshold for what the biggest one can do. And it's my clear opinion – it's also the expert committee's opinion – that Finnmark states, with its well 70,000 inhabitants, should not have any more tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1391	Then the Council of State was able to answer the question in the last second. Then I understand that there are none of the tasks that are now being proposed transferred to the new counties, which Finnmark County could have solved today. It's an opinion I disagree with. But I also hear that the Council of State is very concerned about explaining that the task assignment is really completely subordinate. It's a little bit different story than they've had before. They have argued that because you get new tasks, you also have to change the county structure. So then I can also grasp what the Council of State said about the way we work: What are the ways we work today that the Council of State believes we need to change the state structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1398	To be clear, I am of the opinion that the Finnish county council is already struggling with the tasks they have. That means they shouldn't have any more. That's my answer. Neither is it that new tasks are subordinate. It's very important. It's important to spread power, it's important to shift tasks, closer to the population. It is important that the new regions are forward-looking, that they are modern, that they are given responsibility in important areas, and we have proposed that. We have proposed to transfer together road administration, we have proposed to transfer tasks on climate and environment, on public health, on business development, on skills, on agriculture, on integration, on culture – to mention something. Why do you have to change? Well, because the way we plan is very different. The way in which we build dwellings has changed dramatically. Trends in industry have changed markedly. Inland, Agder, Westland have quite different challenges. And the county councils are responsible for educating young people to the skills they need in business. It's changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1407	Now the Storting is about to adopt a reform nobody really wants. It's a coercive reform where the population is overrun in the counties after the counties, where the counties are overrun after the counties, and then you find reasons along the way. Why is it that Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud must be coerced together, all of which have more inhabitants than Møre and Romsdal – each of the counties has more inhabitants than Møre and Romsdal? And then you can think of a reason where you say they have to grow so big, because they have to transfer problems, but then you let two counties that have fewer inhabitants pass. Luckily, they're going to pass, but what's the reason that Buskerud is too small when More and Romsdal are big enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1413	The debate on why this was to be carried out took place in June 2017. The good question today, when you deal with this for the third time, is: what has changed since June 2017, when the majority in this Chamber said that there is a need for change and for a structure, and we adopt it? What's changed? There's nothing that's changed, and it's not that the Week is special in any context, except that it has a large population. The fold is 4.7 pst. of the Norwegian area. It is not particularly large compared to other county municipalities, but there are many inhabitants, and therefore the Gulf will also become a large and powerful region. But you can work in a context, you can plan in a context, you have a common housing and labour market, and you have a business life with challenges other than what you like. has in North Norway. So I think the Viking is going to be a powerful and important region in the future, and I think that decision was right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1418	If it had been the government that had presented a state reform based on how our lives have changed, how to work, etc., you should have presented a state reform where Oslo and Akershus had been merged. It has not been done, but it is a common labour market and residential area now. You don't solve the problems associated with overall land and transport planning with this, but what you do is you create new ones. If the Council of State doesn't see what's different about the Viking, that's that it doesn't even relate geographically, I have to say I'm a little stated. So there's no such thing in Norwegian history, and now we're making a unit that's not related geographically. How can the Council of State think that this is a unit that people should feel the identity of and have their home in, when it is not even geographically connected?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1425	So the size has decided this structure. It happened a year and a half ago. The Week is well under way to plan the new region, the new county municipality. It's going to be a strong region and the most populous region we're going to have, so they're doing well to plan the new region. The question then is: what has changed since the majority of the Storting – the majority in this Chamber – took the decision? It's not something that's changed. That is why we should stand firm on the decision we made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1430	The resistance to coercion is as strong now as it was a year and a half ago. No one wants the Viking in any of the states. It hasn't changed. There's as much resistance to this kaudervelic notion now as it was a year and a half ago. I see that the government in the big news about regional reform writes that they want to strengthen and to have less state detail management and greater room for local democracy. The county councils answered mostly no to the question of whether they wanted to merge, and they thought they were big enough to solve the problems they were assigned to, and ready to take over new tasks in their existing form. Nevertheless, through this coercion reform, the government pressed against the will of the county councils, against the will of the population. How does the Council of State feel that this coercion process has given greater room for local democracy, as she writes so nicely in her bigotry report on regional reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1439	It is the Stortinget that has initiated this reform – a majority in this Chamber, our top elected body. It's the Stortinget that has authority to determine the structure of the states. One can have a position, as Red has, that the county council should determine its own structure, and then one can propose to amend the law, so that it is no longer the Grand Council that takes this decision. I was in the midst of a debate on border adjustment of the municipalities. The opposition was of the opinion that the Stortinget should take the decision in all border adjustment cases. And then at the same time, you can think of nothing to think about regionalization. I totally disagree. These are national issues which should be decided by the national Parliament. They've heard what the counties have meant, but it's the Stortinge that decides, and the Stortinge has the opportunity to make decisions against the will of the county councils. In contrast to what the representative suggested, this has not been done in the county of Western Europe – there are the county councils of the two existing county councils that have taken a decision on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1446	As a result, the string shift has ended. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1453	The way regional reform is driven is still facing great resistance in Finnmark. The regional reform triggers strong feelings of not being heard and great commitment to a merger. There were great expectations of regional reform, but the government's lack of will and ambition to push the reform forward and give it real content became, unfortunately, more and more evident early on. The regional reform emerged more as a substanceless reform with no focus on new tasks, the most important of which was to reduce the number of counties by pushing forward a new geographical breakdown. The counties would be bigger, stronger and more robust. Focusing on new tasks, distance constraints and challenges with sparsely populated areas was totally absent. Outside the states, discontent, scepticism and resistance increased, but the majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, voted in favour of a merger of states. The Christian People's Party correctly stated that they would see the new geographical breakdown in connection with the new tasks to be transferred to the states. This meant that many of us who opposed any aggregation that was not based on volunteering, had a hope that the Christian People's Party could change its position. In retrospect, the government parties and the Christian People's Party have entered into an agreement that they will press through successions, as previously adopted. The same batches have also agreed on the tasks to be transferred to the new merged counties – tasks that, according to the KS calculations, will give the new counties a total of 100 jobs and a budget increase of 0.25 p.m., i.e. minimal changes – new tasks that could easily have been solved within today’s county municipalities. The regional reform was intended to provide a large transfer of tasks and instruments from central to regionally elected levels. This still doesn't seem to be going to happen. The size has dealt with several representative proposals during the grubbing-up period. I record that the representatives of the government parties and the Christian People's Party in their speeches have not had good arguments when they talked about the reform, the content of the reform or how they were going to face up to the coup d'état. The Workers' Party has promoted, inter alia: proposals during the throne debate, in which we asked that the government should start good and voluntary processes and that this should be the starting point for any changes to the county structure, that county mergers should be based on volunteering, and that, in cases where the county itself does not wish to do so, mergers should not be carried out. We support the proposal under consideration. I know that the organisation from Finnmark who works against bundling has invited several of you up. I wish you would go there and try to anchor and create enthusiasm for the majority decision, which you have not been able to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1468	Yesterday, Stortinget dealt with the Riksrevision report on object protection. It refers to how to ensure social security and preparedness in Norway, and essentially to how to ensure the safety of people in Norway. The Christian People's Party promoted in this matter and received a majority in the Grand Duchy for the strongest criticism that the Grand Duchy can adopt without promoting distrust of the government. One mentioned government's lack of follow-up as very serious and highly critical. But not enough, one also said something about how to ensure social security and preparedness at regional level. In its comments on the matter, the majority of the Committee would like to stress that the Riksrevision report has highlighted poor interaction between key actors. The majority also indicate that better interaction between police, defence, state officials, county councils, municipalities and non-governmental organisations is a key factor in better preparedness. What's the relationship with what we're talking about today when it comes to the Week? Last autumn, a report was presented, in which those responsible for social security and preparedness in the affected counties give a crushing judgment against the Vikings. One said that the Viking would cause increasing complexity and increase vulnerability, weakening the conditions for securing preparedness and social security in the Central East. So it was the judgment of those responsible for ensuring social security and preparedness in that area. And not enough with that, one also said that the Vikings lead to increased complexity and leave the impression that social security and preparedness were not assessed when a new structure for the county council and county councils were determined for the Eastern region. Here you have not only been run over locally. It is not just that you have not been listened to – one has not even been asked. And the judgment of what has been made by the government and the majority is crushing. To the Council of State: This is new information after the Stortinge case was dealt with in June 2017. Those who are responsible for ensuring social security and preparedness in Akershus, in Buskerud and in Eastfold, say that if Storting's decision remains, there will be a weakening of the ability to carry out its mission. It is therefore extremely important that the decision be repealed today. The majority, government and government parties bear a great responsibility if they remain on their decision to implement the Viking Bay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1487	Let’s talk about the Viking – a married child of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People’s Party. It's getting closer to Christmas, and then the representatives of these parties are going to go home and tell some stories to children and grandchildren that they've been on something big, which they're really proud of -- a reform that really goes into Norway's history, a reform with political wisdom and participation, really a reform of the Norwegian people. Yes, for it was once something called Buskerud, Eastfold and Akershus. Now it's going to be Viken. Why? ask children and grandchildren. Because the people wanted it? No, no, no. Because there's going to be a better offer for the inhabitants? No, no, no. Because there's going to be a lot of new problems? No, no, no. Because local democracy wanted it? No, no, no. Why? You see, it was late at night in the office of the parliamentary leaders, and it may seem that it was even after-playing. The bigger, the better, said the Right. And it might look like the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left's representatives asked, how far does the most expensive Tesla have? So became the powerful Viking to: from Hallingdal to Halden. Centralisation, centralization, centralization, said the Christian People's Party. Yes, that is what we want in the Right and Advance Party. That's why we do it, because we really want to put down the entire county. Local democracy – no, they are annoying these local politicians. They require and require. Welfare services near people – no, call me. Erna knows best. Locally elected people and citizens can experience the welfare of the community incorrectly, you know. No, the Christian People's Party was still a little skeptical and even suggested that they could vote against it, but it didn't work that way. We have to do as Mother Erna says. Snip, snap, snip, snip, so was Buskerud, Eastfold and Akershus outside. I hope big-time representatives from the right, and it includes the Christian People's Party, can go to this pulpit and make flaming speeches about the Viking, for we hear people on the right side talking to the Viking, but vote in favour. The Labour Party wants to provide support to the employees and local elected representatives, who have been put in an impossible situation by the government and the majority of the population, who despite the poor political craftsmanship of the government, think of the employees and the best of the inhabitants. Unfortunately, they have a large number of people who don't work with them, but against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1498	I think this is so sad, and I wonder what has happened when we, who have fought against coercion, have not managed to get the Stortinge to understand what the atmosphere in Finnmark is like. We in Finnmark feel that we're being bored, we feel that the identity and culture we're so proud of is nothing to care about. People in Finnmark see that once again you are treated differently and worse than the other states. Democracy in Finnmark is simply cost away. Local democracy is also democracy, and it is nothing worse than national democracy. The European Charter of Local Self-Government states that local democracy is the main basis of any democratic political rule. Finnmark does not challenge the single country. Of course, it is acknowledged that the Stortinget is Norway’s top legislative body. In this case, however, there is magnification and government that challenges democracy and the rule of law by breaking the laws to force through a merger of Troms and Finnmark. Finnmark cannot accept this. We say that Norway is a state governed by law, but the very basic principle of a state governed by law is that the central authority is also bound by law. If power is to prevail over the laws, we have no rule of law or democracy. Many different professors and lawyers have been very clear on this, also on behalf of Finnmark. No known or unknown, small or large lawyers have ever said that the government has done the right thing. In that case, it must be the government's internal lawyers. Finally, it was the law firm Kluge, who is preparing lawsuits on behalf of Finnmark, who says the same thing as the lawyers. That the laws have been broken, read and adopted in Finnmark. By pushing through this decision, Finnmark's sense of justice is violated, and it's serious. I challenge the representatives from Finnmark, especially Bengt Rune Strifeldt and Marianne Haukland, to come up to the pulpit and tell them that the law has been followed. How are they supposed to defend that they're not on Finnmark's side?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1509	There is a certain danger of reprisal here today. We, as representatives of the states that are to be coerced, have had many comments as to why this should not happen. We have tried to explain why this is not a good idea, but none from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left or the Christian People's Party have listened or considered Finnmark's no. Now they're not satisfied with coercion anymore, now they're going to use whips. A Document 8 proposal has been submitted in the autumn that the municipal minister should be empowered to override the non-willing county councils and to appoint the electoral candidate himself. It'll come back to Stortinget later. Think about it – in a democratic society, the majority will take power from the county and instruct what and who to do what. It's to be darkened by. A Document 8 shall not be consulted; therefore, the Ministry shall refrain from any of the position representatives from promoting such a proposal. Yes, there is a lot of it and a lot of it can be used for – if you can use it. I'm not going to argue against aggregation, it doesn't matter to power people to listen to, but I'm going to say something about the situation in Finnmark now on the basis of the majority abuse of power. Many in Finnmark are now fully discussing legal action against the State because they believe that the merger decision has not followed normal consultation procedure and is therefore illegal. Everyone here knows that little Finnmark can't win against the big state, and that the Storting also has the authority to make unreasonable decisions, as in this case. Only the fact that people want to resort to legalization illustrates the abject feelings of Finnmark people. That's not how you run a country. That's not how you treat your northernmost state, the largest in the area, the only thing with a border with Russia – the multicultural Finnland, which has just asked for permission to be itself and that the big community should respect our position. The majority have made a historical mistake. It's terrible to say it, this is a historical mistake, and they keep doing it. The majority push through – I would say – a scandalous project. The responsibility lies with the position, they are responsible for the fact that this will never be a successful project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1521	The representative Gharahkhani throws stone into a glass house, and it really sings. I'm going to tell you why: The County rapporteur from the Workers' Party in Buskerud took part in a historic decision in December 2016. It was a positive decision to build the construction Viken. What has happened, and what new arguments have emerged, I do not know, but at least I can say that it was a very good decision and that the rapporteur of the Labour Party was foresight. Why? Indeed, a number of studies have concluded that there is a need for fewer regions, better country breakdowns and new tasks for regions: the Christiansen Committee in 1989, Gunnar Berge’s report No. 32 for 1994–1995, Odd Roger Enoxens Task Distribution Committee and the District Commission in 2004. KS concluded in 2004 that we needed seven regions; the Stoltenberg government in 2009 recommended nine regions. Åslaug Haga was the municipal minister of that government. But no one has managed to do this, it's about great resistance to change. The county boundaries have now remained silent for over 100 years. We used horses and carts, we didn't have Tesla -- which some devious people are talking about, it's maybe good that we're driving electrified cars, no matter what their name is -- the digitized society or the green shift. The university had come to Oslo after a long draw. Society is moving forward, the structures are changing, and we want innovation and progress in the country, not stagnation. It requires structural changes not only in the municipal sector but also in the regional sector. Then we came to the dilapidated bay. The Week has and is a common workspace for many, it's just looking at statistics on commuting in this big region. There are huge infrastructure tasks to be solved throughout the Week, and I think a coordinated state will be the very best thing to do. We have a common labour market area, and we have incredibly large resources that we can interact with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1532	Once again – I don’t even think it’s the third time, I really think it’s the fourth time – this is the issue in Stortinget. I hear that they sigh and groan and carry themselves in the Right, in the Advance Party, in the Left and in the Christian People's Party, that this matter is once again coming back to the Stortinget. Then I think those representatives, and the Council of State, have to ask themselves, why does it do that? Why does it always come back to Stortinget? Why is it now the fourth time we are discussing this in Stortinget? The answer to this is simply that the Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, have done a terrible political craft. That is why this matter comes back to Stortinget again and again. This has been referred to as 'a political masquerade', and then we hear that it is not a parliamentary expression. It's getting almost no help, because that's the expression that almost describes what this reform is. That's why sometimes you have to be allowed to use the expression that people understand. There is a complete lack of logic throughout the reform. I hear it from several representatives of the government parties and the Christian People's Party, I hear it from the Council of State. Moors and Romesdals with 270,000 to 280,000 inhabitants shall stand alone. Eastfold currently has more than that alone. But it was necessary to join Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud. It is argued that it is a common housing and labour market. It's great with electric cars, but it's still true that not even a councillor from the Right can claim that you can live in Halden and commute to Hemsedal and work, then drive back to Halden and eat dinner? This is completely hopeless, therefore this matter comes back to Stortinget time and time again. I also register that there is a warning against rematching. The Council of State thought that this should be done very carefully. We need to listen when a government council from this government, a government council from the Right, talks about rematches. Then she might think that a reversal of the abortion law would not be appropriate either?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1543	I want to believe that the representative Lauvås is able to find other expressions even if he wants to be strong in his expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1548	This is about people. We are promoting the proposal again because we believe that Stortinget must know its visitation time. Are we chosen to overrun how counties and municipalities, elected by local and county elections, best do their judgements? For jam, there is a great distance from here and from the government's assessments to the assessments made in elected bodies around the country. This is about people – people's lives, the services they demand, and the everyday lives they live in. It is about the rule of peoples and respect for the decisions taken in elected bodies, about the values of proximity across the country, that you can live and operate throughout the country. These are good Norwegian values. At the right of the representative Tveiten Benestad, the first mentions the groupings as ‘a broad democratic process’. I believe the Right as a conservative party should hold on too well to claim it. This is the result of the overrun of local investigations and decisions in negotiations between a minority government and opposition parties. Several representatives have referred to the law of division and local involvement. When the bundlings are made by coercion, even representatives from the Right must recognise that the local involvement has been seen, heard and overrun. The Party recognises that closeness to decision-makers and knowledge of each other builds trust. The central party acknowledges that scattered settlements provide a basis for good preparedness, which is our strongest defense. In the future, we need to get more out of less in the public sector. When we think about new things, we also have the opportunity to think spread. If trust, efficiency and responsibility are to be increased, local assessments must be taken seriously. The elected representatives must be heard. State Council of Malta makes it clear that there is a contrast between cheering local democracy and working for forward-looking states. It's not being erased. Locally, one has also expressed frustration over the order in which things are done. Soon, the Stortinget shall debate the tasks to be transferred to the counties. The outcome here should be the basis for further regional reform, not the opposite. The tasks that we see as proposed and, where appropriate, analysed transferred also provide a basis for asking what coherence is there between the state councils' external borders, the content and the tasks they are now being proposed to carry over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1563	On December 1st, we had a burning for democracy in Finnmark in my hometown, Hasvik. This is now taking place every day in North Norway. We had a large, fine fire, and afterwards it was home to hang up adventurous lights on the outside of the house. When I was going to hang up the Advent stars on the west wall towards the church in Hasvik, what was not going to happen happened. I fell down from the staircase that I had inherited from my mother. It flattened out, and I had to sew seven stitches. This might be a symbol of the whole thing about the merger of Troms and Finnmark. The matter has been too grounded, as my steps were. I had great faith in the Christian People's Party, and the representative Hareide had a course that I had hoped he would be supported by the majority in the Christian People's Party. The support of the Christian People's Party was really hopeful in this matter. In any case, my advent star in Hasvik has come to light, and hope will always be. I challenge Christian People's Party representatives to come up here and tell me why you are not concerned that the law and the law should be followed in this case. In Finnmark, people are convinced that the laws are not followed by the government. These are unique signals from everyone. Finnmark is not going to give up. The Finnmarkings have been out one winter night before – literally. Finnmark County sits in these days and prepares a lawsuit against the state, and people press on to get this case started. Do you want to lose in the Chamber and in the Government that the people of Finnmark, who live in a sensitive and important border area, absolutely all of trust in corruption and government? Is that really what you want? The commitment that this case has aroused in Finnmark clearly shows that the Finnmarks identity is immensely strong, whether you are the same, who or norse. In the referendum that was in Finnmark, the whole 87 pst said. of those who abstained, no to aggregation. In 14 out of 19 municipalities in Finnmark, the nei voices were over 90 pst. If Stortinget exceeds Finnmark in this case, this is a shameful day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1570	I respect the fact that the opposition does not always agree with the government's policy, and I expect that to be true in many other matters than the regional reform as well. But now we're in a situation where for the third or fourth time we adopt a new county structure, and in that process all the counties have been treated the same. One of the first times was before the 2017 elections, the second time was December 7, last year, and so the third time is today. We have had consultations on the representative proposals for the reversal of regional reform both in 2017 and this year, and what the two consultations have in common is that nothing new has emerged once. I still don't think we've heard anything new from the opposition during the debate that's been going on until now. On the contrary, it seems that several of the representatives choose to re-use the posts that we have heard before when dealing with this matter. I also record that there are quite a number of opposition members who have signed up for postage after me, so I hope there are some from the opposition who can give me a clear answer as to what is new in this case, what has changed in the last year, which means that you are now going to reach a different conclusion than what a majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy has come to before. I am unfortunately also afraid that no one is going to answer that, precisely because nothing new has come up. Although the opposition does not agree with the majority's decision, the majority of the Grand Duchy must also be respected. Now the different counties are doing well to plan the new organisation, organize choices and build better services for people. By creating uncertainty about the reform, the opposition is helping to create uncertainty for the thousands of employees around Norwegian county municipalities, and also for all those who will vote in the county elections next year. Now, once again, this year before Christmas, I can say that we have to put the fights behind us. It is time to implement it by a majority in the Great Britain has said repeatedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1583	What is new in the matter is that there are more and more things going on, the unreal thing that is happening now. People ask, why in the world is this happening? I have no good answer. If I were to try an answer, it is because it is an important step for the long-term plan of the EU's peoples on the Europe of the Regions, where one is to divide Norway into regions to replace the nation state, as a piece of Europe's United States. That was the debate in the 1990s, when the Right People made it clear in this room – I remember well, the State Council of Malta. People don't understand what the government's plan is. They gradually understand that there is a centralisation of power, and that it is thus a centralization of activity, but the government calls it ‘to promote democracy’, and it should be cost-saving, in the same way as the near-police reform. That the government dares! That the government dares to do this when you have the experience of police reform, where the professionals now experience – to the degrees – that it is not true, what the government is doing. It's "fake news". A critic of Trump for "fake news", but we don't have to go beyond our own government, which presents case by case for anything other than what it actually is. It is forced in all three counties of Buskerud, Eastfold and Akershus. Norway has never been divided in this way. Three states are no natural community. When the Right parliamentary leader is asked by his elected representatives in Buskerud about what is common in the Viken, the representative of Helleland answers that it is a good thing that runs over Svinesund to Sweden. Yes, it is quite precise – there is no better answer to this. It doesn't have popular support, people shake their heads. It will destroy the government, for those who are going to sit in the county are going to have a permanent job next door – and then they are going to be ombudsmen from Halne to Halden! Anyone who has tried to be the Ombudsman understands that there is a task that an impossible one can do. No, there won't be fights here, but there will be another fight, and it's called choice. We're about to go to the elections, and those who vote for this are right. Therefore, the voters who want to do so must vote on the right. It's the party of this madness. Those who want to do something about it have a powerful tool in the Center Party. We have to stop this. This is never going to fly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1594	This is a strange and entertaining debate: rematch, rematch, rematch – June 2017, December 2017, October 2018 and now here today. There is not much new to this room. That's impressive. There is an echo from previous debates: the same argument, the same theme – very, very little new. I'm a little concerned about whether the opposition actually understands the processes of change and the challenges involved. There are very many places with the conversion and merging the state, but there are also challenges for some places. The representative Sivertsen of the Workers' Party actually pointed that out himself. There are challenges for adding, for service production in Finnmark, but what are they doing? It's a rematch, a rematch, a rematch. I had actually expected more of a state-leading party that wants to take responsibility for society and be a governing party. The representative Knutsdatter Strand of the Center Party says so nicely and wisely that the Storting must respect the elected governing body. But who is competent to adopt the state structure? That's the Storting. So maybe the Center Party itself should start to follow exactly what they mean. Then they're out saying the state has done wrong, and they're going to report the state like that, and point things out here. But who are they going to sue? Is it the government that does what the Great Government has told them to do? Or is it the President who's going to court and answer for what the Greatness has done? The representative Sivertsen of the Workers' Party said it quite well in the previous case, as he recalled the term "all power in this hall". And I agree: we've made decisions, the decision is legal, the majority in Stortinget thinks it's a legal decision. I really think that only one person has to realize that the battle has been lost. What we have experienced here today is not fruitful at all for these matters. It's due to be added, it's for elected locals, it's for residents locally. Now it's about stringing up the sleeves and doing a good job on behalf of the inhabitants. So what we're doing here, it just doesn't consume society. I must say that the best post I've heard today was from Torhild Bransdal from the Christian People's Party. She said that the opposition is killing respect for the decision of the Storting. I'm in complete agreement. You can only see that the layer has been lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1609	This seems to be a sad day for Norwegian democracy, because if the Stortinge adopts coercion today, it is a great overrun of local democracy, of the people and, in particular, of the two Nordic states. There is no doubt that the process has been bad on the part of the government, when you come almost overnight with suggestions that the solution in the north is to merge Troms and Finnmark. Several have also questioned the legality of the decision. I hear some representatives say that all mergers are treated equally. That is not true, because Troms and Finnmark were not heard in the case before the decision was taken, and no investigation was carried out, as it was in connection with the other mergers. But since the government had almost thought of a number, one had to make some decision about North Norway. The alternatives were one North Norway, Nordland and Troms, or Finnmark and Troms. It seems to me that you have put three weights in your hat, and then to draw what alternative the government should choose for the Left to be satisfied. I ask myself, how would one have reacted if an administrative body had published its decision before the case was prepared and investigated, or if a court had passed judgment without having heard or seen the evidence? The least to be expected by the legislative body in Norway is that it complies with the law. I'm from Troms, who is now adopted coercive with Finnmark. I don't know if everyone knows how big North Norway is. From the northeastmost point in Finnmark to the southernmost point in Troms, it is 1,075 km. It takes 16 hours to drive a car – if you are lucky. Yes, it's actually shorter to drive through Finland, if you choose that option. What was the issue that occupied people in the north of the election campaign? This was one of the biggest issues in the election campaign in the north, and then it might not be very strange when you look at the uprising of the Left and Christian People's Party in the northernmost states, that it was not very big, nor very strange that the Right went back dramatically. The reform we actually need is a trust reform in which the state of Norway once again has confidence in those who actually do the job, that they know what they do, without centralizing and red tape society, whether it be the police officer, the teacher, the business owner, the local politician, the plumber, the fisherman, the farmer or the nurse. The reform of the government is as far away from a reform of trust as you can come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1624	There is reason to stay a little longer at what the representative Eirik Sivertsen said at the end of his post, which I think was forward-looking and so far points forward by the Workers' Party taking the ball when they have lost in this thing. We have to remember that we adopted this in the previous magnification. We've now confirmed it three times in this magnification. Then it's probably time that we started to get this in claim. The opposition points out that this – especially in Finnmark – creates uncertainty. There is uncertainty for many municipal employees about what will happen tomorrow. I really think it's a mockery of those who are employed and have safe jobs. It's none of us from the position that's created uncertainty around it at all, but the opposition makes up its degrees to create that uncertainty. I wonder – I really have to say – if not fifty new tasks, to which the State Council of Malta referred, are of importance. It's attempted ridicule, but I think it's of great importance. I thought that not least the Center Party, who has been busy moving power and authority down, in many ways would welcome this. No, everything should be the same. But it's no longer going to be the elected ones down in the systems if we don't take any action, and we do now. There are some claims in this room that I must refer to – not least about the Sameting, which should not have been consulted. It is strange – when the open consultation meeting on 2 May 2017 confirmed that it had been consulted on the regional reform. I think that kind of statement is unfortunate. There were those who called it "fake news". Yeah, that's the party that's probably the most related to a certain party in the states, that says it. Questions have also been asked about whether preparedness was assessed. Yes, of course, preparedness was assessed. It includes, inter alia: the county and county are now in the same area. The levels mentioned in the report disagree with the conclusion that the existing limits are somewhat less consistent. That's why we have to look at schemes that make the regional country's division equal. The representative from Finnmark says that the position has a responsibility. Yes, of course. That's why we make sure that there's a choice, the possibility of it, in Finnmark. If the county council comes to the same conclusion, of course, it's very good, but we as top level bodies have to make sure that these things are going to be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1637	A few days ago, the president had to take a vote again because the vote did not reflect the real will of the Storting. That's what I'm afraid is also going to happen today. Today, we are debating and voting again on the consequences of regional reform – a reform that will create major differences in and between Norwegian regions. Some – Oslo, Rogaland and More and Romesdal – remain with their geography and their population as today, while others become giants at a distance, such as Troms and Finnmark, or in the census, like the Viking. There is, with respect to reporting, no logical context in what the new regions look like. It serves the architects with very little honor – in fact, so little honor that it is difficult to find someone who defends the result with life and light, rather than with logic. That is exactly why it would have served this assembly if the party groups had been released today. Already in February, there was talk of rematches from the representatives of the Christian People's Party. Already in February this year, one of the birth helpers, Knut Arild Hareide, said: «Many have problems seeing the Vikings as an optimal region. I have it too." It was on 10 February. He followed up that he believed the government parties meant this, and supported the claim that the government itself had taken the initiative for another division for Nav in the Viking. Not many weeks ago, Groningensretten Geir Jørgen Bekkevold followed up, saying, «When it comes to the Viking, the Christian People's Party is not the constellation of the Christian People's Party. If there's something we really scratch in the fingers after doing something with, it's that region right there." And then you wonder why we're trying this thing again! In the Right and Advance Party, they have not been as clear outwards, but on two hand, both the construction of the Viking and the regional reform are given the hat to suit when talking to local representatives. This is, of course, due to the lack of logic in both regional reform and the Gulf. Regions are created without a historical community, regardless of the map, regardless of what is actually natural housing, labour and administration areas, to use the government's own herb to merge the counties. It would have been okay if the Greatness's real will was expressed today. Then probably neither the merger of Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold nor Troms and Finnmark would be anything, precisely because the majority actually does not see the logic and the appropriateness of these structures. These are the children themselves the parents don't want. In localisation cases, most parties tend to set their representatives free. The regional reform is primarily about the location of workplaces and settlements. Therefore, set the representatives free, so that we get the real will of Storting!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1654	I have heard several representatives wonder why we have to discuss this again. Well, it's because it's an unusually unwise decision that's made, and in the longest of all, most of us hope that you'll make sense. I will promise both the representative Trellevik and the representative Bransdal that there is little respect for the coercion you have been subjected to in these states. They don’t create respect for the Storting, these decisions – it’s head-fearing when you first understand what has been adopted. "You're lying," people tell me when I tell them what's adopted. You don't get it. I'm elected. I have been promised and asked to make a final attempt to stop this, among other things. with the reasons given by previous speakers, that the Christian People's Party has sent some signals that they might be willing to change sides, but also that in some of these structures it was not really possible to understand what they had been involved in adopting. Yes, it is so poorly justified and so poorly crafted that there is reason to be greedy. There are several of us who are crying. That's right, but we have good reason. I hear that the Council of State argues again that now you have to get some units that work in terms of the labour market etc. I asked the Council of State instead, but she didn't answer, why didn't Akershus have a match with Oslo? That's the closest thing to you. It shows that this regional reform does not solve what is actually a problem, namely cross-border land and transport planning in areas with strong centralisation and large population growth. It's a real problem, but you don't solve it when you let Oslo pass and divide the Viking into two. In Hedmark and Uppland, this is not a problem at all — not at all. It was perhaps the representative Ørmen Johnsen from Buskerud who thought there was a common labour market in the Viken. I can at least say that it is not in Hedmark and Uppland. There are so many miles – there is no unit. And that's what this case should be about -- the geographical units that belong together, and within which it makes sense to solve problems. Finally, none of the new tasks proposed by the government requires any change in the state structure we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1673	I notice that the Progress Party has gone and hidden itself in this debate and is trying to say as little as possible, be as quiet as possible, so that people do not realize that the Progress Party will force its will, against the will of the people – the Advance Party, which has been in its programme and has been very clear about respecting referendums. So you ask the right-hand side if something has happened in the last few years. Yes, e.g. that there was a referendum in Finnmark there 87 p.m. by people said no, because they would stand as their own state. But no, the Progress Party that sits here in Oslo knows so much better than those up there in Finnmark. They don't understand their own best, they do, but we don't take the time to argue for it in the Progress Party. We're going to sit still, mouse still, and hope people don't see what we're actually doing. Then I hear Kristin Örmen Johnsen talking about horse and carriage and all sorts of other kinds of ridicule of technique. In the case of distances in Finnmark and Troms: if you are going to drive from Kirkenes to South Troms, it is approx. 12 hours by car. It's pretty far with horses and carts. Twelve hours in a car is a distance from Oslo to Bremen. It's not such a tiny little region, it's Oslo–Bremen. What is the point of the Right is that they also think Norway is too small. They don't just think Finnmark is too small or Troms is too small. They want Norway into the EU, because Norway has had the same borders since 1826. It is not an argument against Norway that Norway has had the same limits since 1826, because it has worked quite well for Norway that we have had the same limits since 1826. It's been a success story, it's a well-run country that works very, very well. But I know that the Right basically seems to think Norway is too small, because just as it gets big, it's going to be fine. The Christian People's Party is today indignant that we are taking a rematch, as they call it. Of course, we will take a fight when the Geir Tuskedal said in the debate here in 2017 that one has received ‘a solution that no parties agree with’. We've got a solution that no parties really want, and then the debate afterwards has shown that there are no people who want it either. We've got a solution no parties want and no people want, and yet you're going to force it through. The Christian People's Party says that people can lose respect for Storting's decision because we're taking this fight. People lose respect when you don't listen, when you don't hear, and when you overrun the people's will. This has been done in Hedmark and Uppland. It has been done in Telemark and Vestfold. It has been done in Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud, and it has been done in Troms and Finnmark. The Christian People's Party's own leader, Knut Arild Hareide, said in the media that he thinks the Viking is being divided, because it's a construction that won't stand over time. Those who believe that the debate on regional reform is over today, they are wrong. There's going to be a fight in the future too, because it's such a bad solution. This is not a solution adapted to what we have in Norway. There's no one on the street in Halden who with enthusiasm says that it's very reasonable that they should be in the same region as Gol. There's no one on the street in Vadsø who says it's really smart that they're going to be in the same region as Harstad, and someone doesn't find them on the Tynset who's cheering for them to be in the same region as Hadeland. This fight will continue. It's a bad solution, it's an expensive solution, and it's typical right-wing policy that creates centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1688	I thought I'd come up with some principal considerations for today's debate. First of all, with a rematch, that's what we might do, maybe 95 pst. of the time at Stortinget. Now we're in the middle of the budget. What is it? It's just a big fight – whether it's property taxes, whether it's abortion laws. We are also going to deal with constitutional issues, proposals to abolish the right of nobility, etc. It's a rematch on a rematch. So there's no point in itself. Rematch is just an expression of political disunity. It's totally legitimate. If you don't know what we're dealing with here on Stortinget, you could use a rematch argument. So I think that's an invalid point. But then it was a little bit more serious in the argumentation. What's really the question here is, is the Storting as a governing body. When a spring of 2017 at night decided that one should join Troms and Finnmark, I don't think one was aware that an actual administrative body, with the rules that apply to it. Section 8 of the Unbundling Act states that the government must resolve questions about a limit change or a limit setting before it can be proposed. The government confirms in spring 2017 that the distribution that was due there was not a complete distribution. A referenced only to different models, some sketches of how it could be joined together in the north. So one hasn't done it, one hasn't followed Section 8. Paragraph 9 says that the county council must express its opinion on aggregation or division on the basis of a settlement. It has not happened. That means that we are in a situation where the Storting as a governing body has not followed the laws that we ourselves as legislators have certainly to be followed. It's a very special -- someone might say embarrassing situation to end up in as a legislator. So what do we do? Who is it to control the Storting? I must say that it would be wise here for the majority of the committee to take proper account of the concerns that arose. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is responsible for verifying that the government and the administration comply with the laws and regulations of the country – in this case the Stortinget. We can't have it like that in this country that law says everybody has to comply with the law, except for us. It's a form of arrogance of power, an illegal arrogance of power, which makes the resistance of Finnmark and Troms legitimate and legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1701	The representative Tveiten Benestad talked about it absurdly. The absurd thing in this case is that the Storting must today adopt a state structure which is, in effect, opposed by a majority of the representatives in this Chamber. The absurd thing is that one should adopt a state structure which, in reality, is opposed to a majority of the parties in this Chamber. And the absurd thing is that one should also adopt something that is, in fact, the majority of the county councils and the majority of the population in the affected counties. That is the absurdity of today's debate. I also think it is entirely surreal that the spokeswoman of the Progress Party today is not even able to argue on this issue, but only owes it to the conciliation and tries to push it in front of him. Is that so for the Progress Party in all matters where a compromise is reached, whether that is for example. Robbery, immigration or other things, that they just knock out their hands and say that they don't want to argue for the case and for the compromise they have reached? In that case, it is extremely disrespectful to those concerned and to those affected by this Decision. I have noticed that so far there has not been a single FrP, except the representative of the Municipal Committee, who has managed to speak in this debate. It's been a year and a half since the first decision was taken. It is one and a half years since the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left adopted this structure. Reactions have been explosive. But none of these parties have listened. They have not listened to referendums in Finnmark. They haven't listened to the majority of the county councils. And they haven't listened to their own elected representatives. Among other things, the group leader of the Progress Party in Akershus, Vibeke Limi, has been a strong opponent of the whole idea. It is not being listened to today either. No, one just tries to put other representatives in place. There is something very remarkable patriarchal about the municipal minister's way of throwing himself into a kind of over-judgment, which encourages other national politicians to show responsibility. I would like to encourage the Minister of State to listen and to recognise the local people's right to fight against this centralization. If you're listening, you can turn around too. And yes, the government of Stoltenberg did it ten years ago. And it doesn't help to use it against us today, because that's what we think this government should also have been reasonable enough to do. Instead, they try to ridicule the resistance of the local population by producing the horse and the Kerre argument. It's not to believe how arrogant it actually is. The representative Holm Lønseth also said that nothing new has happened in the matter. It's just a referendum, just some matches that are against, and that wants someone to fight for them. And that's what the Center Party is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1714	What I am most concerned about in this matter – a matter that has been handled by the government in an amateur way, that is what many people have pointed out here today – is primarily the attitude of people to the political system and the confidence of politicians in general. It's the part that's worried and thoughtful when the waves of the nuke that appeared in the quiet water have settled down. There's been a lot of things lately. They've been in line, and they've rocked the people's confidence in the politicians. It's enough to mention the scandals, some of their personal nature, whether they're metoo-related issues, travel bills, party budgets, little transparency about their own budgets in the parties, the absurd cost excess in the construction business here in the house or decisions and so-called reforms that are not understood at all among the people most. It is then easy to point to the near-police reform, the rail reform and the local and regional reform. What makes the government not bring the people to the coercion of municipalities and counties? First of all, of course, the answer is precisely that: they are coercive. People don't like it. They don't. There's one thing that's obvious, and that's the order of the process. If I were to build a factory, would I then build a factory and then decide what to produce in it? I don't think so. I think I would first decide what to produce, and then I would have built a factory after that. Obviously, people react to it too. Giving tasks after you've got a lot of land and you've put lines on the map is a strange order. I think people see it, too. The Viking region, from which I'm chosen, I'm chosen from the old, good Busherud, is one of the most insane outcomes of this late evening work. People ask themselves, just as they ask the representative Karin Andersen, how is that possible? That's what they're saying to me. Has the majority of the Storing really adopted this here? Yes, they have adopted it several times. This smoldering structure around Oslo of 1.2 million inhabitants has been adopted – or they have adopted it. So the polls show that only a tiny minority support the Viking device. Only 14 pst. supports it in an opinion poll for the NRK. That's when I want to say, and this is specifically addressed to the representative Bransdal and the Christian People's Party, that it's not that people react to the lack of respect for a big decision from the past. What they're responding to is that you don't have the ability to turn around in important things. That mountain sweat rule might seem to me to follow the Christian People's Party, and that would give respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1727	I have been involved in this process from the very beginning. I guess I'm the only one who's been on the Municipal and Administrative Committee all along. When we debated this in the Chamber in 2017, it was the strangest debate I had ever had. And that's still the weirdest argument that's being presented here in the hall. The Labour Party and the Advance Party celebrated that they were then halfway down the county. They said that quite clearly from the pulpit. The Left and Christian People's Party celebrated that they had saved the county. If one had seen anonymized posts from that matter, one would have seen no one suggest that one would end up with the decision you made. It was a very scarce majority who adopted it, and the Christian People's Party had a clear prerequisite for tasks. Many have asked what has happened since spring 2017. A lot has happened since spring 2017. Among other things, soon all the Jutland communities in Norway have stated that this is an illegal decision. It is actually quite interesting that we in this Chamber make illegal decisions. There has been a referendum in Finnmark, and it was not a mere majority – it was 87 pst. which said no to the coup d'état. The Christian People's Party took a reservation that they would review this in connection with new tasks. The new tasks came now in the autumn. They didn't answer my expectations in any way. I just have to say that there was a lot that was listed, and most of it was either to be investigated or assessed, or parts of it were to be moved. There's been a big choice after this, a big choice that resulted in the government being dependent on both the Left and the Christian People's Party to have a majority here in the Chamber. The leader of the Christian People's Party has stated several times that the Viking is a hopeless construction. There are more in the Christian People's Party who realize what the vast majority of others realize, and the Christian People's Party would make a direction choice in the harvest. It was quite logical that the Central Party should then put forward these proposals. We are the representative of the people, and the people have asked us to take this to the Big One. I wonder what kind of globe some people are on when they ask why we don't want to cancel Agder and Trendelag for some reason. There's actually a significant difference between a coercion and a desired aggregation, as it is in the Agder and the Trøndelag, which of course we support. The representative of Skkelstad called this the greatest democratic reform. It started with 11 out of 19 county municipalities being completely overrun by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1740	It is important in this debate to take the experience into account from 1974 onward when we introduced today's county councils, but not least from the time of the red-green government, when they tried to implement a regional reform and started with the tasks. The experience from then on is that one got moved a little on some roads, and a transferred administration of royal crabs to the counties. It's not that one succeeded so violently in starting at that end, as the red-greens now speak for one to start with. Now let's try to do this in a different way and start with the geography. Some people have done it voluntarily, such as Trondelag, and in practice the Inland does it voluntarily. It was then the state councillor Knut Storberget and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum who launched the Inland Committee in August/September 2013, on the way out of government. It was one of the big rescue planks you launched in the polling of the election campaign. That was a good mandate. The Inland Committee has presented its report, and both the two Uppland and Hedmark counties are on their way to becoming one. The last time it was the statesmen who stopped the red-greens from moving on, so it's interesting to hear today that it's the Center Party that will take away from them all of the beauty and discipline and make them a pure administrative body. I don't disagree. There are many political tasks, where discretion is important to have in the political forums. So if we go to the Inland, what's going on there when you talk about centralization? The Arbeiderpartiet and the Zenterpartiet have agreed that we should have a hospital in an area as large as Denmark, as the name tends to be. In Denmark they have 16 hospitals, so why it fits with one in the Inland, the two parties have to answer for it. I note that the representative, Kjersti Toppe, who is a member of the Central Party's public health policy, is in stark disagreement with that. In the case of energy, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which governs both states, are in the process of accepting a merger between Hafslund and Eidsiva, and the production of power leaves the Inland and gets an address here at Karl Johan. There, too, there is a large-scale centralization. In the case of biogas, the counties do not take the task. You do not buy the biogas from the producers, which are the municipalities of Oppland and Hedmark – we could have put biogas on all buses in Hedmark and Uppland. There is one who is not able to do it, a seller of it to Oslo. [[The President clubs.]] So this isn't completely gripped when it's about reality. We are discussing symbolism and not reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1755	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1760	In the debate on the merger of Troms and Finnmark, I understand that it is painful for the Finnish markers to merge the matches. I think it's sloppy to go and tell them that their identity is gone, because it doesn't have to be. The geographic area that is Finnmark is going to continue to exist, and we don't have to tell them anything else here from this room than that there are two administrative levels to merge, just to make sure they get better services. I believe it is the task of the state to ensure that the prerequisites for proper administration are sufficient in all states. But are they in Finnmark today? I don't think so, but I know that the Finnmarks deserve as good services as those who live in other counties. You don't have this today. The Finnmarkings are less likely to complete secondary school. The statistics show that they have several holes in their teeth. They complain about multiple roadholes and greater distances between busses and other collective services, and they have fewer educational choices and greater distance from decision-makers and power. There is a need for larger and more robust county municipalities, also because Finnmark’s inhabitants deserve equally good services and power to decide on issues that are important to the regions, such as FOT routes and air services, which are now to be determined by the new county. I see that not all my colleagues from Finnmark agree with me that aggregation is a good idea. But I also know that because when the letter from Jan Tore Sanner came to Finnmark County, I was at the county council, and then we had that debate there. At that time, the county commodity rapporteur, who is now the staging representative of the Workers' Party, Runar Seestad, disagreed that this was something Finnmark wanted to go into, and one wanted Finnmark to stand alone. Unfortunately, this does not facilitate the proper management of Finnmark states in the future. They won't be able to get any more problems, and there's doubt that they're going to do the problems they're going to do today, as well as they could have done. We need resources from the outside, and I think Finnmark is stronger if we're going to fight with Troms. Then the students can get better education. We can think about the whole region in terms of collective provision, and in terms of FOT routes. We might have an opportunity to facilitate business in a completely different way than we've been able to do today, and the Finnish markers get the opportunity to be stronger like people by being part of a larger region.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1773	André N. Skjelstad from the Left served from this pulpit that the regional reform is the biggest democratic reform of 30 years. Obviously you have to hear a lot before the Left possibly falls out of the Storting at the next election. Presenting this at an evening meeting, where a map was drawn in an unusually bad light, so lamp lights, like a democratic reform, are simply 'fake news'. Christian People's Party Torhild Bransdal spoke of opponents of the conspiracy as populists and district enemy. I can tell you that there is not much populism on that island of 71 degrees north where I live, but I can report frustration, despair and most of all a feeling that those who rule the country don't care about us who live far away. Why don't we want to lock up in Finnmark? We were a multicultural state long before the word was invented. We've been struggling with our own identity – we'll be honest about that – our different languages and being Norwegian enough. We've learned to accept ourselves and be proud of what we are, whether we are the same, the Finns, the women or the Nordics – or a mixture of all of this, as many Finn Markings are. That's exactly why our identity is our own. We've fought it out ourselves. That's why we fight for it, and that's why we want the unique state to exist as a separate state. In terms of area: the fold is large, and there's a huge amount of people, but I can remind everyone that the merged Troms and Finnmark are three times larger in area than the Week. So if we're going to drive from north to south in the new state, which some of you want to merge and make, we're going to have to drive through another country. It says something about the distances. The position calls it a rematch. I call it representative, and I take my ombudsman role for the Finnish markers and for my own county seriously. And I think when it comes to the previous speech, it might be an idea to talk up its state and not talk it down. I have not claimed that the decision is illegal. I do not have enough legal competence to do so, but many people are concerned about it and believe that it is an unlawful decision. But what I'm absolutely convinced of, I don't need legal competence: it's an unusually poor decision for both people and country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1789	First, to the representative, Mr Olsen: I did not call the popular commitment to populism, but I called the politicians of the two parties populists in this matter, and I stand by that. The reform is today called a masquerade, and there have been many unfavorable words about it. But I hear no solutions – absolutely no solutions. What is the alternative to regional reform? Well, it's a dominant state, giant municipalities, and a bunch of bureaucracy. Is that what we want? Today's county councils rot. It was also said that there are many people who rise to speak for most people – the representative Lundtigen did. But who has the most defining power for people? It comes almost unisonably from the regions that come to me: we are clear, we will manage this regional democracy. Give us problems. But when the problems are now on the bet, the answer is just: No, it's too small and too small, it can just pass. We know that an organization that is going to develop needs to be in dynamic development, and then one might have to make some changes. Comparing with national borders here becomes totally unrealistic to me. This is not a reform that nobody wants. I can assure the Storting that the Christian People's Party and the Christian People's Party representatives will have this reform and have fought for it for a long time. On the basis of the democratic aspect, I am quite frustrated that there are some representatives in this Chamber who cast doubt on the judgement and integrity of representatives who want this reform. There is no one who has neither whipped nor forced any KrFs to vote as they don't want to. We agree on this, and it is based on the fact that this is a major democratization project. So we're honest to say that no, the division isn't optimal -- we could have thought of it in a completely different way. But here we're discussing roughly exclusively division, and there's not much progress or development in division. That's what we're going to do, which is important. Law – and what has changed? Finnmark has had exactly the same opportunities to respond as any other state, and it is significant that there will be a referendum after a legal decision has been taken. Who's responsible? I think someone should take a strong hold on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1804	Someone might hope that all the good things are three, four, or five, but in this case I don't think the saying is very helpful. Right-wing policies are based on placing power and responsibility as close as possible to the individual. That's why it's a point for us to decentralize tasks from the state to a popular regional level. The representative Lundtigen does not understand how 84 county representatives in Viken can be ombudsmen from Halne to Halden. How, then, does he think that we can be 169 here ombudsmen from the churches to Lindesnes? My company in Eastfold, and after every week the Viking, the representative Ole André Myhrvold, has stated on several occasions that he has never heard anyone who will defend the Viken region, and every time I have heard him say so, I have followed up with my arguments; but in this matter Myhrvold may not choose to listen to that ear. I find it both sad and regrettable that the representatives Myhrvold and Arnstad insinuate that I and others in particular. The right vote against our own conviction in this matter. I can say in faith and honour that I don't. The boundaries between Eastfold and Follo today appear to be an unnecessary obstacle to all of us living in the area. Even in Myhrvold's own region Inner Eastfold, there are many who are concerned about this. There are no reasons why a holding in Turkey should be subject to arrangements, regulations and requirements other than the holding on the other side of the county border. And it's a bad social economy when Akershu paves the country road into Eastfold's border and runs back the equipment and we do the same thing 14 days later on the opposite side of the county border. The same is true between Drammen and Asker, two of Norway’s largest municipalities, quite close to each other, but today they develop after two different planning systems without overall coordination. A common ticket and travel system on public transport is something we have been working for for many years. With the Gulf, this becomes a reality. The background for the regional reform was the creation of a better-adapted state-of-the-art structure for societal challenges today, and not least tomorrow, and the establishment of a strengthened societal development role. The Gulf will only be Norway's sixth largest state in the area, but it will be the largest state in population, and we will become a county municipality that gets some of the country's foremost environments of competence in many of the disciplines that we can and will be proud of. The leader of the centre party thought it was a bit of a thrill for the Viken to track on the street in Halden. I don't think the leader of the Center Party would find any more enthusiasm for Eastfold, if he had asked for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1817	The representative of Bransdal believes that the county council is rotting. Then I would like to ask: on what basis can she claim it? Furthermore, the representative, Mr Kjeseth, makes every effort to criticise decisions taken by today's assembly in Oppland. It only merges into the series of contradictions when the goal here is just to give the county more power. The representative of Bransdal is asking for further options. The Centre Party has made a number of proposals on this subject, including: in the event of a reform of trust and red tape. It would be our big step to change the way we work in the public sector, to regain confidence between people and confidence in professionals, and to reduce the bureaucracy that has evolved to simply have services for people. And there are far more measures the Centre Party would promote. I can recommend any representative to read the program of the Centre Party. But there is a basis for asking questions about where the Progress Party is in this debate. Is there anyone who is clear that they are opposed to state overruns, it is precisely them. Is there anyone who is clear that they are for most people, it is them – but not in this debate. If there's something that's sad, it's just the dramatic consequences this proposal will have when it's so clearly going through on a wobbly basis. Several representatives argue that it is a training and that they lack predictability for county municipalities. But still this is a drawing board policy. There are still county boundaries that are only proposed on paper, it has not been implemented, and we still have no plan for the real transfers. The real costs are now becoming more and more apparent as the different states are looking at what this will lead to. There has to be new construction, there has to be a change of administration and the employer's responsibility we also have in elected bodies. There will be greater struggles between the elected voters on the lists to be put together, and there is no doubt that the outer edges will be weaker in these battles. There will be fights between high schools, which unfortunately have tough challenges when it comes to demography and birth rates. There will be fights for the roads, which will not get better and better by themselves, and there will be fights for public transport, which already have challenges today. In addition, there is the task message with new tasks, which should be the basis for raising optimism and good opportunities for the future development of the new states. I almost experience it the opposite. There is at least nothing to recognize – whether or not to get new tasks. The aim must be the best possible services and the best possible everyday life for our citizens. Do we get that from coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1828	I have in no way intended to try to sum up the debate and had really not intended to take the word again in it, but I have to make comments on some of the things that have been said here. It is claimed that any progress or change is opposed. But if you want to change something, it should be certain, or at least an intention to change it to something better. If that's how a merger of Troms and Finnmark is so forward-looking, I have to say that a few hundred years ago it was a common region and hot Finnmark, and I don't think anyone will want to go back to that time. You stand on this pulpit and feel almost swirled – that someone is taking a rematch, that you don't understand that you don't accept. There was even a representative – I choose to see a little humorous about it – who was afraid she was going to die from this debate. We all have to make sure that no one does. The left was that they had suddenly become employees and the inhabitants of Finnmark's large figures. Then you should start listening, if that's the way to represent them. We're someone who's chosen from there, and we're trying to get the vision that's in Finnmark. It is right that the representative Haukland from the Right and Finnmark said that there is no full consensus in Finnmark, but people have said so, and then you have to discuss whether it was in time or not. If you in this room have the impression that this is primarily about political rematches, you really haven't, in my view, understood what it's all about. Then you haven't realized it, and you don't have respect for the popular commitment that's out there. If a single party had managed to mobilize in the way that the Finnmark population has done, they would not only have had a pure majority, we would have gone towards a one-party state, because that's the commitment, and then clearly you say from now on. It has also been claimed that we must understand, because there is a broad majority in this Chamber, it is well anchored in this Chamber. Yes, that's right, there's a majority in this room, and we have to take over, we have to respect that. Sometimes it's hard to get into a minority, but at last we have to accept it. But that's also how we have a right to resist as long as it's possible. And those who believe that it's so well anchored here, who are in the majority here, could have spent some time out of this house trying to create enthusiasm, understanding, anchoring. Once again, we, who want Finnmark to be their own region, have invited four of you to press through this decision. I hope you agree to that invitation, go to Finnmark, meet people and at least have such respect that you listen to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1845	Today we discuss the proposal of the Centre Party to: ‘promote that the county councils of Hedmark, Oppland, Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland, Vestfold and Telemark decide whether they wish to abolish adopted county mergers. In cases where one or both of the counties decide that they wish to abolish adopted county mergers, the Government is called upon to bring an action before the Grand Duchy for the abolition of these county mergers.» When it comes to Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, the Center Party does not see this as a voluntary merger. For this reason, together with SV and the Workers' Party, the Centre Party has voted against this at Stortinget in the past. In both counties, both in Sogn and Fjordane and in Hordaland, there was a clear commitment for the county to merge, for the first to become a regional reform, and for the second to have significant new tasks transferred by the county. This precept is not met. The pending tasks are not new and important. These are tasks that both county councils could be able to handle. The left side of the nest leader, representative Terje Breivik, signaled in the election, was that Westland would be transferred to hospitals. You don't think that is right. But the most important thing is that responsibilities and tasks that are currently assigned to the county are best taken care of if one is not merged. The county is both a service producer and a social developer with important responsibility for transport, road, further education, dentistry, culture and regional planning. One also gets fewer ombudsmen for his state. So is the combination of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane a happy marriage? In the Official Journal of Bergen today, we can read that state politicians in Hordaland are notifying them of the fact that the county council in Sogn and Fjordane today decided to transfer the axans in Sogn and Fjordane Energia to the municipalities. BT type in the lead: ‘The merger between Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane has become a bitter affair’. Spokespersons of the Christian People's Party are threatening counter-reactions, including: in the case of: location, if Sogn and fjords do not reverse their decision. I'm just saying, hey, where it goes! The majority in Hordaland for aggregation was scarce. It was 31 to 26 votes. Sorry, the requirements are not present. It's not like in the song – Å Vestland, Vestland, when I see you like that – because it's not a reality. Today's proposal to have the county take a new decision when the task message is now adopted is not a broken rematch or training; it is to take the local democracy and the peoples of Hordaland and Sogn and fjords seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1868	Once again, the Stortinget has to deal with the question of coercion of counties, not primarily because Norway has changed, but because the centralisation comrades have not. This was a poor decision that was made in late hours of the night with a few people present, who lack the popular anchoring, and the longer that has gone, the greater the resistance has become to the decisions taken. One overruns the people and the people elected by state, a layer of gigantic regions away from people's lives, and a layer of structures that lacks any connection and logic. New arguments that are presented just become defecated. A referendum in Finnmark, which shows that 87 pst. has voted no, is not stressed, but only that no, nothing has happened since the last time, there are no new arguments to be heard. The majority in general in the Week was as late as a few months ago, now in the harvest, clear that one would not continue his work, among other things. because representatives from the Progress Party were still against the decision of the Stortinget once – and have done so once again. But it's still as bad, it's still just as bad reason, and people don't understand the logic, people don't want to be on that project. That's why people still say no. I have to say to the representative Bransdal, who has been up here several times today: Has not the Christian People's Party had any kind of honesty with regard to what has been said in the process – when one has said that one would wait and look at the tasks before taking a final position on the structure, when their own party leader has said that the Viking as a region is not optimal? When the representative Bekkewold so late as a few weeks ago said that after doing something with the Viking, it was just a game for the gallery, was the decision really taken a long time ago? In that case, it is the Christian People's Party that has helped to give people false hopes by not listening to what has actually been the anti-representation, both in their own party and in the states that are affected. When people and elected representatives, both in Buskerud, in Akershus, in Eastfold and in many other states in the country, clearly say that this is not a logical structure, that this is not a structure that has its own future – yes, then a failed fundamental.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1879	The representative André N. Skeleton has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1884	It is good to see that the representative Geir Adelsten Iversen is here, and I expect that he got some clarity when he fell down, but got hung up the Advent star. On 17 November 2018 it was stated in the Nations that Geir Adelsten Iversen compared this decision, which is now confirmed again today, to the fact that the Germans burned down Finnmark and withdrew. Geir Adelsten Iversen could now, at the very bottom of the debate, have the opportunity either to complain about what he said there, or to say that this is not correct. This, I think, has helped to disguise the debate, especially in Finnmark, because this has definitely never been the intention of the Stortinge. After all, we want to strengthen Finnmark, and I find it very regrettable that such claims are made by a magnificent representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1891	Of all the bad grounded centralisation reforms Right and the Progress Party are behind, the regional reform is the most amazing. The reform is characterised by state overarching and dictates, and very few, both in this room and outside, have offensive arguments for mergers. Local resistance and critical questions are rejected by saying: This has been decided by Stortinget – so it is! The regional reform shows weaknesses in political compromise where conflicting positions are attempted to coordinate. The Right Party and the Progress Party will bring down the County Municipality. That's their long-term goal, and that's an honest thing. The Christian People's Party and the Left want fewer and stronger regions. It is also an honest matter, but the compromise will then be something that none of them have wished for. What we end up with is fewer but more heavily driven bureaucratic and weak regions that are distant from people more than today's county councils are. The big, heavy tasks that should be the basis for this reform are essentially waiting. Here you want to organize and evaluate it more. There will be new battles and rematches between the four parties, which are deeply dissident about the arrangements for this reform. It applies both to tasks and to the economy to implement them. Fights and rematches will come in every single budget for years towards the 2021 elections. What if the Left and Christian People's Party falls out of the Grand Duchy at the election in 2021? There is then no one in this Chamber who is in favour and will defend the content of this reform. Is regional reform a way of life for the future? No, it's short and well not all that can be compromised. If you have a problem building a bridge, you have to make a choice. One cannot reach a compromise and say that a builder builds a bridge halfway over the spring, and once the Storting has decided so, it is a decision that says, and we have to implement it. I'm a pretty practical man. It happens that we at our house don't agree if we're going to send a sheep to slaughter or have him as a live animal. Then we have to make a choice. We can't send the sheep to slaughter and say we're going to have half home alive and half as meat. There is no way in the meeting with reality – and this is how this reform is organised. But millions who could have been used to improve educational provision for young people or to invest in forward-looking infrastructure, such as broadband, are used for distribution, consulting services, administrative processes, courses, seminars and meetings. Thousands of additions are caused by changes that result from a compromise that is not life-created. Sogn and Fjordane are life-created – it's not regional reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1904	In the new county of Viken, which I belong to, you've come a long way to join three counties. We are already working on how to get a seamless public transport for the entire New Week, together with Oslo, and how to bind the Week, which is essentially a common housing and labour market, even closer together, even across the fjord, with public transport. It's already working on how high school and college students will get an even better offer and more choices, because the county line, which was before in the way, is going to be gone. For many students, it means both several choices and shorter travel routes. Work is already under way on how the new county municipality can contribute to industrial development and new jobs, based on the advantages of the Viken. The fold offers many new opportunities, not least in terms of climate and environment, and the ambitions are very high. Akershu County has just decided that we want the Oslo region to be the world's first metropolitan region with only zero-emission transport, and we have invited Oslo and Viken to join forces to succeed. When the new states get more responsibility and more instruments for climate and environment, both speed and ambition are increasing. I'm looking forward to the new Viking state is a reality in just one year and all the new opportunities it offers. The size has decided to merge the counties and to transfer new tasks from the state to the new counties. The left believes that this is a necessary and positive change. Major regions with more tasks and more powers involve shifting more power and authority closer to people, more tasks under popular governance, more coordination across and across development in areas where we today feel that state silos and fragmented responsibilities are hampering good solutions and important developments. We believe that a larger and stronger, more responsible, elected regional body can succeed in ensuring the development of the region's own premises, based on regional advantage – developments that we are not today triggered. The reform of the region creates new opportunities in which today’s borders have previously stood in the way of good solutions. It's not very radical to make changes in the state structure. It's on the contrary in high time. A number of public investigations over the last 30 years have pointed out that this is necessary, because the world has changed a lot since today's county borders were drawn and since today's county councils were formed in the 1970s. It's not making changes to the county boundaries that are the most radical proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1925	To the last speaker, I want to agree that we have to change over time. But progress must also follow the law, and then we may be at the heart of the matter here today, on the issue of Finnmark and Troms. I'm making a complaint based on Professor Eivind Smith's complaint, which is the country's leading expert on constitutional issues. He said that it is not a legal decision that one has made in Stortinget when one joined Troms and Finnmark – not legally. The government has not cleared Troms and Finnmark, and the districts of Troms and Finnmark have not been heard. It's in the promise that one should. At present, the complainants do not have a single counter-argument. Think we're standing here, in the legislative assembly, and then the power can't justify why one is going to do this anyway. They can't come up with arguments to say: No, County, this is not right – this is a legal decision; no, Eivind Smith, it's not right – this is a legal decision. Think about it -- it's exceptional, and people should notice that. For a use of power it is. So to some of what's coming in the debate. The representative, André N. Skjelstad, claims that the representative, Geir Adelsten Iversen, is prejudging the debate. But André N. Skkelstad made the argument: Why does one react to this now? Then I just want to point out a very simple principle that a person cannot assume a right if it is valid, is not aware that one has a right. There is a basic principle in any state of law. Then he comes with the next argument, which is in the same value: Troms hasn't responded. But the fact that someone else doesn't claim their rights can't take them from anyone else right. So talk about prejudicing the debate. The representative Bransdal spoke of this as a democratization project. It's a smash lookup that almost should be clumsy. But a democratization project must, of course, follow democratic rules of play. I don't understand how to use that argument here in this room. Power is not a personal matter that you can do what you want to do. Power is given by the people and shall be exercised for the people, based on democratic rules of play. Something so fundamental is abandoned in this case, and I am asking everyone to notice. We in SV will follow the case to the bitter end until it becomes legal and proper.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1943	The President would just like to inform us that no one should prejudge the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1948	I didn't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1953	No, but it was named. No one should prejudge the debate, nor does anyone need to lengthen the debate unnecessarily. [[Muntering in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1958	Thank you for having us debaters, President! Professor Eivind Smith, recognised in state law, had an article in the NRK Opinion where the impression was, ‘If the Storting doesn’t like its own rules, it should change them instead of breaking them.’ It is true that the Progress Party is not in the Chair, but it is also interesting to see that the Members of the Right Group are not in the Chair either, those who should be really excited about this. The representative, Tage Pettersen, has been to the pulpit. He said it should be possible to be an agent for the new Week, because there were four agents there. My point was that the representatives in the county are not full-time politicians, as far as I know. They have a job, they have a full job, so they have to have a full job next to them as agents of 1.2 million people from Halne to Halden. Most people understand that it's going to go very badly. This project does not have popular support. State Council of Malta says that there is great enthusiasm and people warn against national noise. It is clear that we associate quite different people – quite different people. It's important that we get the debate around the different arenas, and we see which people we represent. The truly responsible person for this project is, of course, the Roupstad in his Christian People's Party-fleet, who is implementing this, and is able to secure a majority for it. In a county election, it is important to have a common debate venue. The NRK has been the joint debater. Is it now that there is to be a common Week for debate in the NRC? If not, what should be the common debate area, so that we can bring out the disagreements? Inconsistency between the Storing Selection Circle and the County Election Circle – I, as the representative of Buskerud, will not follow the decision in the Week on transport priorities, because I am the representative of Buskerud. I'm going to take care of Buskerud – I'm not going to take care of the Viking. It's my role. State at state level – it's a wonderful patchwork. Preparedness has been identified earlier. Recently, during this discussion, the government in the Nav region has chosen to organize Nav in our area with a Nav-Viken and a Nav-Viken – once again a different division from what we are doing here. This is an organisational model that is so bureaucratic and will involve so many small bosses and big bosses and so much cost that it will not fly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1975	I want to follow up the representative Knag Fylkesnes a little bit on this with the legal. Professor Eivind Smith is not anyone. He wrote this famous statement at the NRK Opinion in July, and he has got very little legal resistance or response. That's what it says. It's going to be very exciting to see that development in the future, who's taking up the legal handle of those who feel the most affected. Finnmark? Yeah, maybe it'll be Finnmark. Will there be circles in the Gulf? I don't know. What does the Riksadvokat do? It's going to be very exciting to follow. I believe that for us who are very skeptical of what has happened – to say it mildly – around the Week construction, perhaps the legal track is what is most exciting to follow from now. I still want to guest the representative Bransdal a little. I think she had a good explanation of opinion so far. I don't think she distinguished this from what the regions are going to do, and what we are now discussing, the division of the regions. That's clearly a big difference. I would very much like to discuss the content of the regions, what they're going to do, and that's what we're going to get to the hall pretty soon. That'll be interesting. We like to give them more nutrition, for example, it's very, very important. We can discuss health. A lot of people know SV's attitudes about it – I was saying – the company model that exists. But that's not what we're discussing first and foremost. That's the order of this, and that we're dividing areas by some kind of randomness principle, as many of us see it. Once again, based on the debate about what the regions should contain, we might be interested in discussing regional division, but that's this famous order. So many people ask themselves what this aggregation will cost, and that's a very exciting question. I notice that the Council of State and the Department also answer that question to the Committee, and then it is said that it has been paid 15 million. kr per county for a coup d'état. Then we're talking about just acute expenses around the conversation meetings, to figure this out with the organization. I'm quite convinced that the sums of socio-economic things are going to be enormous. I'm not just talking about spending on the floors, I'm talking about the civil society that's organized at the current state level. I'm pretty sure we'll get a lot of the Viken, the Buskerud department, the Viken, the Eastfold department, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1984	It is an unfortunate parliamentary development that members of the Stortinget are putting up an annual rematch on the decision-making process. The centre party and the Labour Party have submitted proposals aimed at revising previous decisions, and that is what we call re-fights, even if the intention is good. I don't think we're getting any further. The division between people in Finnmark is getting bigger, and the heat is getting worse. The expression that someone is failing Finnmark is being thrown into the cabin and the weather. The representative Geir Adelsten Iversen of the Center Party was in the nation and compared this with the tactics of the burned earth, what the Nazis did when they left Finnmark. Is there not a limit to what to say in such a debate? These rematches also cost money, representative Arne Nävra. Fighters swallow the county's budgets. Expensive surveys that do not meet the requirements of the electoral law are one example of this. Now you're talking about engaging a lawyer against the state, also a rematch that costs money. The same applies to numerous visits to consultations to examine Document 8 proposals submitted in this Chamber. This goes beyond the services of citizens. The rematches have a price to pay for the residents. Being an agent to have unnecessary rematches in Stortinget also has a price. The currently running process will be stopped pending retreatment of the Size layer. One sees a hope, the county of Finnmark is postponing the appointment of members as members in common, and one has to look at how the treatment in Stortinget is going. The process doesn't get any further. But the majority of the Storing has not changed, and this means that you get started later. The uncertainty of those employed in the county council is increasing. I believe that the wings of the Storting in this matter make the merger matters more difficult, and this must be the responsibility of the parties that have submitted these proposals, even if one disagrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e1997	Rarely have I heard a disclaimer from this pulpit that the representative of Marianne Haukland just said, that her view was that representatives must respect the will of the people and not least take to heart the new information that has come if you want to have new discussions. The representative at Skkelstad said that they should spend time on something else. To that, there is only one thing to say: No, one should spend time maintaining democracy, one should use the time to have respect for the rule of law, and not least one should take the time to review the legal considerations that have come from some of the country's foremost legal environment on administrative law. It's really eye-catching that the Storting is doing something else. It is especially true that it is up to the opposition to ensure that the processes run as they should if the government were to achieve its dream of the great mergers. If the government had done the job they should have done, it is quite right – as at least some of the representatives have been involved – that the possibility of so-called rematches might not have been used. But when new elements and new ideas are constantly emerging and more and more questions arise as to what the Stortinget is doing, then the basis for rematches lies there. If you go to the committee comments on this matter, it is interesting to see that the minority, the representatives of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, who have been relatively little present in this debate, believe, but cannot show that there has been no breach of the law of division, while there is a prominent legal environment in this country that says the opposite. You should have taken that seriously. It is tempting to visit the representative Ørmen Johnsen when she believes that the centre party is in a glass house. When I heard the post, I wondered if she had heard of the expression ‘ball shock in a phone booth’. At least one should be careful to characterise the attempts of others to have a proper democratic process such as sitting in glasshouses and throwing stones. It does not serve the debate at all. The issue today should have been what the proposals are about, namely that new elements have emerged. Unfortunately, it has not done so in many ways, and it is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2010	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2015	I understand very well that the Progress Party does not need either to be in the hall or to say anything. They sit still because the Christian People's Party and the Left do the job for them. The Progress Party wants to bring down the counties. The construction we get now will contribute to it. The Christian People's Party and the Left have also helped the Progress Party when they have systematically cut regional development funds in the last five years, so that the county councils are less able to do their job. The representative Bransdal says the county councils are rotting. I've never heard anything so strange. My county council is bustling, but it's struggling because there's been cuts in the budgets, which puts hookbones on what they want to do. They include: had a big stake in broadband – not thanks to the government, but thanks to the fact that they have done a great job for business and their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2022	It is repeated to the bleakness of the fact that rematch is undemocratic. What is undemocratic in this game? Is it crossing 11 out of 19 state municipalities that are undemocratic? Is it to refuse to listen to the people in a referendum that is undemocratic? Is it undemocratic that we, as representatives here in the Chamber, use the opportunities we have to make representation proposals? We have completely different perceptions of what is a well-functioning democracy – that is quite clear. The representative of Skkelstad accused the Central Party of wanting less local democracy and less district politics, for this was probably the solution to both. That was the democratic reform of the times. The centre party is not opposed to the regional reform. The centre part will have new tasks for the counties. There are none of the tasks proposed by the government or proposed by the Hagen Committee that require a change in the state structure. We haven't sent out the questionnaire yet, but I think I can promise – if there are no surprising new comments – that the Senter party will be the one with the most proposals for new tasks for the counties, and it's today's counties very well equipped to take care of. I also have to pay a visit to the representative Bransdal, because I thought she said so clearly that today's county councils are rotting. I don't know which county councils she's looking for, and I hope she can clarify it. My opinion, having been in the municipal committee for eight years and traveling around Norwegian county municipalities over the eight years, is that these are well-functioning organisations. All of them are doing their jobs very well, and they're delivering good services to the people. So I want an example of a county that doesn't. It was also said by the representative Bransdal that many want the reform and that the county councils applaud it. Yes, the county councils that have been respected by the Stortinget and that have got their will through, whether it is we in the Trondelag, who get to join us voluntarily, or Rogaland, who gets to continue for themselves voluntarily, applauds the reform. But those who have been overrun and not heard by Stortinget, do not. Finally, I would like to make a small explanation of vote: the centre party does not support the proposals from the Red Party. We cannot support the repeal of decisions unless the county authorities themselves wish to do so. Nor will we support the Green Party's proposal to investigate a division of the Gulf, as none of the states concerned has taken the initiative in such an investigation. But if there is such an initiative from the three states, we guarantee that the Central Party will follow it closely and take decisions in line with the local decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2035	The representative Torhild Bransdal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2041	I would have a zero behind that one to answer all the challenges. The county is rotting. The county council has few tasks today, and it's hard to get that commitment you should have. A lot of investigative work is done that doesn't end up in that much. The county councils are yelling for more tasks, and that's the background to my opinion. You wait and look at the problems before you make a decision, that's what we've done. The agreement that exists is a good floor for having viable regions in the future. It is said that the Christian People's Party is unfair to positions and politics, but we want that to be the power of definition. If the Christian People's Party and the Left fall out of the Storting in 2021, no one supports the reform. But if the Center Party gets it the way they want it today, the districts will be confused and the population will go down. Is that what the Center Party wants? The ability to turn things around is important, but we turn around when we think we've been wrong. Here we actually think we're right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2056	The representative of Ingarill Olsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2061	Why do some Finn Markings use the rhetoric about coercion related to forced evacuations? It's actually something I've also thought about, because a lot of people use it. I don't know if I have the right answer to that, but I think some of the reason is that when we had the burnt earth's tactics, it was an extremely shell-setting event. I can't find any answer that so many people use the strong metaphor, except that this feels like a huge attack, and it also shows how sensitive this is. I recommend Skelstad from the Left to reflect on why so many Finn Markings use forced evacuation as an image on what you're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2068	I just want a little swing into the representative Bransdal and the Christian People's Party. In an earlier case today, I realized that she said that the Stortinget should not be a supremacy government, but in this case it is clearly okay for the Christian People's Party and the representative Bransdal to be a supremacy government, because they force the county councils, and they do it without blundering. I record that to date it is not a single post that has defended the logic of the Week-combination – not a single post has defended the logic of the Week-combination. On the other hand, there has been a lot of sutling from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left about this. Then I just remind you that if we discuss rematches, maybe right is the best example of those who are now showing the ability and will to take rematches on things. I see that when I went up here, the government council had not pressed the button and asked for the word. But in the debate, the Council of State has received many questions from this pulpit, and I would also ask: What does the Council of State think that Nav has to be divided into two in the Week? Will the Council of State turn the Viking into a police district? Does the Council of State mean that the Viking is a region of residence and work? And does the Council of State think that the argument that we should get more equal counties is fulfilled when the government leaves Rogaland and More and Romesdal alone, while the Week is being joined? Does the Council of State think that the argument that we're getting more equal counties to deal with equal problems is being fulfilled? I hope the Council of State can get women up to press the button and answer these questions and gladly the others who have come from this pulpit today. I think it would be very good if the Council of State could do that. But I note that the chance might not be so great, because she started the line exchange today trying to escape the whole case by saying that this was the Storting decision – it was not the government's decision. It says that even the Council of State can't defend anything in this laphouse of a regional reform with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2079	There's been a long debate, and maybe one shouldn't take time to extend it. But I want to make a few comments. I think, for a while, the opposition is drawing a picture of a reform that is not recognizable, and I need to remind you that this is a whole national reform. If a person withdraws individual mergers from the reform, as a number of representatives propose and call for, the reform conditions will be changed. We do not want that in the Right. Furthermore, I would also like to say that some representatives tried to form a picture that Troms and Finnmark have been treated quite differently from the other county municipalities. That's not true. In the right, we're concerned that we keep the whole of the structural decisions that have been made. And with respect to reporting, I think it's a little weird to listen to the Center Party, which is talking about centralisation in all posts, when this reform is actually about new tasks and responsibilities for the districts. It's about decentralization for me. I hear – just as in the debate we had on 7 December last – that many criticise the Christian People's Party. For my part, I would say that the Christian People's Party has stood for its views and decisions in this matter, and I believe that it actually stands for that. It also gives predictability. When this day is over, I hope we can raise our eyes and look forward, both from the side of the position and the opposition, and help to make the existing state structures serve both people and businesses across the country. We can actually contribute to that through the way we're dealing with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2094	Yesterday there was a book on the so - called near - police reform, written by several professionals. The conclusion was that all the great words to the government about a near-police reform were wrong, and that it has become a remote police reform – that is, centralisation. And when I hear the posts from the Right today, which say this isn't centralization, it's just as wrong to call it a near-police reform, because that's how if you centralize, that's actually what you're doing. This is centralization. But then there is something wonderful about this debate: Where has the Progress Party actually been hiding? Is this an emphasis on how the Storting should be in four years' time, that there should not be so many Advance Party voices anymore? There is no one from Uppland – Morten Ørsal Johansen has been hiding. His Andreas Limi has not dared to say one word, for he is terrified that the wife, Vibeke Limi, will say that what you said today, was unwise. But, of course, he's really opposed to the regional reform, just like the wife says. And Tor André Johnsen from Hedmark usually does not be so very careful to say anything, but today he has walked around the corridors of the Stortinget and tried not to get into the hall. And then we have Buskerud: Engen-Helgheim is sitting there – I have to be quiet, I can't say anything. Usually he is quite as tall and dark, but he does think this is a bad thing to go up and take the word for. I could have continued with the whole list; there are no Progress Party representatives who dare to say a single word. And then it's Strifeldt from Finnmark, there's 87 pst. of the people of his own county have said yes to Finnmark, no to coercion. The party of progress has gone to the elections to respect referendums, and so he does not even dare to enter the Chamber and explain why he should vote against 87 p.m. by the population of its own country. That's bad, Strifeldt! But I'm going to Vadsø to week, so if Strifeldt wants to meet me for debate in Vadsø, I would like to have a debate on this – in front of Finnmark's own population – and discuss why it's so wise that he, as a Finnmark representative, is not even able to take the floor in this debate, who has said that he should respect referendums and have been very high and dark on it. It's amazing. Then we see that no one in the parliamentary leadership of the Right, no one in the leadership of the Christian People's Party, no one in the leadership of the Left, no one in the leadership of the Advance Party, no one in the leadership of any of the parties who force this through, comes and takes the floor, because they see that this is a bad thing. They want to have the least quote possible, because they see that the construction of the Fold is out of time. They see that forcing Finnmark and Troms, where a few distances from Oslo to Bremen, are not a good solution. Therefore, one wants to give away the least possible quotations and hopes only that Monica Meland will take the noise. I look at her body language that she thinks, "No, Erna Solberg, why did you let me get this particular job, this may not have been the funniest part of my political life." But that's sometimes how it is to be a councillor. But my fellow representatives: vote now what you really mean, and then you don't vote for the Viken, then you vote for Østfold, Buskerud, Finnmark, that we have that diversity, because it's a bad solution that has now been forced through. Or as Geir Tuskedal said: It is a solution no parties really want – and no people want it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2110	The President fully understands that this is a debate that arouses great emotions, but I think we should all be a little careful about how we characterize other representatives here in the Chamber from the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2115	The representative Haukland says that the Finnish markers have several holes in their teeth – as if there were an argument for merging. Should the Finnmarks get fewer holes in their teeth by flying to Troms for treatment? I think that can be very expensive. The representative of Haukland should also be concerned with strengthening the decentralised dental provision in Finnmark. But the representative Haukland should have boasted of being the only one from the position on the North Norway bench who has taken the floor in this matter. The others are shining with their absence. A democratic reform, the government and the Christian People's Party have argued with during this debate. Is it democracy to take a decision behind closed doors without taking the people's opinion seriously? The opinion of the people was strongly proved when Finnmark held a referendum. The result was 87 pst. No such folder. In Troms, polls showed that 79 pst. is against coercion. Can one call this a democratic reform? In that case, it's making the people of the north laugh. The opposition, the commitment and the people's uprising in North Norway have been great since the government launched the coercion of Troms and Finnmark. I am concerned about my part of the country, I am concerned about political cooperation in the north. We already see a great deal of disagreement between the states and, not least, the challenges that will come with the enormous distances that are in the two northernmost states, which we fear will lead to even more centralization and services being moved even further from people. My question to the Christian People's Party and the government is: if one knew that the resistance in Troms and Finnmark was so great before the decision was taken, would one then be forced through this process? If the answer is no, then you have one thing to do, and that's to listen to the people and reverse the decision on the coercion between Troms and Finnmark. But if the answer is yes, then I say as Astrid Lindgren, when people with power stop listening to people, then it's time to replace them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2126	After several debates in this Chamber, I have tried to get hold of and gripped by how the figures of the government parties and also Prime Minister Erna Solberg think about our democracy. They won't listen to people and people elected in neither Finnmark nor any other part of this country. Government Party knows best - dot. They don't listen to the feet and trustees of the police when they warn of the weakening of the preventive work and the preparedness of the police outside the country. Government Party knows best - dot. They won't listen to the foot people and trust leaders in the Defense, who are critical of what's going on there. Government Party knows best - dot. And yesterday, in this room, we experienced that they also had a hard time listening to criticism from the Riks revision itself. But I have seen in one context that the Prime Minister has raised a democratic challenge in recent times. It was in connection with a process in the Christian People's Party, where she said in an observational interview in Today's Business today that she thought there would be a democratic problem if she no longer got to continue as Prime Minister. I want to quote her reason for it: ‘Many will be able to experience it as a lack of democracy. We have to make sure that we do not scald and electors with the confidence that the system is electoral, not elite-driven,” says Solberg. And a little bit further down: In Norway, we enjoy great trust between people and the political system, perhaps precisely because we have been good at finding consensus, working together and being predictable. It is now being challenged and it will affect the entire policy." I want to stay a little bit by the system being ‘chosen, not elite’, and that we need to ‘find consensus, cooperate and be predictable’. There is no good link to regional reform. It is not a selector control. The Right Party and the Progress Party went to the elections to put down the county municipality. Consensus and cooperation have not been sought in this room. One has gone to a small majority in Stortinget and asked for a connection to a scheme – or has negotiated a scheme – that no one really wanted. So we have an important reform that is based on hardly a possible majority in the Stortinget. There is something new from this government. It is not to search for cooperation and consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2145	The coercive mergers that the government will now implement – by Troms and Finnmark, by Hedmark and Oppland, by Telemark and Vestfold, by Buskerud, Østfold and Akershus, and by Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland – are nothing but a political achievement project, an extremely bad idea. It's going to move power further away from people. It's going to create huge distances. It's going to weaken confidence in democracy. There will be fewer elected people, fewer of the people's representatives in the counties, fewer who can represent the inhabitants, say their opinion, make decisions when they are. And they're sitting farther away from people. The reform centralises both money, power, services and – eventually – people, because that is what happens when all services and decisions are moved to the central strata and there is no longer anything left in the districts. Regional reform is part of that project. The proposal to lift the reform has today been called undemocratic by those of the Grand Duchy who will implement it. This is not undemocratic; this is the opportunity of the Greatness to give democracy back to the states. The majority of the population, at the Right, the People's Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, are in the process of overruning local democracy, overrun the will of the people, overrun popular opinion in large parts of the country. It is undemocratic. The fact that we take it up again in Stortinget was just to be missing. This is a reform nobody would have wanted. Countries that have merged would not have the reform. The counties have said no. The people have expressed their opinion in referenda in several states, and they have said no. The Right Party and the Progressive Party will not have a reform; they will reduce the regional level. Today, Torhild Bransdal has made an incomprehensible statement that the Central Party believes that the reform is bad, but for the class struggle on November 21st last year she herself said that the Christian People's Party is not so excited about the Viking. So we have it in white: no one wants the reform. It's time for it to be stopped. We have the last chance today. Christian People's Party, turn around in time!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2165	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2170	The representative Bransdal stated that the Central Party is killing respect for the majority decision of the Storting. At least I will give the representative credit because she has today been the only one present in the Chamber of the Christian People's Party in this matter, and has had to answer all the questions. She probably didn't have enough speaking time to do that, but she'll get the effort. The whole issue concerns the legal issue of the concerns raised and relevant to the political debate in the future. It's been chosen not to really take over. After all, it is no surprise that there is a hard reaction in Finnmark when, on 5 April 2017, when the government presented the proposition, nothing was heard about Nord-Norway discussing merger, while it was suddenly launched on 2 May. When we see the division law in the light of this, there should be room for taking a new round here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2177	I got hurt to say that I had not heard anyone defend the Viking with life and lust. I would like to apologize to Mr. Tage Pettersen, who did a good, half-hearted effort here instead. Having said that, I heard the representative Bransdal say instead that many welcome this reform. There must be representatives from Bransdal's own region, Agder, and Rogaland, who are not actually coerced together. There is a lot to say about regional reform, and you can always discuss tasks and content, but as people from Eastfold, I also have to say a few words about the consequences for a state that – if not in geography and perhaps not in the case of dental health – has many similarities with Finnmark. Eastfold and Finnmark are among the most unemployed in the country. In these countries, living conditions statistics are quite similar. The composition of the population is quite similar to that of the public health statistics. The representative Bransdal from the Christian People's Party says that there is not much progress in division. No, at least there is little progress in the division of the Week for Eastfold, where highly-needed skills jobs are now to be drained. The representative Tveiten Benestad spoke of this as a decentralisation reform. Yes, that decentralisation is about moving tasks and skills jobs from Sarpsborg and Drammen to guess where – as close to Oslo as you can get: Lysaker. It is the decentralisation reform of this government. You make even more people commuters. You make people get less time for their family because you have to sit and hop on a train or a bus or in a queue towards Lysaker. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the government's decentralisation reform. So this is how to solve the challenges in a state that is among the lowest in skills jobs and state and public jobs, such as Eastfold. You move it out. You drain it out. This is not a decentralisation reform. Call a spade for a spade, this is a centralization reform. That's exactly what the Right Party and the Advance Party want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2190	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2195	Since the representative Bransdal has felt hesitant about running out towards the Central Party, she also deserves to be answered for her question about our position on the role of the county council in the future. Two points – point 1: public administration of hospitals, hospital companies, where the government that owns must be represented by county council members who are responsible to people in elections. Point 2: A key line for the major reform of the future to vitalise the county must be that the county takes up the tasks that municipalities are too small to solve, cf. The right and Bond Party's historical position. It's a position that former councillor Heløe taught me, and it's a good line forward as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2200	My county, Hedmark, is now most likely to be merged with Uppland, against our will – in Hedmark – and against the will of Uppland. There will be a longer distance between people and decision-makers in Hedmark, there will be more centralisation, and there will be worse services. I have to put a question mark on the statements that the representative, Mr Kjeseth, made here earlier. If I did not misunderstand him completely, he said that the Inland is in practice a voluntary merger. How can you call it a voluntary merger when the people's will so clearly is a majority to maintain the state structures of today, and when the majority of both states went in to maintain the state structures of today? The representative, Kenseth, referred to the Inland Committee. The Inland Committee has made a report, and it says a lot of good, but it says a lot about the Mjøs region, and there's almost nothing about any other region. And that's what many are afraid about the Inland – that we're being centralised, that the Kongswinger region, the North East valley, the Valdres region and the Gudbrand valley are being marginalized and becoming more edged than today. I was in the county on the day of the arrival of the former municipal minister, Jan Tore Sanner, to announce that we had now been coerced. He did it, and then he gave us some advice. He said, "Let's talk about each other, think about the whole thing, and think about people." I would like to send that advice back to the government. Be generous with the inhabitants of Norway and the merged counties. Don't beat the states against their will. You should have thought about the whole thing, you should have started with the problems, started with the content, started thinking about why we're going to have a contraction, instead of creating the aggregation first. And you should have thought about people, to think about people is listening to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2209	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2214	I record that no one from the positioning party has been able to defend the complaint that the merger of Troms and Finnmark was an illegal decision, even after we've been here for hours. It's fascinating. The only legal arrangement that has been made in this matter has shown that it was an illegal decision. The government has not done it by itself, and they have continued to do nothing about the merger. They have not done their job. And Stortinget hasn't done his job because they haven't listened to the rule, as they should have done. So it's illegal. Then we're left with an illegal decision, and then I'm going to say that all the resistance to an illegal decision is legal. I also ask the Council of State, which has been unusually silent in this discussion, to notice when she squats on the Finnish mark and their resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2219	We can start with the Constitution. It was quite recently that we were constitutionally founded local self-government in Norway. The left had gone into the breeze for many years to do so. Then we can go to the law of division, which says that both the department and the magnificence can take the initiative. So there's no violation of any law that anyone but the state is taking the initiative. Finnmark has also spoken on the way. They have pointed to another option, yes, but they even evaluated two of the three options identified. So we're discussing here really the legality of disagreement. If we go this even further, we can say that it is illegal that it is the Storting that has adopted the budgets of the counties and municipalities. But it is not illegal – it is the Stortinget who is responsible here. That's why we're called Stortinget. We're going to adopt the big appropriations to control local government. If we go to the Inland and to the representative Emilie Enger Mehl, I have to ask what mandate the Central Party has had over the years when they have been in majority with both the Workers' Party and SV in Hedmark and Oppland and established the Trade School Inland, Theater Inland, Innovation Norway The Inland and Regional Research Fund Inland. Have they asked the inhabitants about it? Now we've sorted all of this in the interior, except for the political body. When it comes to it, no, we politicians should not be involved! It's a bit of a strange attitude to democracy when one imposes such a division on another, but does not organize itself within the same geographical area. There will again be a debate on symbolism, not on realities, when a tying to that kind of argument. These are legitimate decisions all the way, and the initiatives and investigations to have legal, democratic processes have been taken. There is a right to disagree about the result and what a chooser chooses, but not to participate from here is not to be legislated in a type of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2228	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2234	Finally, there are no investigations on the table that refute the clear, legal claims that come from Professor Eivind Smith. Professor Eivind Smith is one of the leading legal experts in Norway on constitutional issues. He has been used for a number of years by a very different party on Stortinget, who advises on constitutional proposals. He is clear that the decision that has been taken is not in line with the provisions and laws that exist. That the Council of State disagrees with it and has a different opinion, that the majority has a different opinion, I have registered, but one has not put on the table legal argument, a legal assessment that says otherwise. In conclusion, I would like to ask Akershu’s representatives to think carefully about what is the reason why we, with 600,000 inhabitants, cannot still control ourselves. I hope and ask fervently that you think about it one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2241	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2246	The impression is created that we believe this is illegal because the Stortinget has taken a coercive decision. No, we don't think it's illegal. We believe that all the coercive decisions are unwise, but we believe that Finnmark is illegal, because Finnmark is in a very special situation. It was said that Finnmark had been treated the same as everyone else. They're definitely not. They were not part of the Committee's position, they were not part of the Committee's proceedings. In the vote, the majority, i.e. the government parties and the Christian People's Party, say: ‘These members believe that the rules of the law on division have been followed and that the merger decision is thus in line with the law on division.’ That's exactly what we're arguing about, that's what the lawyers dispute, the right of initiative. I think Eivind Smith said it this way at the hearing: The Storting has authority to change the laws, but they have no authority to flaunt in dealing with the laws they themselves have passed. As administrative authorities, they must deal with their own laws. That's what's at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2260	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2265	The Greatness must relate to its own laws, and the Greatness as the foremost representatives of democracy should be able to understand that it is wise to listen to the will of the people. The representative, Kjeseth, performs to say that the merger of the Inland is in practice a voluntary merger – when the county council was opposed and the people opposed. Had the Hedmark bench here on Stortinget been asked, we would have been against – here are seven representatives, five are against and two are in favour, and two are representatives from government parties – so it is quite clear that it is an unwise decision. So now you're in favour of something that makes the Kongswinger region actually border on More and Romsdal and Skåk in practice. It is completely meaningless, and I wish that the government and the Right, the Left, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party could have listened to people, respected the will of the people and stopped the forced mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2272	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2277	One can discuss whether it is right to make arrangements without asking people, or whether the Stortinget has taken a legal decision on a breakdown within a geographical framework that is considered reasonable. The left is involved in doing this because we want to decentralize power and authority in Norway, and because today's states cannot capture the decentralization we need. That decision must be taken somewhere. That was not the case either when we established today’s counties in 1974. It was not even those who decided what the breakdown should be like. When one in practice takes all these decisions in the state – the centre party has been in power for all these years and takes these decisions in the course of the process of cooperating to establish the Inland Institutes – I do not see what is really the challenge in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2282	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2287	We are about to round up a very important debate for the people and for our country. Interestingly, a representative of a government party here today finally undermines the whole argument for the mergers – the coercive mergers – that today’s counties cannot have new tasks transferred. But there are then a number of today's counties that are not going to be merged, and so still have to have the same organization, and they also have the opportunity for all the world to get new tasks. They are not given any signals that they will not be able to transfer the tasks contained in the task message. If it's a premise that you have to merge to get new tasks, it should be in that task message. It is also frustrating that we cannot talk about cooperation without having to be within the same administrative boundary. There is no doubt that there is cooperation across states, across municipalities and across countries, although they are not within the same limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2294	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2299	There's one party that's glowed for this, and it's left. I guess that's the only party that actually wanted it. But that they had a mandate to implement it, it is not possible to say. The left was very clear on this in both Hedmark and Uppland before the election. When we saw the election result, Left received 2,659 votes in Hedmark and 2,776 votes in Uppland – hardly any. Ketil Kjenseth is on one of the weakest mandates in the whole of Stortinget – he and André N. Skjelstad, the two who have been two of the strongest champions for this. The centre party got 25,000 votes in Hedmark, in Uppland we got 22,000 votes plus a little more. So the Left does not have a mandate, but somehow has managed to force the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party to do so and got a poor solution for the country, a centralizing solution. This discussion is not going to go over. Because when it is so bad and so little thought, of course the debate will live on. It's not just up to us, for many people out there are going to hold the debate in full fire even in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2305	Questions have been raised about the legal basis. To that I would say that drawing up a big discussion on legal issues in this room becomes a little strange, in the sense that it is to think that the state of Norway represented at Stortinget is being sued is going to be a bit strange. I think we can see that even though Eivind Smith – as has been referred to here on several occasions – has made an assessment of this, it has been thoroughly refuted by the department's lawyers, and there has not been much discussion. The reason for this, of course, is that it's a dead end – it doesn't lead anywhere. This regional breakdown of Norway is a political issue for decision in this Chamber and has been decided several times before. We have now been sitting for several hours and listening, and I cannot believe that it has been brought to the square for a single new moment – at least I have not been able to take note of what it should be. Of course, I respect the fact that there is the possibility of rematching, of course, I respect the opposition's need to promote its policy, and I do not criticize it. But I think we can see that in this case we have had constantly new rounds, and it has contributed to at least one thing, and that is throwing at the stake of the resistance that is in Finnmark. It has also led to a great deal of return to the drive for the new Troms and Finnmark, and it is returning to the population in Troms and Finnmark. There is a great job to be done, as other county municipalities are doing well and have come a long way. It's important now, and I hope that after this round we're there that we can just look forward, and that we can start working in Troms and Finnmark, too, so that we can get good solutions for the population and for the employees of this system. I took note of the introduction by the representative Sivertsen at the very beginning today, where he had just made the point that you should look forward. That's what I think was a good point, and I hope that's what's going on right now. For one thing is driving a political signal; another is finding appropriate future solutions for the population concerned. That's what listening to the people is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2314	At the end of a long debate where the arguments are well known from before, and the positions are also well known from before, I shall bear in mind that the representative Thommess stressed the need to look forward. But I need to take a little look back just because I was the case rapporteur both for the representative proposal that came from the left in the first round, and also negotiated what led to our halving the number of county municipalities. It is possible that I now start a whole new debate, but now the speaking time has run out for most people, so I can only admit and say that I think the Week should be bigger – just to be honest. But it didn't. We negotiated on the basis that the Christian People's Party, Left, Right and Advance Party agreed that we should halve the number of county councils, and the division that was on the table is the one we have agreed on. It's given this hall authority to do it because we have something larger than us, and it's a selection. It is people in a democratic election who choose their representatives and who get the majority that results. What does not disappear, however, is my county. The county existed long before the county came into place, and that is the number of county municipalities we are halving today – not my county. Eastfold was Eastfold before the 1970s when the county municipalities came. At the time, the rapporteurs met in the county – in all the counties – to find solutions that were larger than a single municipality itself could handle. They received broadcasts from the government – which met and had one voice, whether small or large – and were given a majority to build hospitals. What we're doing now is halving places that today have a county municipality with political and administrative structure, but the identity of the county, which is constituted as a large-scale constituency, will still be there. And the identity -- do you think it won't be just like for merged municipalities? The identity gets bigger, it gets more alive, and it gets even more up to date. Some people don't like the results, but they just want to keep the centralization they're talking about. What is now possible is that tasks can be transferred from the state to the halved number of new county municipalities to a much greater extent than that of the previous regional reform, from the red-green ones, which ended up sending out farms to the county municipalities some worn-out roads – which was then given the task of renovating out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2325	The representative of Geir Adelsten Iversen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2330	I'm not going to spend that much time now, but this with democracy is important, and laws and rules are important. When the Finnmarks say that you have not received the chance that the others have, they believe so, and when Finnmark now says that you are considering an action against the state, it is serious. That's serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2335	As the rapporteur on the matter, I am not short of speaking time either, and I can reassure the representative of Mr Schou. I took the floor for two reasons. One was Thommessen's posts here at the end, where he talked about the importance of legal discussions in this situation and in this room, and that it's a dead end. It is tempting then to recall that this is actually the country's legislative assembly, and that legal discussions are not new either. That's exactly where we're shaping the policy, and I'm using it to say that the law is really just the formalization of the policy. But I agree with Mr Thommess that the decision that was not taken today, which was taken a year and a half ago, is primarily a political decision. It is a political decision that a majority in the United Kingdom chooses to force, despite many objections, popular opposition, questions about its legal correctness, and that it is difficult to justify it properly enough. But it is a political decision that is the responsibility of which you are, of course, fully entitled to take. The point of lifting the law of division and the rules of procedure there, as Professor Smith has done, is to say something about the legitimacy of the Stortinget, how we deal with the rules that are. So now you've been in the situation that questions are asked about whether the law has been followed or whether it isn't. That is why it is divided, but it does not reinforce the legitimacy and the conclusion of the actual decision. Yes, I have been concerned that we must also look forward, because I believe the county councils play an important role in this country. I want them to continue to do that, and I am glad that we are going to debate how they will play an even more important role. There is little time for new county municipalities to assume responsibility. At the outset, I said today that they are going to deliver statutory rights to the citizens, and not least a election is to be held – the foundation. There are many people who are busy, and there is a lot of work to be done, but I am sure that the county politicians around will take that responsibility and ensure that the citizens are given their fundamental right to hold elections. I'm also going to look a little bit backwards, because in my post earlier today, I said that I've met people who have been concerned about what happened in the 1960s, that is, just over 50 years ago, because they felt it was a pretty strong attack. Then I would like to remind you that the reason why the Storting has such a principle of volunteering is linked to the contractions that occurred in Eastfold – even by coercion – that were in memory of people. This decision, which was made a year and a half ago, is not just going to be remembered for 50 years, I think it will be remembered for centuries to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2350	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2355	It was the representative of Schou who confirmed that the most important thing was to halve the number of counties – not what content and what function these counties should have. It was okay to put it in place. So the representative said something else interesting, which I hope can be confirmed. She said – if I understood her correctly – that the superpowers will be the same as before, they will pass. Eastfold will exist as its own constituencies. It contrasts with the debates I hear going on in the election law committee, which she clearly knows the outcome of. There it is that madness begins to take even greater form, because there you have to divide the fold into two fold-down circuits – is one of the suggestions – not three or one, no, you want two. It would have been nice if the representative could confirm that I understood her correctly. This is a reform without head and tail – adopted by the government parties together with the Christian People's Party. I record that the Council of State does not comment on this, but that is the way the country is currently governed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2364	The debate is perhaps approaching a tail. The next and last recorded speeches are Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2371	I really believe that the representative Lauvås knows the answer to the question himself – if he now listens and does not talk in the back of the round. The starting point is that the Constitution has defined what the choice circuits of a magnificence choice should be. I think the representative of Lauvås is well acquainted with that. This requires that a proposal be made, and so far I have not registered that there is a majority for a constitutional change – and in that case it must be dealt with in two aggregates, i.e. two elected magnifications. There should be an answer to that question. And the other thing that thrives, and you want to give the impression, is that this is also a change in the convolution circuits. This is part of the lively debate, but it is not a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2394	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2403	I think I can guarantee that this matter goes a little faster than the previous one. I would very much like to start by thanking the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation. Digitalisation and new technologies give us unparalleled opportunities. Digitalisation is primarily a tool to create a simpler everyday life for most people and to simplify processes in the public sector. In the years to come, there will be many new jobs created through digitization and automation, and we will meet challenges we have today, in a completely different way, that we cannot imagine today. If we can't get involved in the digitisation and development of new technologies, Norwegian business will also lose in international competition. Although digitalisation gives us enormous opportunities, it also poses some challenges, and there is no doubt that our privacy will also be put under pressure when we face the digital future. It shows us the annual report from the Data Protection Authority and the Privacy Officer in a good way. Good privacy is a fundamental human right that is the right to our private life, and good privacy is necessary to preserve our free and liberal state of law. The annual communication from the Data Protection Supervisor and the Subject of Data Protection shows that, during the reporting year, substantial resources have been used to provide guidance to people and businesses on how to understand the new Data Protection Act. Data protection has been significantly increased and has had a very high level of outreach activity, both in Norway and internationally. This can be seen, among other things: that there is a very large increase in the number of requests to the Data Protection Authority. As the Communication also shows, the Data Protection Authority has worked in particular with embedded privacy and technology, health and well-being, artificial intelligence, robots and privacy in the time of the algorithm. We also notice that the Committee has emphasised that it is good that the Data Protection Authority has followed up what we noted during the last year's treatment, namely that it is important to raise awareness of Norwegian municipalities when it comes to data protection work. We also look forward to the continued work of the Data Protection Authority in the coming year. In the right, there is a positive consequence of the Data Protection Regulation that there will be an increased activity in the field of privacy. It shows that people are becoming more aware of the challenges of technological development. We rely on people and businesses to know and apply the law to the best of people. It also contributes to the protection of privacy and, in the years to come, the Right will also ensure that people's fundamental rights to good privacy are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2418	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur both for a good job and for a good post to which I can subscribe. I only have three comments that I want to put the search light on today. One is the consideration that the public today has much more information about the individual. It also applies to commercial establishments. They are collected through register data, through an increased number of sensors and new technologies. We live in a time when the Internet of Things is on the move, and we also see an increasing use of artificial intelligence, great data and automatic algorithms. The total amount of information on individuals is a new type of threat to privacy, and it is not least the possibility to link it together to reveal a very powerful tool for those who want to follow closely with individuals. The second thing I need to stress is a change that has happened in recent decades, and perhaps especially in the last decade, and that is that when we discuss privacy, it is no longer primarily a concern for the public, state and government knowledge of the individual and the management of it, but it is increasingly the commercial ones. Today, five of the world’s largest companies are computer companies — and not computer companies — in the sense that they produce computers and other things, but they are the ones that control information about individuals. It is outside the public and is seen as outside direct control from public-sector governance. This concentration of knowledge, capital and brain power is absolutely essential that we have regulation of, that they are transparent and can be controlled. It brings me to a final score. I agree with the importance of the GDPR, which has been introduced, and with the piece of work that the EU has done there. In an increasingly globalised world, and which in particular in the information industry does not know any borders or other borders, we depend on international cooperation and large enough international actors who contribute to limiting the use and correcting the misuse of privacy and establishing regulations and rules that allow us to protect the individual's right to privacy in every way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2429	Data protection is an important body at a time when data protection is still being challenged. In its annual report, the Data Protection Authority has strongly warned against implementing the proposal for digital border defence as presented by a selection in autumn 2016. All cable communications entering and leaving Norway are proposed to be registered in different registers. In the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, the proposal would conflict with both the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution. There were some people in the previous debate who thought that we should not discuss laws and regulations in this room, but I believe that when the Data Protection Agency among others. refer to the so-called Tele2 judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is of the utmost relevance to discuss laws and regulations. It was concluded in that judgment that data storage laws in Sweden and the United Kingdom were not in line with the right to privacy. The judgment says that it is not in line with human rights to store data without an assessment of the need, as well as whether it is appropriate to store it. The Data Protection Authority believes that this judgment will have to have consequences for the design of the digital border defence here to land. It did not, and earlier in the autumn, the Minister of Defence sent a new law on the intelligence service’s activities at the hearing. I think we'll get it later in this room. The Government proposes that the E service be able to store traffic data for up to 18 months before it is deleted. Search and procurement shall take place only after secret legal authorisation. The government's assumption is that the EU Data Protection Regulation will be fully implemented by means of a new personal data law. In the Ministry of Justice's consultation proposal, it was time that Norwegian special legislation had to give up if it was contrary to the regulation. We recognize that from other debates, at the latest here today. The centre party is critical of such an approach to the development of Norwegian data protection legislation. We would like to transfer legislation adopted by others when it is consistent with our own understanding of how to strengthen privacy, but we believe that there must be a national assessment of the need for action on the basis of which our personal data law is adopted. It is a step in the right direction that the government has abandoned the idea of appointing a special court in the hearing on the new law on intelligence activities and instead given responsibility to Oslo District Court. This is partly in line with some of the warnings provided by the Data Protection Authority. The use of social media by children and young people and the commercialisation of personal data are among the areas mentioned in the annual report this year. Increased use of social media with the sharing of images and information may weaken the privacy of children – and also of the rest of the population. I am therefore pleased that the Data Protection Agency, together with the Education Directorate and the Centres for ICT in education, has worked on a guidance material for good privacy in the training sector in the past, and I want to take this opportunity to advertise some of that material. I hope that the Data Protection Authority will continue with the important work they are doing, and that we can look forward to good judgements and debates on the issues that privacy will require in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2446	Now the case rapporteur and co-representatives have described both the current situation and the future in such a way that I believe that we must all realise that in the future both the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority need to be strengthened. It is quite new challenges we face, and privacy is for SV – and I hope for most parties – a fundamental rule of law, which must be defended. We have seen this difficult in cases in the past, related to the Data Storage Directive. Then I think we have to remind each other that privacy is about having a free private room. That's what this is about. We don't have data protection rules to protect ourselves from crime, but our privacy is challenged by crime because authorities want to use, among other things. data storage to combat crime. It's legitimate to discuss it, but it's important that we don't put privacy aside. That is why I am very pleased that we have such maritime data surveillance that the Chief Data Protection Officer can go out and say, when the Minister of Defence makes proposals for digital border defence that violates fundamental principles, that the Minister of Defence does not understand privacy. You might think about it, but I have a sense of security that we have a computer monitor that dares to say things like that publicly. It's incredibly important that we have it, and then we'll have to discuss what this is all about. That means that if you break people's privacy because you want to watch people to fight crime, you've made some mistakes in the first place. We discussed that very much when we had the Data Storage Directive up. It also ends up like in a lot of other cases, that the smart people get around it, the little ones get caught, and the privacy suffers. I am very pleased with these two institutions we have, and I want to strengthen them – among other things. what was mentioned earlier here about the digital media use of children, and that they have an incredibly important job in view of it. Finally, yesterday the matter of the serious data breach that has occurred in Health South-East was closed. It shows how vulnerable we are in our digital world. It is a pity it has not been clarified, but it also says that we need to further strengthen the management of the ICT sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2457	We live in a rapidly evolving society and are increasingly dependent on information. Personal data is constantly being used for new purposes. This development challenges potential privacy. The Annual Communication to the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Review clearly shows this. The Jeleia platform assumes that privacy is fundamental, that everyone has the right to privacy, and that the State has a responsibility to ensure the protection of personal integrity. The government therefore imposes strict requirements on the safe storage and processing of personal data by both private and public actors. The EU Data Protection Regulation entered into force in the EU Member States on 25 May and in Norway on 20 July. It ensures the protection of personal data, equal rules and the free movement of personal data across the EU and the EEA. Privacy is strengthened, business has one common European regulatory framework. Children and young people have the same privacy and privacy as adults. The data protection rules contain specific provisions for the protection of children. Children may be particularly vulnerable to the use of services on networks. They often do not have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the consequences of giving up personal data. The Data Protection Act therefore states that children under 13 years of age should not be able to consent solely to the processing of personal data when using online services. It is very good that special attention is given to the privacy of children and young people. The tasks and amount of work of the Data Protection Supervisor have increased significantly with new data protection legislation, first through the preparations from 2016 to 2018, then new tasks after the entry into force of the Regulation in July 2018. This Regulation imposes increased guidance and information tasks on the Data Protection Authority in addition to new administrative tasks. In order to ensure that the activities are well equipped to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the legislation, the government has given priority to significantly increasing the appropriations over the last few years. For 2019, the government has proposed an increase of 2 million. kr, in addition to the continuation of the 11 mill reinforcement. kr from 2018. In this way, we enable the Data Protection Agency to carry out important tasks nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2468	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2480	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2489	During the debate Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the practice of the law relating to the principle of individual citizenship and, where appropriate, to propose amendments to prevent any possibility of its being practised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2633	The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2645	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Workers' Party and the Centre will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2659	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2668	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:238 S [[2017-2018]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The President assumes that the Left supports the proposal. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2700	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Norunn Tveiden Benestad on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party the proposals No 4–6, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 7, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2740	Alternatively, between the IV and the proposal No. 4–6, from Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the abolition of the merger of Telemark and Vestfold counties.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the abolition of the coercion of Uppland and Hedmark counties.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the abolition of the merger of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane counties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2767	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government not to split Akershus into two and form two counties on each side of the Oslofjord, and to propose this if Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud support it.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2784	Alternatively, between the I-IIIs of the vote and the proposals No. 1-3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Document 8:3 S [[2018–2019]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Document 8:4 S [[2018–2019]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Document 8:25 S [[2018–2019]] The President assumes that the Left supports the proposals. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2815	I have voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2820	There may be several people who have voted incorrectly, so we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-06.ana.ud418e2857	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
