ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e109	The representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos, who has been licensed, has taken the seat again. The following shall now be called up by the alternates: For East-Agder counties: Arne Thomassen For the state of Hedmark: Johan Aas For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande Two permit applications are filed: by the Central Party Group on sick leave of the representative Kjersti Toppe from 4 June onwards and until further notice from the Left-wing Group on the Permit of Representative Abid Q. Raja from 5 June to 7 June to take part in the OSCE terrorist prevention team event in Sarajevo On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: Applications will be processed immediately and accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz For Hordaland County: Hans Inge Myrvold
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e170	His Inge Myrvold is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e183	The President proposes that a seat president be elected for the Stortinges meeting today – and sees it as agreed. The President is making suggestions on Kari Kjenaas Kjos. Other suggestions are not preceded, and Kari Kjønaas Kjos is elected as the seat president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform us that the Storting meeting today continues beyond noon. 16 until the map for today is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e205	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e214	This aggregate proposal addresses rules for the coordination of public service pensions with retirement pensions from social security according to the new rules on benefits and the rules on how to adjust pensions to their life expectancy in these cases. The proposal proposes the necessary adaptation of the old-age pension from public occupational pension schemes to a new old-age pension from social security. It is also part of the follow-up to the Agreement between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, LO, UNIO, YS, the Academics, KS and Specter of Occupational Pensions for Public Sector Employees. The Committee itself did not choose to hold a hearing in the case, but has reviewed the feedback from the hearing bodies which responded when the Ministry sent the proposal to the hearing in 2017. Some of the questions were also answered and clarified in the letters of the Council of State to the Workers' Party's fraction in the Committee. When the government comes back to the Stortinget with a bill on a new pension scheme, it will involve changes to the proposal for coordination rules for public service pensions and a new age pension from the social security system, as this proposition also applies. The Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left agree that it is natural to have a more comprehensive presentation and review of future life adjustments and coordination for public sector occupational pension pensions. We therefore support the proposal that this should be done in the context of the presentation of necessary legislative changes resulting from the agreement on a new public service pension for public sector employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e227	The case has been put to the attention of the rapporteur – new coordination rules for persons with a gross occupational pension and, at the same time, the creation of new rules in the social security system. What is not as good is the urgency that has shaped the committee's consideration of such a complicated matter. The Committee has not had a hearing on the matter. We have therefore been directed to use the hearing opinions sent in during the government hearing. It complicates the picture that the government in the proposal we are now considering has made some adjustments, including: in the case of proposals for a new coordination advantage, replacing the three co-ordination benefits under the basic pension benefit, the part-time benefit and the notional benefit, which are applicable to co-ordination with public benefit under old generation rules. The Labour Party has therefore sent questions to the Ministry on the basis of government consultation. However, the time available to the Committee was so short that the deadline for submitting any alternative proposals had expired before the response from the Council of State was available. The time limit for any proposal expired until the date of the appointment of the panel in the Committee's own progress plan. A more appropriate procedure would have been to do this in the right order: consultation in the Committee, time to send questions to the Council of State on the basis of any proposals in a consultation in the Stortinget, time to get a response before the deadline for proposals expires, time to get a reply before group discussions and time to group discussions before the deadline for the proposal had expired. This is primarily about the opposition's working conditions and the possibilities for thorough treatment. I guess the position has had enough time to go into the proposals before the proposition was finished from the government's hand. Of the questions we would like to have had more time to address, a better overview of the distribution effects of the new proposals for coordination. It is clear from the government consultation that part-time employees, people with lower occupational pensions and sociable people are given more coordination than those with a pension base of more than 6 G compared to current rules. We don't think that's really right. Several heavy hearing bodies also consider that, in general, there is too strict coordination. While some relaxations have been made in the coordination of the annual coals between 1954 and 1962 in the proposal submitted to the Stortinget, these are rules which must last for a long time – until the last man or woman born in 1962 or before is gone. The working party has therefore reserved the right to return to the case when a new occupational pension is to be treated in Stortinget. We are pleased that a joint committee chose to support that possibility, so that the proposal originally from the Workers' Party is now part of the Committee's position on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e240	The current legislative proposal includes a number of legislative changes in the old-age pension from public service pension and the coordination of public service pension with the old-age pension from the population pension earned under new rules. The proposals contained in the bill are necessary for government employees born in 1954 or later to receive a pension from 67 years of age. The reason is that there are no rules on how to take into account in the public service pension that annual coal born in 1954 or later earns retirement pension from popular security under new rules. New old-age pension from popular security gives better payoff to be more at work. It is absolutely necessary for us to continue to have good levels of pension once we have introduced a life-time adjustment to ensure a sustainable pension system. The new rules in the social security system highlight how poorly adapted today's public sector schemes are to the objectives of the pension reform. I am therefore very pleased that, in parallel with the work on this proposition, we have reached an agreement with the public sector parties on a new pension scheme for public employees. I notice that the minority in the committee points out that several of the hearing bodies were critical of certain aspects of the proposal that were sent to the hearing. In this connection, I refer you to my letter to the Committee on 23 May, which makes it clear that some of the proposals that were at the hearing have been amended in the proposal that has now been promoted by the Storting. Today’s legislation contains so-called coordination benefits, which means that the sum of the old-age pension from social security and occupational pension is higher than the gross pension from the occupational pension schemes. I stress that there will also be coordination benefits in the new rules. The benefits are getting a little less than for those who have a full old profit model in the population, which in part gives unreasonable and unintentionally high levels of compensation to some groups. The lifestyle adjustment of old and new people's fears is a little different. The proposal in the proposal implies that a public service pension should be adjusted as a new social security when it is coordinated with a new social security system, i.e. by reference to the number of divisions of popular opinion. This ensures, inter alia: the effect of life expectancy adjustment on employees in the public and private sectors. We entered into an agreement with the parties on 3 March 2018. In the light of that agreement, we have made several changes to what was sent out. One is that everyone now secures a pension. The second is that the proposal has been adjusted so that there is a better pay-off to be employed after 67 years, and there is also agreement that we are not implementing the previously agreed escalation of the coordination of occupational retirement provision with the private AFP for the annual coals between 1954 and 1967. In conclusion, I am pleased that the Committee endorses the changes made by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e264	The first coal with a pension after a new census is born in 1954, and the new rules are so complex that pension funds need time from now until they are born in 1954, they turn 67 in 2021 – i.e. two and a half years – to prepare the right payment at the right time. The government has known that these regulatory changes had to come right since it joined in 2013. So why does this matter come only now – almost overtime?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e271	It's absolutely right that the government knows about this. We also sent proposals for amendments to the consultation last September. The reason it took that time was simply because the organisations were concerned that this would be negotiated together. If we had a tighter time frame, it would obviously be an advantage for the Storting, but it would not have been possible, for the organisations, to negotiate the elements of the coordination rules, which were also important in the agreement. We tried to hold on to this for as long as possible by meeting the needs of the organisations to negotiate this together, while at the same time we should also be able to have the proposition adopted in time for the new rules to be put in place. Then we have tried to balance two considerations – the desire of organisations to negotiate it together, but of course also how important it was for the Storting to deal with this in time to make the changes in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e278	It's complicated, as I said in my first question. And we can all really agree that most people have a zero chance of forming a picture of what they get in retirement when they actually go off. We've seen a number of headlines in the media about government employees saying that they're losing the pension to longer work. And it's no wonder they think so, because I've seen examples of the letters sent out from the State pension fund. One example: «The entire retirement pension from 1 September 2018 will amount to DKK 3 900 per month, the entire retirement pension from 1 September 2019 will amount to DKK 2 500 per month.» And then it says in small writing at the bottom: «In addition, the retirement pension comes from the social security system.» My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take the initiative that the Pension Fund also discloses the total pension – because they know that, otherwise they would not be able to calculate what the Pension Fund itself should cover?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e285	This is a complicated piece of legislation – there is no doubt about it. Governments before us have also tried to get this legislation in place without getting it done. It's also hard for the individual to get an overview of what you get in the total pension. But it is, if not otherwise, a good starting point that we are now at least getting a code that explains how this is to be calculated. The reality is that today there is no legislation on how to coordinate pensions. Some people have started to get rid of the AFP already without knowing what they're actually getting in retirement when they're at age 67. What the Storing is doing today is, at least, laying the groundwork for a regulatory approach. What's in the letters from the State pension fund, I don't know the details. Of course, I'm concerned that the individual pensioner gets a good and comprehensive overview of what the total pension is. To the extent that there is a need to clarify the letters from the State pension fund, I get to take a round with it when I get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e292	I thank you for your answer. It's reassuring to hear that the Council of State will go in and look at those letters, because they're really not intelligible, I can guarantee that. I have an example in my directory up there. I would like to return a little bit to what I stressed in my article. The matter was forwarded to the Committee on 10 April 2018. The Council of State has said that it was because the organisations wanted time to negotiate, and I accept that the organisations can have such a starting point. But does the Council of State believe that a half-month treatment period in Stortinget is a proper procedure for such a complex and important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e300	Obviously, there has not been an optimal procedure for Stortinget. However, as it emerges from the suspension, the opposition has also seen the hearing opinions quite carefully and read what the organisations have thought about the draft that was sent out last September. As the opposition has also explained in its comments, there have been quite a number of objections to some of the points in what was sent out at the hearing. This means that it was also important for organisations to have an influence on what would be the outcome, and they wanted to have it very strongly as part of the overall negotiations when negotiating occupational retirement provision. That's what we got, with an emergency alarm. The agreement was signed on 3 March, and the proposition came to Stortinget as soon as it was possible after that. An alternative course would have been that we had made a proposition much earlier, but then the organisations would not have the same influence. It would have been an alternative, but we believe that the very organisations' connection to and upliftment of this was central to the Storting's handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e305	Thanks for the answer. I record that the Council of State agrees with us that the treatment period in Stortinget was not optimal, but that it is, after all, an advantage that the organisations have been given the opportunity to address the matter thoroughly. Now I have read, as the Council of State was also involved, the hearing opinions that were sent to the government hearing, and it is true that the organisations, and not only the pension funds, but also the central statistical agency, for example, had some input. But there are many of the recordings that have not been taken into account, and it has been difficult for the opposition to do things further, given the procedure we had. What I'm asking is: is there nothing about the distribution effects of the new rules that the Council of State also sees as possibly being solved in another way? Many have felt that coordination is too strict. Do the Councils agree with that assessment? It was also explicitly stated in some of the hearing opinions that the hearing bodies did not actually have a basis for making proposals. Is that a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e310	You can't eliminate all the disadvantages and keep all the benefits in a system – that's how it will always be. The fact that the Storting adopted the pension reform in its time and set up clear annual ceilings as to when the different legislation would come into force would mean that the year before or after that year would have different consequences. But in the agreement we have concluded with the organisations, we have also tried to smooth out – if you can say so – some of the consequences of not making the differences so big between the different annual budgets. In the public sector, a pension of 66 pst has been guaranteed in the old system. The cut is 72 pst. – now it is reduced to 71 pst. Someone might think there's a lot, but I think it's a relatively modest tightening when you look at it at the macro level. The old coordination benefits were quite unfortunate – people with the same income but with different employment rates could sometimes get quite a difference in pension rates, and that is also not reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e315	Thanks for the answer. Governments are constantly talking about average coverage levels, but my question was about the distribution effects of the new coordination rules. Several have pointed out that the distribution effects are distorted for the benefit of those with the highest pensions. That being said, it has also been negotiated, as the Council of State was about, for people who are in the transition between new and old systems, but for those who were born in 1953 and earlier, there are no changes. Is the Council of State prepared to see whether, for government employees in those age categories, provisions can also be introduced that make it more profitable to work longer and that it pays as much to work longer in the public sector as in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e320	There is still a great deal of redistribution in the pension system. The co-ordination benefits that have existed before will largely continue, but not to the same extent as in the past. There will still be considerable redistribution in the pension system that is. As I said, you're reducing the average pension from 72 pst. At 71 p.m., and those with low job breaks will still get quite a count in their pensions. I have to remind you that the background to pension reform, among other things. was to stimulate the line of work. Then you can't compensate for all the disadvantages of not working. It has also been decided that the pension reform should have a slightly different impact on the different annual budgets. The purpose of allowing the oldest coals to be in the old system was that at the time – I guess – they wanted to protect the oldest workers from a pension reform, because they were almost retirement. The reform is too complete for those born after 1963, and I have no plans to make any changes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e327	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e346	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e355	This is also an aggregate proposition, which takes account of various changes and updates in the Labour Environment Act, the State Employees Act and the People's Security Act, but I should only touch on two aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e360	The first concerns the age adjustment of unemployed old-age pension proposed by the government of Stoltenberg II, where the old-age pension was initially to be adjusted according to the same rules as the old-age pension of the employed. During the years 1944 to 1951, partial protection was provided for the effects of the adjustment because of uncertainty as to how workers would adapt to the new rules. The size decided in 2011 to assess the continuation of screening in 2018, based on the actual adaptation of the work to the new life expectancy adjustment and the evolution of the number of deaths. It was then widely agreed that an unemployed old-age pension should be proportionate to the average old-age pension paid to the worker. Today, a minority of workers are working after the age of 67, while under-earned earns at the age of 67, and in addition a protective supplement to the old age pension. This is not compatible with the working line and does not appear to be reasonable when the disabled receive a relatively good old-age pension compared to the old-age pension they receive. However, the proposal extends and continues the shielding supplement for two new annual coals, pending a proposal from the Ministry for a future solution for the calculation of the invalid age pension at consultation in autumn 2018. So to the happy news that the government is now cutting through and ensuring that the right of priority for part-time employees is guaranteed: the right of priority for part-time workers was introduced into the Working Environment Act in 2005, on a proposal from the Government of Bondevik II, in order to reduce involuntary part-time work and to strengthen women’s position on the labour market in particular. The right of priority gives a part-time employee the right to expand his or her position rather than the employer’s new employment. This presupposes, of course, that the worker is qualified and that there are no significant disadvantages to the establishment. However, a judgment in the Supreme Court raised doubts about the practice and interpretation of the law by the Dispute Resolution Study, so now it is finally cleared up in the law, and the practice of the Dispute Resolution Study is clarified. It is a unanimous committee that wishes to welcome this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e369	Thanks again to the rapporteur, who has also explained the matter well in this case. This matter is simpler than the previous one, on coordination rules. It is therefore a small paradox that the Committee has had much better time to deal with this matter than the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e374	It is really not that much to add to what the rapporteur said. Of course, the Labour Party supports the government's proposal to legislate that part-time employees may also have the right to take precedence over parts of a newly announced position, in line with the long-term practice of the Dispute Resolution Study. We also support the fact that the decisions of the denominator should have legal force, so that the cases are decided in practice there and not be charged to the judiciary, and so that the authority of the denominator is maintained. We also support the clarifications of the provisions on the loss of the right to practise at the expense of social security, the proposed division of labour between Helfo and the State of employment and welfare, and that the municipalities themselves have to assess whether they will conclude the agreements in such cases. However, the Labour Party will make some comments on this matter, which is the proposal to extend the partial protection of the old age pension for the effect of life expectancy adjustment to include two new annual coals, those born in 1952 and 1953. There are two reasons why the government is promoting this proposal. One, and most obvious, is that the failure actually still has such a shielding. If it had been up to the government parties Right and Advance Party, it had already been removed in 2014 – four years ago – along with the cuts in the children's supplement to the losers. The parties which introduced the screening of the lax, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Left, all – fortunately for the lax – stood firm by the decision on partial protection against age adjustment. The rationale was obvious: Disadvantages do not have the same opportunities to compensate for life expectancy adjustment as people in work. When the majority of the Committee's comments say that the red-green government proposed that an old-age pension should initially be adjusted according to the same rules as for working people, it is wrong. If the age adjustment of the old age pension had been adopted without a protective rule for the disabled, it would have been so by itself. But this was not the case, precisely because the red-green government proposed a partial shielding. The rapporteur disagreed with the fact that a partial shielding of the workers is contrary to the working line. We believe that there is no contradiction between the workline and a shielding of those who cannot work. The second reason why we now have to extend the scheme to two new annual coals is that the government has not been able to deliver a case to Stortinget within the time limit set by Stortinget, i.e. this year. But we therefore support, of course, extending the partial shielding rule to new coals, so that no one falls away until the matter finally comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e383	Just a brief comment: New disability benefit and old-age pension for the disabled were adopted on 12 December 2011, and a partial old-age pension protection supplement was then adopted for the disabled born in 1944–1951, with notice of a new assessment in 2018. The size indicated that a disability pension was initially to be adjusted according to the same rules as the working age pension, but with protection, as the representative Christoffersen said well. The centre party supports the extension of the screening system to two additional years' coal, i.e. 1952- and 1953-year-old, and the centre party will stress that equal living adjustments for the disabled and the workers will turn out unfair – I stress: will turn out unfairly – for workers who do not have the same chance to continue their work. Therefore, when the government returns to the Stortinget with the legislation on age groups born after 1953, this needs to be thoroughly discussed and taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e388	The right of priority over new employment was introduced in 2005 by the Bondevik II Government and is an important tool for the creation of more people in full-time jobs. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee is in favour of strengthening this right, so that it can also include the right to a part of a position. As a result, more people who work unsolicited part-time can fill their jobs. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees on the prerequisites which must underpin the exercise of the right of preference, namely that the rightholder must be qualified and that the exercise of the right of preference must not be a significant disadvantage to the employer. In this way, the needs of businesses are also taken into account. I am also pleased that the Labour and Social Committee supports the legal force of the decisions of the Dispute Resolution Board. It is important both for the authority of the denominator and for the parties to have the necessary predictability of their legal position. Persons with disability benefit have transition to an old age pension at 67 years of age. Today, miscarriage is born in 1944-1951 in addition to the age pension that protects the recipients for about half of the effect of life expectancy adjustment. The Government proposes to extend this scheme to the 1952 and 1953 coals. The proposal is promoted pending the examination of a future solution for the calculation of the old-age pension payable. Here we need some more time to do a thorough job. In cooperation with the Minister of Health and Welfare, the proposal also proposes to amend the rules of the Law on Social Security on the loss of the right to practise on behalf of the social security system. I believe that a decision on the loss of the right to practise for the sake of social security in the most serious cases will have a direct effect on the entire law on social security, that is. across the responsibilities of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare and the Directorate of Health. Furthermore, I suggest that it be opened up to respond with a formal warning of a less serious breach of trust within the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. Overall, the proposals will provide us with a more fine-tuning and sensible response system to prevent social security abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e399	The speakers who are now given the floor also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e404	In the absence of a reply, the speaker shall take advantage of this Chair and his observations. I was a little excited about what the Council of State was going to say about the assessment of partial protection for disability, and what is the reason why the matter is delayed and does not come to Stortingen this year, as provided – whether it is only that the government has sold, or whether it is such that one might feel that the basis for making such an assessment is not yet entirely present. In the context of the 2018 state budget, the government said that life expectancy adjustment at 67 years of age has already had a modest effect, as it concerns only new beneficiaries of the 2011 retirement pension and savings are limited by the partial protection of the impact of life expectancy adjustment. So some professionals are also partially screened for the effect of life expectancy adjustment. At the same time, however, the government says that the growth in the proportion of employees has been particularly high in the age group from 62 to 66 years, and that it is related to the conversion of the AFP into the private sector, combined with flexible retirement from 62 years of age, and that it has significantly strengthened incentives to work beyond 62 years of age. This suggests that there will be a need for partial screening of unemployed old-age pension even in the future. In the context of the State budget, the government also says that the proportion of those aged 67 or over has increased, i.e. the proportion of those in work, and there has been a continuing increase in age groups 67 and 68 from 2016 to 2017. So we're already seeing some effects in terms of people adapting. So my question, which I hope the Council of State can solve, is: is the matter coming later because the Council of State feels that one does not yet have a good enough basis to assess it with partial protection for life expectancy, which is important for disability for many, many years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e417	The reality is that there are now very many processes in the pension area at the same time. We have had heavy processes, including: in the field of public occupational pensions and in the field of coordination legislation, which the Storting has just discussed. There have been large, heavy, extensive processes that have been time consuming in all ways. This has taken some time. At the same time, we have been busy spending enough time on the mess so that we can lay a good foundation for the Storting. It is quite right, as the representative of Christoffersen was in his first post, that the victim does not have the same opportunity to compensate for, among other things. Life expectancy adjustment by the worker. That is the reason for the shielding system. At the same time, it is also important that we make a thorough assessment of how to adapt to the new changes. It's important that we don't make changes that give an estimated effect, that you go into retirement through disability. But the sum total we are concerned with doing a thorough investigation now and come back to Stortinget with one thing, so that Stortinget can then take all these considerations into account in his assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e427	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e443	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e452	The proposal proposes changes to the Working Environment Act – a definition of what permanent employment implies in the Working Environment Act, a new basis for access to temporary employment in manpower enterprises, a change in access to local, time-limited agreement on rentals for construction. It is also proposed to clarify the requirements for information in employment contracts to provide predictability for the performance of work. In addition, there is a notice of work aimed at improving enforcement in this area. The bill is the government's follow-up to proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act, which was sent at a hearing on 29 September 2017 and the follow-up to the request decision No. 547 from 15 March this year. This is a very important, but complicated matter. The Labour Environment Act is the Labour Protection Act, which is essential in order to ensure a well-organised working life. A well-organised working life is the prerequisite for a safe family life, because it regulates an obligation to work and thus a right to income. As of 2015, the Centre has raised a number of representative proposals to ensure a more well-organised working life by clarifying permanent and temporary employment and hiring from recruitment agencies – which is the title of today’s suspension. It has been, and is, a great commitment to the trade movement to clean up the conditions in which crew companies have led us, and lead us, to unsafe conditions in the labour market. The trade union movement has implemented a number of important policy markers in order to provide the basis for the changes in the law of the Grand Duchy today. Parts of the employer’s page, with the National Association of Construction at the head of the NHO, have seen the need to change the framework conditions in their industry in order to ensure access to professionals, where permanent employees are usually crucial for their apprenticeship. The current position of the Labour and Social Committee is far from unanimous. However, there are two important issues that bring together the Committee: First, a new definition of fixed-term employment in the law: fixed-term employment means that employment is continuous and unlimited, that the rules of the law on termination of employment apply, and that workers are guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a genuine job protection. This is new and also applies to temporary agencies. All executive and staff must take this into account and be able to do so in practice when concluding agreements. Furthermore, as evidenced by the legislative changes in the proposition and the observations made in this clause, the use of NHO Trade and Services employment contracts for fixed-term employment without pay between tasks or duties is prohibited. forwards. Here, the manning industry has a great deal of work to do to change its employment contracts – contracts that also the government in the proposition goes a long way in claiming are illegal even under the applicable law. These are important improvements in the Working Environment Act, which I, as rapporteur of the case, am proud and happy that we have achieved. Manning companies can only legally operate by virtue of the Working Environment Act §§ 14-12, first paragraph, and the second paragraph 14-12. According to the second paragraph of § 14-12, temporary lease-in may be concluded. Even today, collective agreements are required in enterprises that hire people from recruitment agencies in these cases. Trustees shall represent a majority of the category of employees to which the lessee relates. However, this paragraph has been abused by the establishment of so-called house agreements such as collective agreements — house agreements that do not function according to the purpose of the law. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, with the support of the Christian People's Party, have proposed § 14-12 second paragraph, which states that collective agreements must be concluded «with the union with the right of suspension under the Labour Dispute Act». This shall give orderly and serious tariff agreements. Furthermore, it is written in the law that, at the request of the Labour Inspectorate, both businesses and temporary workers are required to provide evidence that the lease-in activity is bound by such a collective agreement. When the agency also receives such a requirement, it will be easier for the Labour Inspectorate to ensure that the law is complied with. There are a number of minority proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in the setting, which have been thoroughly explained in the notes. Unfortunately, in this brief dossier I do not have time to explain in a way that informs people. I would therefore like to comment briefly on the proposals in the new legislative text: The second paragraph of Section 14-9 applies when a temporary employment contract can be concluded. So there's the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, and the SV to go to the new letter g and take out the existing letter f. Furthermore, we go in to limit the use of the first paragraph of Section 14-12 only to vicariates, which was originally the whole purpose of the manning industry. There are also a number of other measures that we are in favour of, which I do not have time to explain. Finally, I would just like to say: The works are proposed by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV until 1 January 2019, where rents under the second paragraph of Section 14-12 are granted a transitional arrangement until 1 July 2019 for contracts concluded before the final legal decision of the Storting. I will take up the suggestions on which the Central Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e488	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e493	Today, the Stortinget writes a history of employment policy. We are now starting a clean-up action in the world of work. We want a working life marked by security, justice and predictability, we want a working life with all the permanent jobs, and today the Stortinget takes action that will contribute to that very thing. This is perhaps the most important issue in working life policy for very many years and the biggest step taken to clean up many very problematic issues in Norwegian workplaces. I am pleased that the bulk of the population have gathered to grips, where the government sits completely silent and sees that the problems develop for Norwegian workers. The tool we use to create the working life we want is the work environment law, perhaps the most beautiful construction that is man-made. However, the Working Environment Act has been progressively weakened, mainly as a result of attacks by today's government, which have introduced provisions that undermine the protection to be represented by the Labour Environment Act for Norwegian workers, but also by the existence of a number of actors who have used their imagination to exploit the loopholes contained in a law that may not have been sufficiently up-to-date. The starting point for this case has been, in particular, the challenges we have experienced in the construction sector, most concretely expressed by the problems that have occurred in the construction sector in Oslofjord, where, in front of the Storting, we had two major demonstrations – of workers who want politicians to listen and who want politicians to take action, because they see renting out fixed jobs, because they see that the widespread use of temporary employment weakens productivity, and because they see that foreign workers are in danger of being severely exploited in Norwegian jobs. We have listened, and therefore we also promoted – the Workers' Party, Red, SV and the Centre Party – various proposals to try to contribute to a cleaner and more secure working life. In the previous round we had on this matter, the bulk of the population was able to collect. For even then, the government was not interested in being involved and contributing to proposals, which were a marshaller to the government to deliver the proposition we currently have for treatment to the Stortinget, which could clean up access to rentals, which could tighten up the definition of fixed-term employment, and which could give the Labour Inspectorate stronger instruments. What we have achieved in the majority of cases, and which will be adopted later today, is essentially – as the rapporteur explained in a thorough and good manner – that we are now getting an increase in the level of agreements for the use of hired labour. It will mean a large-scale clean-up within the lease-in challenges. There will also be strong incentives for higher levels of organisation of work, as employers are now also involved in solving production stops, etc. with rentals, occupied by the organisation of the workstock. So it's a win-win situation that we get to this today. The second is that we stop the government's release from the manning industry, because in the desire to erode this provision, the government has suggested that the maning industry be allowed to hire people temporarily, an exclusive right for the maning industry, which no one else should have. We stop that, and we also ensure that an order is given that the Labour Inspectorate should be able to monitor both rental and rental and have penalties. In one of the most important issues of employment policy, the government is parked on the sidelines, and the majority take responsibility for Norwegian working life. I thank the trade movement, with the Joint Union at its head, which has contributed well in that process and made sure that we are there today, the other red-green parties to contribute to good solutions, and not least the Christian People's Party, which provides a majority. I'm addressing the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e512	The representative of Arild Grande has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e517	Today, we hear two stories about Norway and Norwegian working life – one story about a brutal working life with cynical actors who replace Norwegian labour force and serious businesses with underpaid workers on slave contracts, and another story about a well-regulated working life, where business provides value creation with such decent pay and working conditions that many no longer see the need to organise themselves. They're the marriage child of tripartite cooperation. We've got the safe working life we wanted, where they all, most of them are well cared for. Both of these stories are true. The main picture is a well-regulated, safe and decent working life, but there are, of course, totally unacceptable conditions that need to be cleaned up. Since 2013, the government of Solberg has been continuously working to address labour-life crime and unprofessional actors. The government’s strategy for action against crime at work has been followed up and filled with content with the social partners. The powers of the Labour Inspectorate have increased and stricter penalties and higher fines have been imposed. We have gone from zero work-life centers when the government of Solberg joined, to seven centers of less than four years. And it's called the Workers' Party sitting still. Following warnings about unacceptable conditions in construction in the Oslo area, last summer the Minister of Labour sent out proposals to limit the use of rentals and secure workers foreseeable pay and working conditions. The main rule of Norwegian working life is and shall be permanent employment which provides predictability of work and income. In order to combat unacceptable contracts, the government is currently proposing a better definition of permanent employment – which ensures better predictability of work and wages. The wholeness of both today’s proposals and previous actions balances the need to combat unprofessional conditions on the one hand, but not stifle Norwegian value creation and Norwegian jobs on the other. Just because organized criminals exist in the workplace, we can't treat everyone as if they're criminals. Today, we are in danger of correcting both bakers and blacksmiths – when restrictions that were intended to hit an industry are turned even more on and will apply to all businesses throughout the country. This is neither investigated nor evaluated, and I believe it is irresponsible and undermines the Norwegian tripartite cooperation. According to Nav, we lack more than 10,000 people in the health sector, including 6,000 nurses. This can become critical, especially in the districts where there is a lack of professional competence locally. Although small municipalities in Norway are tempted by bonuses in the 100 000 kroner class, they are not allowed to fill the posts. It's not the manning industry that creates these holes. It's the manning industry that closes them down. It has not been given that Swedish and Danish nurses who have a regular job at home but come to Norway to carry out assignments and to fill tours can take firm employment that gives them the job of a staffing agency in Norway. The proposals of the Christian People's Party on two urgent evaluations of the consequences for preparedness and staffing in Health-Norway underline how irresponsible and serious this is. It's a history of working life. However, it is no less serious that Norwegian business can also be suffocated without opportunities for growth. That is why a loose proposal has been put forward on the follow-up to the impact assessment, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. I take up the proposals from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. When Kværner Stord gets a billion-year contract that provides 3,000 annual works by 2020, but ring-fences for 12,000 annual works in a community with only 18,000 inhabitants, the manning industry does not crowd out local labour but supports it. Kværner Stord has tariff agreements that allow rental. Small and medium-sized enterprises in the region will scale up the 12 000 other jobs, which will wear out. Small and medium-sized enterprises constitute the backbone of Norwegian business. Although many are organised, not everyone has a collective agreement — which today can become a prerequisite for hiring labour. In the YS Labour Barometer, a whole of three unorganised companies say that trade unions do not care for their interests. In the same study, 40 psts respond. the trade unions are too closely connected to political parties. This increase will therefore force workers to register in organisations that people themselves believe do not care for their interests. It's actually unheard of. In this room the Norwegian model is quite often spoken out. In tripartite cooperation, employees, employers and authorities sit around the same table and solve major challenges together. Today, this model is being undermined by a new tripartite cooperation. LO, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party press through proposals it has not reached agreement about the table with employers and authorities. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV state that trust is a decisive competitive advantage in the 21st century. I fully agree with that. There is no trust in those who create values and jobs, who are being expelled in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e542	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e547	The debate we have today started initially with a challenge revealed in one industry – I repeat one industry – and too well under 1 pst. of the economically active population who have taken up duties through various employment agencies in the construction sector, especially in the Oslo area. Nevertheless, today we are faced with a majority, consisting of the opposition and the Christian People's Party, which will not only tighten up against this industry in Oslo, but for all sectors. The manpower industry will then have to limit its temporary pool, which will obviously mean that fewer people will be able to gain a foot within the labour market. Companies will be able to experience that the manning industry will not be able to deal with temporary workers on short notice when the pool is reduced. There's no one serving on the situation you're now in the process of creating. The majority won't stop there either. Together with the Christian People's Party, they will now force through the fact that only the large trade unions will be able to say yes or no to rent through the agency. It may seem that the objective of this case has been lost sight of, and today – instead of cleaning up the construction industry in Oslo – has become a struggle to force workers and employers to organise themselves. Working for more people to choose to organize is a perfectly legitimate fight, but not by coercion, and not at the expense of more people getting a foot in the world of work. It's in its place to also emphasize that it's less than 50 pst. of the active population that is organised, and it is an active choice on an individual basis. For the Progress Party, it is essential that everyone should also be able to choose to be unorganised. Norway has a well-functioning and serious working life in general. The relationship between the employer and the employee is mainly good. Nine out of ten employees are doing well. Unfortunately, there are some unprofessional actors, but then they have to be corrected, which the government has also done through its targeted fight against labour-life crime. With regard to the inclusion of the weakest: those who stand far away from work are those who are pushed even further away. The Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties should be well aware of what the crew industry and Nav have been working on in recent years. Cooperation agreements are in place to get those associated with Nav to work — in order to test professional mobility, but also to adapt them to reduced working capacity. When we at the same time know from several studies that the manning industry offers good opportunities for fixed employment after some time, it is therefore regrettable to choose to push those who need these opportunities most, even further into the cold. At the time of the adoption of today’s tightening-up, there is little doubt that the manning industry will not give priority to employing them with reduced working capacity or lack of relevant experience. In other words, the Christian People's Party and the opposition are now taking more steps to force through a higher degree of organization. In itself, mediocrity is not a problem in Norwegian working life. Renting is not a general problem in Norwegian working life. That many choose to organize is not a problem either. Nor is it that many people choose not to organize themselves a problem in themselves. What is actually a problem is that too many people are outside the labour market, and that the gateway to the labour market today is not made high or wide, on the contrary, it is made narrower and lower for the weakest. Tripartite cooperation has often been highlighted as an important success factor in Norwegian working life – the fact that we have responsible employees, responsible employers – and together with the government, good solutions are often found. It means at the same time that you have to listen to all the parties and try to find the good balance point. Unfortunately, today it may seem that some people believe that tripartite cooperation consists of the Workers' Party, LO and the Christian People's Party. It's not lucky for Norwegian working life. What makes me the saddest is that it's those who are the furthest away from work, who now get an even longer way in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e562	I want to start by thanking the Christian People's Party for the fact that, after all, there are several things in the right direction here today. As we know, the problem of the manning industry has been particularly important for construction workers. And as we also know, Jesus would be organized in the Joint League. SV believes in a fair society, a society where it doesn't matter who your parents or grandparents are, a society where one in the community lives their own lives through hard and honest work, a society where everyone has equal opportunities to succeed. Through the trade unions, we have built the welfare state that we find difficult to see leading a Norway without. Through a good public school, everyone is raised to good demands for happiness, and through collective agreements in the workplace and strong job protection is protected against exploitation and unvalued low wages. They say that every generation is on its shoulders before. This is what we call a society and a working life for the many. Unfortunately, over the last few years we have seen a trend towards a colder society, a society for the few, they at the top. The general rule in working life, that everyone should be permanently attached, has been only a myth in some industries. In the construction industry, they went to a political strike to get the agency out of their workplaces. In a very large number of construction sites illegal tenants are used. They don't know when they get a job, and therefore they don't know when they get a salary. How do you plan to start a family when you don't know where or if you have a job in six months? Many of those added to the employment agency work on temporary contracts or as a permanent addition without pay between jobs, which means that at short notice they can have the ground shut down below them. The safe Norwegian working life, the foundation, is now breaking apart. The Ministry itself writes in the proposition: ‘It has developed a practice of increasing the use of forms of contract which do not provide predictability for work and hence employee income. This is particularly the case in the manning industry with ‘fixed-term employment without guarantee’ contracts.’» And on the other hand, ‘In addition, the Ministry has received input from, among others, the Labour Inspectorate, which suggests that the use of contracts with little or no predictability of work and income is also growing in other industries, including in the restaurant industry, in the cleaning industry and in the trade in goods.’ The cracks are now spreading rapidly to more industries. We now see that more and more people have had a more loose relationship with the world of work. It is important that we now clarify what is needed in order to be able to be called fixed by law. Contracts that do not provide a guarantee of employment can no longer be called employment contracts. For this reason, fixed addition must be defined as ‘permanent and unlimited in time, that the rules of the law on termination of employment apply, and that workers are guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment’. At the same time, workers who work periodically must be guaranteed ‘predictability of working time and unemployment’. I hereby report that SV supports the Workers' Party's proposal for the definition of fixed additions. I think the agency should only be used to meet a real temporary needs. In addition, companies must agree with trustees. We understand that the agencies can be important for small businesses that are vulnerable to disease. That's why we're doing this. At the same time, however, it is important that we have a law that ensures that the working conditions are valid for all employees. The suggestions provided by SV in this setting will ensure a good society for many people, not just employers. I notify you that SV will vote for the Workers' Party's proposal, no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e589	Labour-related crime, employers and unscrupulous exploiters for their profits can almost not be given the highest priority. Not only does it affect the employee who is being exploited. It also affects all serious employers and employers. In the bill that we are dealing with today, it is particularly important in parts of the manning industry that are addressed and answered from the government's side. Not least, the abuses in the construction industry in the Oslo area are met by targeted and heavy measures – measures and proposals for tightening up abuses without causing excessive negative consequences for law-abiding activities, and not least so that a serious recruitment agency can still be a necessary supplement and low-threshold provision for people who are struggling to work for different reasons or who are happy to work in a recruitment agency on a rented basis because of the life situation. At the left's discretion, the government has made the difficult balance in its proposal to dampen the throats, while at the same time ensuring the necessary flexibility for business and the role of a staffing agency to include more people in the labour market. Combined with the fact that the Storting is currently taking additional steps to increase supervision and the possibilities of intervention against those who break the law, we are taking a new important step towards reducing the crime of working life. It is, of course, difficult to claim that the proposals for tightening up and changing the laws that the Left is behind today are the ultimate answer to bringing about unculture and labour-life crime. But to go as far as the minority in the Labour Party Committee suggests, without consistency, without hearing, without respect for the same tripartite cooperation as they talk so well about, to happen all over one country without counter-regulations when the problem is essentially confined to one industry, namely construction and installations, and mainly in the Oslo area, unfortunately asks for more emphasis on rail argumentation than to make the necessary legislative changes based on facts and other important considerations. The left is, of course, said that high levels of organisation are important. Strong and responsible professional organisations are central to the successful tripartite cooperation we have in Norway. But how can a claim that changes of promise and restrictions that will affect all industries and businesses, which close doors, raise thresholds, which can open up fewer jobs and reduce the number of people entering the labour market, as a result, be good for the level of organisation? The aim of the left and the government is to get more people into the world of work – to give more people a chance. For the Left, inclusion and inclusion skills are only good words for use in party speakers, but words that are mandatory in practical policies. Then the answer is to fight against the crime of working life targeted and systematically without making the doorstep into the working world even higher for those who need it the most, as the Left and the other government parties suggest to resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e605	Since 2000, labour hiring and hiring have become increasingly important in European labour markets, including Norwegian labour markets. Renting may facilitate temporary needs for special expertise and address bottlenecks in production. Activities may facilitate the flexible adaptation of the workforce and avoid becoming competent to the skills that they are not required to use. For workers, temporary employment may in several cases serve as a gateway to working life. In other cases, however, temporary additions may give the employee a weaker incentive to learn and the employer may weaken the incentive to pursue training than by fixed additions. This, together with less experience and continuity, can have a negative impact on productivity. Renting in several industries also poses challenges for the recruitment of skilled professions and increases the criminality of working life. For individuals, there are fewer paid and pension rights and little predictability for the future in order to raise housing loans and start up a family. The Team III Committee points out that if the amount of temporary addition becomes too large, it could weaken the basis for the trust and good cooperation relations that characterise Norwegian working life. Increased provision of work has also made labour structures more complicated. It can affect the formation of wages and working life more generally. The Christian People's Party rejects the wishes of the other opposition for a ban on rental, because it would weaken Norwegian value creation and the flexibility of the companies. At the same time, we have wanted to make some necessary efforts to keep the use of rentals and temporaryities at a sustainable level and to strengthen the level of organisation, so as to avoid negative effects on wages and employment relations. Firstly, the Christian People's Party will strengthen the requirement of organisation on the employer and employee sides in order to be able to enter into a written lease agreement. Undertakings bound by collective bargaining agreements contribute positively to an orderly working life. The trustees, on their side, can receive support and advice from unions with weight and insight. Such demands for employee representation are traditional in the Working Environment Act. We want this to apply in general to the labour market, because we see that the position of workers is challenged not only in the construction industry but also in industries such as the restaurant industry, the cleaning industry and the trade in goods. I would like to stress that establishments which are subject to a country-wide collective bargaining agreement through so-called suspension agreements concluded with a trade union with a right of suspension are also covered by the provision. Secondly, the Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal to clarify the definition of permanent employment, so that the job category «fixed employment without guarantee pay» becomes illegal. This is in line with proposals from the Christian People's Party in 2015. We do not support the government's proposal to grant at the same time special access to temporary employment in the recruitment agencies, because, like an overall employee side, we fear increased temporaryity as a result. However, the Christian People's Party proposes an impact assessment before the law enters into force, in particular with regard to the health sector, in terms of flexibility and access to qualified personnel, whose recruitment agencies as a general rule need to have permanent staff. We also propose that the government investigate an exception to the general rule on permanent employment for recruitment agencies providing services to the health sector. Finally, the Christian People's Party will ask the government to propose a system of supervision of renting and renting, and sanctions for illegal rental and rental. I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting in the matter. I would like to make a brief comment on proposal No. 8, which is a proposal for identical wording with that of the law today. It may seem a little confusing that the introduction to I says ‘makes the following changes’, but we suggest that this paragraph should remain in the law, because, like the Left, Right and Advance Party, we are of the opinion that that paragraph should not be changed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e620	The representative Steinar Reiten has drawn up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e625	Today, the job starts by stopping the crew industry's army in Norwegian working life for real. The first thing Red proposed at Stortinget was to ban manning companies on construction sites in the Oslofjord area. We didn't get the majority on that, but we got the whole red-green side, and it's a lot to enjoy what's going to be adopted here in the Storting tonight. In winter, the trade union movement in the construction industry mobilized two strikers to ban rental on the construction sites around Oslofjorden. The changes in the laws that are being passed on to the majority today show that the trade union movement is winning out when it mobilizes its members and requires political changes. It is gratifying that the Christian People's Party has taken the professional movement's concerns seriously. It ensures a majority that we now take several important steps in the right direction, not least in order to create a more family-friendly working life and to strengthen the possibility of a working life that can offer apprenticeships to young people. It is particularly important for the majority to agree to cancel access to the contract, so that only real trade unions can agree to rent under Section 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act. 2. It will now apply in all branches of industry. That's good. Then there is hope that those industries that have not become as bad as the construction industry will not end up there, without action being put in place to avoid it. Unfortunately, in the case of construction sites, the majority does not go far enough in view of the measures needed. On Friday, I met trustees at one of the construction sites where the state is responsible, the construction site of the new national museum, which is being built for over 5.8 billion. kr. There, the trustees told me that the AF Gruppe, who won the bid, only has four own building workers of the total 429 who work on the construction site. So as well as anyone doing the job in the state's own construction site, they're hired or they're working for sub-contractors. The trustees have recently listed 16 recruitment agencies at the same time inside this construction site, which is a performance project for the State and with one of the largest contractors in the industry as principal. They have found many violations of the rental rules in this construction site. There are both three and four members of companies in the chain, against the rules that there should be two terms. The proportion of apprentices and trade union workers is also not close to what is State Building's own requirements. The trustees of those who work there say that they do not believe in any improvement in the situation until the Labour Inspectorate gets proper sanctions against those who are engaged in illegal hiring. These possibilities do not have the Labour Inspectorate as of today. It's a little strange that parties that are usually so-called law-and-order parties are not to punish those who violate the laws and regulations of the labour force – then it's free to go, greet the Progress Party, Right and Left. The penalty should be that if there is a breach of the lease-in provisions, the lease-in relationship ceases and the enterprise must leave the place and receive fines such as severance. Taking into account the speed limit or sneaking on the tram will have consequences, but breaking the work environment law will hardly have any consequences. We need to change the legal situation, so that even these offenders actually face a punishment that is so severe that they stop relying on crime as a business model in the workplace. What I heard at the construction site of the new National Museum last Friday strengthens my faith that our proposal for a ban on rental in the Oslofjord area is correct and important. We have brought with us the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV to demand such a ban. It points towards what can happen after the next choice. The proposal is falling today, but we are not going to give in to the struggle to get rid of the manpower. It must be stopped before it tears down the Norwegian model in working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e642	Most workers in Norway are employed on a permanent basis, and they thrive at work. That's also how it should be. However, there must be some flexibility in working life, in particular with regard to the ability of enterprises to cover absenteeism and unforeseen stoppages. That is why we also have some access to temporary employment and the hiring of labour. At the same time, we have seen widespread use of employment contracts that do not provide predictability for work in the manning industry, as well as a worrying and increasing use of rentals in construction. We want to clear this up, and that's the background for the government to present this bill that the Storting is currently dealing with. The proposal to clarify the nature of fixed-term employment shall make it clear that fixed-term employment is an unlimited period of employment, that it requires a genuine protection of employment and that employees are guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment. «Final employment without guarantee» contracts, without a guaranteed minimum scope of work, may not be continued without infringing the proposal. We also propose that the employer provide predictability when the work is to be carried out, even in cases where work is to be carried out periodically or on scattered days. The purpose is to clarify when the obligation of employment occurs so that workers are not to be available at all times. This is particularly important in part-time cases. I am pleased that the majority will support these legislative changes by the government. The economic outlook in Norway is good. Unemployment is on its way down, growth is on its way up, and more people are now coming to work. Then it is important that we make sure that companies have access to skilled labour. I meet small, medium-sized and large companies around the country who are struggling to find skilled labour. This is precisely where the recruitment agencies play an important role, because they can provide temporary workers with the right skills at short notice. The consultation in 2017 showed that many believe that measures are needed to limit rentals. However, there have been differing views about what should be done and how. The government's proposal for tightening up is for construction, because this is where the level of rental has been problematic. I note that the majority goes in to tighten access to hiring labour in all branches of industry. It is a narrowing that will also affect sectors where renting is not a challenge – a proposal that has not been investigated, has not been consulted and has not been discussed with the parties. The consultation has highlighted the presence of some illegal rentals and the need for measures to provide for supervision, control and more stringent penalties. We are in the process of investigating and reviewing existing enforcement mechanisms, with a view to measures to prevent illegal rental. The theme raises questions that require further investigation, including: issues of principle relating to the demarcation between private and public law enforcement. I am pleased that the majority also sees the need for this to be properly investigated before any proposal is made. As you know, these issues were also raised in the Storting earlier this year. The proposition also follows up the March decision, as we believe it is right and proper. I believe that the proposal that has been put forward provides a good balance between tightening up and the necessary flexibility. Finally, in the spirit of tripartite cooperation, we have tried to balance the various considerations and interests of the case, i.e. care for the interests and needs of both employees and employers. I notice here that the opposition, the Christian People's Party included, has chosen to disregard the interests and needs of one side. I take this into account, but I would like it to be possible to choose here, too, to see the overall balance that we have tried to achieve with the proposal that is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e668	What the Council of State makes as a balance sheet is in reality a form of double communication. In spite of the fact that the government itself, the Council of State itself, uses terms such as'slave-like relationships' on one side and also expresses strong concerns as to how increased rents can affect Norwegian working lives, we find that proposals are being prepared and put forward which provide additional room for action on the manning industry through an exclusive right to temporary additions. The representative, Nordby Lunde, expressed her concern for district hospitals and the crew there. However, it is not correct that concerns from, for example: The Northern Hospital, which appears in a letter to Health Nord, is actually a follow-up to a request from the Council of State colleagues in the Ministry of Health and Welfare last week?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e675	I do not know which correspondence has gone between the Ministry of Health and the Nordlands Hospital. However, I would like to distance myself from the claim that we are engaged in double communications. What we're doing in the proposition is that we're doing, among other things. define fixed employment in the law, for example: eliminate access to the type of contract which was the starting point for the entire lease-in debate, namely the form of fixed-term employment without pay between contracts, which is also referred to as slave contracts. By defining fixed employment in the way we now do, we remove the access that was the starting point for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e682	The Central Party is very pleased that the Council of State is very clear that there should be no such thing as permanent employment without pay between assignments. That's a consequence of us getting permanent employment into the law, and it's also a consequence of new Section 14-6, first paragraph, point j, which is agreed in the committee. However, what is now the challenge are fixed part-time positions in the manning industry, for example a part-time position of 30 pst. If what the government has presented is to understand that if you have a fixed part-time position of 30 pst, the employee is entitled to 30 pst. wages and salaries per month, and, where appropriate, additional pay, the possibility of overtime being paid as overtime?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e689	As I understood the question, there is a question of how to do averaging calculations. There I have seen that there has been a discussion also in the committee about whether to have a running payment, or whether to get the payments when the job is done. I see, among other things: the Centre Party wishes a smooth payment, regardless of when carrying out the task. We believe that this is not necessary, but that you should be paid when the assignment is carried out, and not necessarily when the assignment is not carried out. We believe that it is an unnecessary detailed management that is not appropriate. The way in which overtime payments and supplements are paid is probably a relationship between the employee and the employer. Whether it's part of the basic salary, or how overtime pay is to be paid, we don't take a stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e696	That was a strong wording. The new paragraph 14-6, first paragraph, point (j), says: ‘Where work is to be carried out periodically, the contract of employment shall determine or provide a basis for calculating when the work is to be carried out.’;» Together with a definition of fixed-term employment and the government writing in the proposition, everyone has understood that the intention of the Council of State was that, in the event of part-time employment in a temporary agency, the part-time employee should be paid monthly according to the rate of employment. Is it really the case that the part-time employee is not paid every month according to the rate of employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e708	What we're clarifying, and as I also explained in my article, is that one should now define fixed-term employment, and that should also be predictability in terms of the scale of the tasks and wages, so that one can plan one's working time. This means that if you have a working time where you may not have to work the same amount of time, you have to make it clear that the employee is not available – you remove the unforeseeableness you have seen in the past. Wages and salaries, volume and time should now be clarified, as opposed to what has been the case in the past. It's been a discussion, as I understand it, whether you're going to have the same pay all the time, regardless of whether you're working differently. We have not taken a decision on that. But predictability must be both in terms of the amount — how much — when and how much pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e716	We have been given access to a letter sent from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, where they ask Health Nord to send a text on why the ban on renting can have negative consequences for the hospital. Does the Council of State think it is problematic that the department is used to spread lies about a debate in the Labour and Social Committee? And does the Council of State suggest that the Department should be used to spread panic in healthcare professionals in this way – by providing incorrect information on work-related issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e721	I have not seen the letter sent from the Ministry of Health and Health to Health Nord, but I assume that the letter that may have been sent has the correct information. There is no doubt that now reducing the employability of agency rentals will, of course, also be more difficult for businesses to hire. It's not a scare propaganda, it's a clean fact. We know that healthcare companies are largely stakeholders who need to hire them. I have seen that the health and care sector has been used to justify tightening up. But it's not just the healthcare companies that will have problems with this. Any business that needs to hire temporary workers will then have difficulties with it, because it limits the ability of agencies to rent out. What Health Nord can do – in line with all other major businesses – is to organise the rental itself, by having ring vicars, or by publishing posts. But many businesses prefer to outsource this service, because it is resource-intensive for many businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e728	In the work on this matter, one of the things that has surprised me most is to document the extent of the use of manning agencies in the public sector. Norwegian Nursing Association conducted a survey in 2016 in which over 300 Norwegian municipalities replied that they were using recruitment agencies to provide temporary workers and that during the last four years before 2016 they had spent a total of 3.2 billion. NOK to purchase that type of service. Does the Council of State agree that by keeping up with its own temporary work pools, a significant amount of money can be saved because of the fact that the temporary employment agencies also charge themselves to provide their services, as well as that they provide the temporary workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e741	We need to understand that businesses have legitimate needs for rental – there may be peaks, there may be vicariates, there may be maternity leave, there may be other circumstances that make you need it. It's legitimate, it's not criminal, nor is it particularly suspicious to do so. How much you save on having your own pools, I can't stand here and say. But if you're not going to buy the service from the agencies, you have to do the service yourself, i.e. Then you also have to fill up your own HR departments. Major establishments have HR departments. For them, this is probably not going to be a very big case – they may need a little more resources – but small and medium-sized enterprises around do not have HR departments, they do not have those resources. The question is, how many resources are they going to spend on this type of service that they can buy from others? And how much are they going to build up of this kind of competence in their own house? I believe that you go too far in limiting the possibility to buy the services out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e750	The Council of State warns against requiring measures to apply to all industries, that is to say, to cancel the conclusion of the agreement, because it is not as bad as anything else. However, if there is no problem with renting, the measure will not affect anyone at all, as renting is not initially a problem. It is also strange that the Council of State believes it will be difficult to obtain temporary workers. Very familiar was it illegal with commercial rental from 1950 until the year 2000. Then the country was probably built. Homes, houses and buildings were built, and there was rent between contractors instead of renting from a commercial agency. It worked fine, and you didn't want people walking without a permanent position. I wonder if the Council of State has any thoughts about the sanctions to be met by actors who are actually violating these provisions. Should they be banished from the construction site? Should they lose their assignment? Should they get fines like scurvy? Are there any sanctions for which the Council of State is in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e757	It is fully possible to rent between production companies today, but it is usually so that the level of rent follows the economic cycle. In good times, the scale may increase, and in bad times, the scale tends to decrease. It's like there's two yards and there's a rise time, it's rise time for both yards. That means that both courts need their own people. It is not necessarily possible for one to rent out between production companies either, but access is already available. Then I think it's a challenge with the representative of Moxnes, and it's that the representative equates renting with crime, that by definition it's illegal, but that's not it. Renting is legal, and it will be legal even after a decision in this room. But the Storting makes renting more difficult even when there are perfectly legitimate needs, such as: in the case of sickness and other diseases. That's what I want to warn you, that now you're making it harder. We believe that our proposal would limit where there is a lot of unwanted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e764	As the Council itself pointed out, there are a number of possibilities for those who want to avoid increased manning needs through rentals or by having their own temporary pool. That's why Stein Lier-Hansen in Norwegian Industry has allowed us to say that for Norwegian Industry, the new rules that are being adopted today are fully compatible. It should then be possible for publicly owned establishments, such as: hospitals, to handle this in a good way. It is the government's responsibility to make sure that they are able to do so. The size has already given the government, by decision of 24 May, marshalling to reduce temporary employment in health care establishments and to increase the number of permanent jobs, which is a desired effect of what we are now adopting. Will the Council of State take responsibility for ensuring that health businesses are well informed about the changes in the rules in good time and for the follow-up of the decisions of 24 May?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e769	I do not doubt for a second that Norwegian Industry will live quite well with this. The large enterprises already have national tariff agreements, and they probably also have quite large HR departments to deal with these kinds of things. But those for whom I think the challenges are getting bigger will be the small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts, who don't have the large HR departments, or who may not have employees who are organized in the trade unions that give rise to this. I believe that Stortinget must also take into account those who have legitimate needs but who do not meet the requirements that are now being set. Then it is nice that the Workers' Party is also concerned with temporary employment in the health and care sector. They were not so concerned about the use of rentals when we changed the law on the employees of the state, as we wanted to limit the number of years that we could rent in. The government proposed to reduce from four to three years. The Labour Party then voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e776	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e783	As we have heard today, the challenges associated with the extensive use of rentals are mainly limited to the construction industry in the Oslofjord area. Therefore, the measures initially proposed were also limited to this industry, where there are documented challenges. This is important because the Labour Party stamps with its proposal all those who do not have a nationwide collective agreement with the trade movement, as unprofessional. I am not surprised that the Workers' Party puts systemic thinking ahead of flexible solutions, because when you have a basic belief that everything should fit into a box and deny that reality is flexible, it becomes like this. But punishing the entire Norwegian business is a record bomb. The Workers' Party will force companies and their employees to organise themselves. It is an attack on freedom of organisation and makes it more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises and industries. It is understandable that the Workers' Party is committed to withdrawing the contributions from the LO and others who are acquiring a place in the Central Government of the Workers' Party, but punishing serious employers to improve their level of organisation should be unsustainable, even for the Workers' Party. This proposal has not been consulted or investigated. It is both irresponsible and unaccountable that such major changes to the Labour Environment Act are to be adopted at the table of the Storting without the social partners being heard. The working party deliberately or unconsciously chokes the upswing we now see in the Norwegian economy. That the Workers' Party is doing these things, is sad, but unfortunately not surprising. But Christian People's Party? The Christian People's Party points to an increased level of organisation as an important reason for supporting the proposal. Is LO on the way into the governing bodies of the Christian People's Party as well? One thing is that the public is dependent on, as we have heard today, to meet its temporary needs in order to provide good welfare services. This applies, for example: nurses in municipalities and specialist health services. This applies to employees in kindergartens, schools and child protection. This will now be more difficult. But much worse: the proposal raises the threshold for entering the labour market. This affects the most vulnerable, such as the disabled, people with a migrant background, people with holes in the CV and young people without education and work experience. One of the Christian People's Party's representatives said in a comment to the media last week: "We have some of our basic ideas from the Bible. It is about standing up for the weakest’. The clock of using the Bible as a guide in political activity can be discussed, because between the two permafrosts stand as familiar texts that challenge both human rights and reason. But when you say it's about standing up for the weakest, but actually acting against it, it gets weird. Today's Christian People's Party is making sure to shut down the main road into the labour market. Thus, they torpedo inclusion skills, the aim of which is to give more opportunities to try out in the workplace. I'm afraid there are only two possible interpretations of the position of the Christian People's Party: either they don't understand what they're doing, or they operate with double standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e795	What this is about is a historical cleanup in Norwegian working life. The Labour Party assumes responsibility in opposition – in teams with SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. We have worked on the matter of renting workers – for the sake of workers and for the sake of family members of theirs. It's a fact that people need solid ground under their feet, they need it care, they need fixed jobs, they need clear dishes. It is time to say that enough is enough, and that it is now time to get control of developments in Norwegian working life. There's something of the back porch that we're going to tighten up the rules for tenants, by raising the rights of ordinary people. We have heard from this chair a number of concerns about the flexibility of industry and of small and medium-sized enterprises. I can assure you that there is no cause for concern. We still guarantee the flexibility needed by industry, for example. hiring specialist skills, bringing in temporary workers or taking away peaks in good times. That flexibility still exists. For the Labour Party, it has always been important that we guarantee the rights of workers, while ensuring good conditions and room for action for business. They also have that with our suggestions. There is no agreement between the right and the left of the problem description. The right-wing party believes that penetrating is not a big enough problem for them to propose powerful measures. This is where the majority of the population disagrees with the Council of State. I believe that the scope of this represents, in terms of zero-hour contracts and temporary contracts, a danger of forcing fixed additions, that it poses a danger of weakening the employee's position, and that it could also lead to the employer's less willing to invest in their additions in the long term, because they should not be there for so long. We don't want that kind of work. So I hear that the representative Wiborg and the representative Eidem Løvaas now reveal that when it comes to the government's inclusion duty, they thought he would be carried out with the crew industry in front. I don't want to say that's a lot of effort to get people to work. In practice, it means legitimizing the development of the scope of an industry that would make it bigger and more important if it had been implemented, rather than limiting it to temporary use, specialists, taking advantage of peaks – that is, the one that it is supposed to be, not the basis for which the right-hand side wants to provide. We simply have different visions for people and different visions of working life. It's pretty easy that it's now revealed and up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e812	Let there be no doubt: fixed employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Temporary employment of workers shall always be a supplement to permanent posts. Therefore, it is good that the proportion of temporary staff has not changed significantly since the introduction of the general access to temporary employment in 2015. The Government’s proposal takes a settlement with illegal hiring and strengthens the rules to make it more difficult to erode the principle of permanent employment. At the same time, it balances the need for temporary labour to avoid stoppages. The government's proposal was a good one, and a compromise between the social partners. The proposal that has been put to the vote today is not a good one. Instead of a balanced solution, we end up at one edge of the ditch. The proposal must have permanently added the manning undertakings, even if the needs of the firms purchasing the services are temporary. Can we expect that temporary workers can have permanent staff to take out temporary jobs in other enterprises? This is a bad solution that can hit business hard. It's bad for those who process our fish, and those who produce our food. They have seasonal work with peaks in production. It is bad for the industry that depends on full order books in a tough market. And it's bad for schools, kindergartens, hospitals and hospitals that are totally dependent on temporary workers to make the schedule go up. These are now hit by the left and the Christian People's Party's intrusions. Another group that is also affected is those who are out of work. Because even if we hear about horrors, most of the actors in the manning industry are serious. They do important jobs for our country, follow the Working Environment Act and contribute to inclusion. The truth is, the manning industry is a springboard into the working life of too many people. The proportion of rentals has been stable over time and is around 1,5-2 pst. of all annual works. It is small, but at the same time it means that every year there are 80,000 employees in temporary employment companies who get a job to go to. About 40 pst. by the temporary staff in the manning industry comes from unemployment and almost 20 pst. from the school bench. Those who are given a new opportunity through the manning industry are often the young. There are people with no formal competence, holes in the CV. There are seniors in the workplace, and there are people with disabilities and with migrant backgrounds. These are important groups that are included. Unfortunately, the alternative is often unemployment and social security. In the context of the challenges facing the construction industry in the Oslo area, action must be directed towards it and not against enterprises, public service production and people who are struggling to get a job. It's unfair, unsocial and irresponsible. If we're going to succeed in the inclusion dungeon, we all need good forces on the team. This also applies to the manning industry. We must never forget that a foot within the working life is, after all, better than having both legs on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e835	This is a joyous day for us who are concerned with a serious work life, how permanent and full jobs are the main rule. It's a modern rule. My party was formed to ensure the safety of the workers and a decent wage to live off. We're still not in the goal, but today we're taking a step in the right direction. The right-wing representatives reacted unisonly when it became known that a majority in the Grand Duchy is in favour of narrowing down labour market rents. Sad, that was the word I often saw again in reading posts, in social media and in debates. I don't know if they've learned from their sister party president over the pond that ends many of their posts with the word sat!, or if they've just misunderstood what we're adopting here today. Firstly, the right-wing government's proposal to liberalise the rental industry is radical. The fact that agency agencies will have an extended right of temporary employment would put our working life back in time – a time when we have come by through political struggles in the workplace and at the Stortinget. Secondly, the proposals that get a majority here today provide a more inclusive working life, more security of income for current and future workers and their families. That's an important point for me. Not only do we clean up today's workers a little more secure, but we clean up so that future workers can also meet a working life with permanent and full jobs. In the next few years, we will have a huge need for more skilled workers. I want to bring forward two sectors. Now that the Stortinget, the large Workers' Party-driven cities and the parties in the construction industry are in the process of cleaning up the construction industry, we will need a lot of skilled workers to build the country. Now, after many years of decline, skilled workers are trained in construction in Oslo. When the public imposes requirements on the industry and the serious enterprises go ahead, that is impossible. In the future, we will be able to get a productive construction industry with solid and entire jobs, which is attractive for Norwegian youth to bet on. The other sector is health. Our public health system is in many ways the crown jewel of the Norwegian welfare community. Now there are clouds in the horizon. There are more elderly people and many municipalities notice that the unmet needs are growing. We need tens of thousands of new health professionals in the coming years. And who is it that with the hand of the heart can say that Norwegian youth will bet on this when there are always part-time and temporary jobs, preferably in recruitment agencies, waiting at the other end? The size of the population today adopts important changes in Norwegian working life, and the Labour Party continues to fight for more security and less inequality in the labour market. We act locally and nationally, whether it is the municipality of Sveio that increases the basic staffing of the nursing home to reduce rent and increase the quality of care for the elderly, or Bergen that creates its own temporary pool. The great project of social democracy is to build the dance floor where people can dance their lives. A safe working life is the most important support... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e854	Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e859	The general rule of Norwegian working life shall be permanent and full-time. We all agree on that. It shall also apply to manning undertakings. At the same time, we must recognise that permanent posts are not suitable for everyone. The truth is that nurses and doctors who come to Norway to carry out vital health and care tasks do not want or have the possibility of being more closely linked to permanent manning establishments. They like to have a permanent position in their home country and come to Norway to take a shorter or longer job when it suits them. They are attractive workers and must be lured into Norway to take up their duties. In order to find the right skills, recruitment agencies often have to face the full risk of the labour market in our neighbouring countries. The reason is simple: there are too few Norwegian nurses and doctors to take these assignments. Closing the door to temporary jobs in manning companies will directly affect the recruitment of health professionals to cover critical tasks in the Norwegian health service. In 2017, the staff companies delivered nearly 800,000 medical and nursing homes to the hospitals. This includes approx. 57,000 different doctors and nurses. It is not much compared with the health enterprises themselves employ; it is about 300000 persons employed in the Norwegian health system. At the same time, there are many small margins as to whether the watch layer can be filled, whether the specialist departments have a specialist, or whether the departments can remain open in the most critical parts of the holiday settlement. What distinguishes hospitals is that it is absolutely necessary to ensure adequate staffing through weekends, holidays and holiday settlements in order to ensure proper operation, while ensuring that their own staff are properly completed as far as possible. It is particularly challenging to find sufficient medical specialists and specialist nurses, especially in the absence of medical doctors in watch-keeping teams or to maintain a minimum staffing of specialist nurses. If a medical watch team does not hold a minimum crew, this may result in the removal of guards. It can affect important functions. This applies to both large and small hospitals. If short-term use of competent healthcare professionals is not provided, this could affect patient treatment and, in particular, emergency functions for individual disciplines. Unfortunately, health firms themselves are not able to manage the renting of temporary workers in the same way as the employment agencies — nor with internal recruitment centres. Manning agencies use considerable resources to have a good overview of the international labour market and have many customers. This means that they have more opportunities to provide according to the needs of health businesses than they would have been able to do. The consequence of not adopting the new Staff Regulations may be serious. It is irresponsible and unnecessary of the left and Christian People's Party to create uncertainties and concerns about the recruitment of health professionals, the provision of health care and patients in hospitals in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e872	Norway probably has the safest and most well-organised working life in the world. It's a value in Norwegian society. But we should also be aware that working life can be so protected that it will be very difficult for many, even almost impossible for some, to get a foot inside. We are used to the fact that the red-green parties draw up a false dichotomy in these debates where the contradictions are said to be between those who want people to have a permanent job and those who want people to have a temporary job, secure income or uncertain income, employed labour or hired labour. If only it had been that simple! The reality is that everyone in this room agrees that fixed work should be the general rule of Norwegian working life, that we want as many as possible to have a safe income and that we want to limit the proportion of hired labour. The problem is just that too many people are the alternative temporary job or no job. For many, the option of insecure income is a period of time or going for even longer as unemployed with an increased risk of becoming a permanent social welfare beneficiary. For many enterprises, the option of hired-in labour or of submitting tenders for a project is neither an option nor an option of weakening the basis for guaranteeing a firm job to more people. If you are concerned about Norwegian competitiveness, if you are concerned about having a working life that is available to you for the most part, we must at least make sure that we have a targeted policy when we are making cuts in an already strictly regulated labour market. Today we're doing the opposite. In its proposal, the government had proposed limiting the restrictions to that part of the working life where we have a problem. Instead, the Storting goes in with the Christian People's Party votes to shoot sparrows with cannons. This will also enable us to achieve unintended objectives. Instead of tightening up where we all agree that we have too high a rent share, the majority in the United Kingdom today chooses to tighten up for all branches, because some of these hypothetically might get into a problem with too much rent some time in the future. This is not how we create a trusting relationship between government and business. The losers today are those who get a closed access to the labour market, and it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that get worse conditions of competition. I'd say that's a sad outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e881	First, a question to the president: why doesn't the president club when the representative Eidem Løvaas is standing here saying that someone is buying space in the Central Government of the Workers Party? So to the matter: the arguments in today's debate are exactly the same as when, in March 2015, the Stortinget, against major protests and general strikes, weakened the protection of the working environment law against temporary employment? Also, at the time the government parties claimed that increased access to temporary employment would provide more of those outside the labour market with good opportunities to enter the labour market, despite the fact that all experience from other countries, summarised by the OECD, showed that increased access to temporary employment does not provide more jobs, only increased temporaryity with the negative consequences it has for workers who are particularly vulnerable — young people, immigrants, partially disabled, but also families at the start-up stage. Now the government will do it again. Manning companies shall be granted a new authorisation for the more frequent use of temporary staff. The risk of non-execution is shifted to the employees. Increased temporaryity particularly affects women of childbearing potential. Increased temporaryity is simply a bad family policy. It should be a cross of thought for more than the red-green parties and the Christian People's Party. Government parties say in the setting that rental challenges are limited to the construction industry, but that is wrong. Let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Just before Christmas, the evening post had an article showing that Norwegian municipalities have paid close to a billion to one of the country’s largest health insurers, and that has also had a large part of the business in low tax countries and transactions through tax havens. No one checked the pay and employment conditions of the workers. The health and care sectors are women-dominated jobs with a significant amount of involuntary part-time among self-employed persons. When the Equality Ombudsman looked at complaints about the discrimination of pregnant women in the labour market, the whole of the 55 pst was valid. of the cases of recruitment, including the renewal or extension of vicariates or other temporary posts. TNS Gallup had a similar situation, where more than half of the women reported having experienced discrimination in relation to pregnancy or parental leave. Very many of them were employed in temporary jobs. One out of five had not experienced a prolongation of their employment. So it was before the access to temporaryity was extended back in 2015. Women work more often in temporary jobs. There are women who get pregnant between assignments. The average age of the first child goes up, the birth rate drops. Losing the job is not a good start to life as a newly-baked parent. I refuse to believe that the government parties do not also understand it, but a gender and family-friendly labour policy is not important enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e896	The President deems the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas’ claim to be refuted by the post of the representative Christoffersen. Otherwise, the president also assumes that no one can buy space in any party's central government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e903	Before the weekend we were presented with new unemployment figures from Nav, which show that the unemployment rate continues to decline. 2.3 pst. The unemployment rate is as low as we have not seen since 2009. And these are good and important figures for us to be able to achieve a sustainable welfare society in the future as well. But one of the backsides of this might be that it's getting harder to recruit critical crews for example. hospitals and municipalities. Today many nurses and doctors from Scandinavian countries are recruited through recruitment agencies to meet the unsolved needs of us. These are employees who have a permanent position in another country but are associated with the agency here in the country and are initially not interested in permanent employment here. They use vacations or up-to-date leisure time to meet the essential and necessary needs of our hospitals or hospitals. If the proposal promoted by the majority here today is adopted by the votes of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, then these parties contribute to the weakening of vital and necessary competences – which are also important in District Norway. I'm sorry. But what's most regrettable if the proposal to remove the permit for temporary employment for the employment agencies is that the same parties are involved in tightening their legs under people who really need help to get back into the labour market. Jørn Tvervik in AS3 Employment in Bodø did not believe his own ears when I spoke to him today. AS3 Employee had helped 91 people into permanent work last year – and only in Bodø – and so far this year 43 people have helped into a regular job again. Some of these are people who have had to deal with mental problems. They may have had drug problems and they may have holes in the CV. The most important thing for them has been to reconnect with the labour market, and through AS3 Employment they have been given permanent employment through temporary employment first. I have to say, I think it's sad when the majority in the European Parliament today seems to forget these people in their eagerness to implement this change – especially by going for such a decision without prior investigation of the consequences of such a radical change. In the government's proposition, there are proposals for tightening up the construction sector, which we know is difficult, especially here in Oslo. But taking all the staffing agencies in the same sling is going to be the wrong medicine. I might also ask the Christian People's Party here to think of a good mountain sweat rule: it's no shame to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e918	I can understand why a desire for better regulation of the manning industry in order to defeat unprofessional actors who make and break the legislation. But now everyone is being punished for a problem that is initially confined to the construction industry in the Oslo area. It's irresponsible, it's unfair, and it's unsocial. It becomes extra unsocial when the measures hit those who sit at the very bottom of the table, those who strive to find a job. Today, the left side and the Christian People's Party bear responsibility for them. I do not know myself again in the picture on the left has drawn from the manning industry. I have cooperated with many through a long professional career and have been in dialogue with even more as a major representative. The last week's enquiries have been massive – from worried entrepreneurs, managers and employees in small and medium-sized enterprises to hospitals, schools and kindergartens, frustrated students, mothers and fathers, who can tell many stories from the industry. I worked with recruiting in ASKO and was engaged in the inclusion service in practice. I had some meetings with individuals that I'm never going to forget. For these people is not a job to go to something that is self-written, and that comes of itself. These people have fought every single millimeter to get into the world of work. For them, the job means everything, it's an opportunity. It may seem like you have to experience this for yourself, in real life, in order to understand the value of it. One of the people who got a job through the personnel industry in Eastfold is Paal. Paal is a welder and came for an interview. He broke, and the CV showed a big hole in two years. His father had gone away in that time, and he had abused drugs. Now, I guess my job opportunities are gone, he said. No, the agency answered, if we can be as open as you are now, we'll try. The agency called one of their firm, good customers and told Paal's story. The company gave Paal a chance, and shortly afterwards he had a regular job. Today, five years later, he's still working there. Without a close and good relationship with the agency, the company had not dared to take him into work. Openness and good relations changed Paal's history. He got another chance. Only three years ago, the Christian People's Party participated in lowering the threshold into working life by opening up general access to temporary employment. Although this occurred at the same time as Norway lost 50 000 jobs in oil, the preliminary evaluation has shown that it did not lead to any more temporary jobs. The threshold was lowered, but many more needed jobs. Today, when unemployment has fallen, and we could finally include several people who have been far away from work, the Christian People's Party chooses to raise the threshold again. We have to be allowed to say that is sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e931	In North Norway – and in Lofoten, where I come from – things are going very well for the time being. It's a huge growth. «Unemployment» has almost become a foreign word, but a common challenge for working life in the north right now is to get enough labour. Working in the fishing industry in winter and snow in summer is not attractive to today's youth. The solution has been the rental of foreign seasonal labour through recruitment agencies — and this is a solution that has served the region very well. Will illegalities in the construction industry in Oslo destroy decisive labour force for the small businesses in the north that do not have a central tariff agreement? I have been the rapporteur in a municipality with a local hospital, and I am well aware of the reason why we are able to maintain the emergency functions of our local hospital and community health services. It is due to the hiring of specialist personnel via the agency. These are permanent staff specialists in the rest of the world who take on vacations and on vacations so that we can maintain our emergency functions. We're not getting access to Norwegian labour. The impact of the decision proposed today is very uncertain for the emergency services and local hospitals in the north. It can have dramatic consequences and appear to be hostile to districts. Can the parties behind the proposal guarantee that this will not cause the emergency functions in the north to deteriorate, that we will get health specialists, and that departments and emergency functions will not have to be shut down? Are the proposers aware of this risk that important emergency functions in our local hospitals cannot be maintained and closed as a result of this Decision? Is this a calculated risk you want in a political crusade against the manning industry? Does it really mean that hospitals should run their own agencies rather than provide health care? Although political ideology is important and the ideals are high, it has a practical impact on individuals who are affected. In this case, it's the weakest, namely the patients in North Norway. I can promise that the air ambulance case can be blueberries in relation to the consequences that could result from this. But there is a big difference: this is done deliberately, it is done in a political decision. And I ask, where are the warnings from Red Mads Gilbert, and where is the party Red? It is now proposed without consultation, without any impact assessment, without the social partners being consulted. It appears undemocratic and not according to the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e945	I have read the letter from Managing Director Paul Martin Strand at the Nordlandssykehuset. That's an advantage. The managing director tells me that he did not know well about the proposal, and he did not know when the law would come into force. The Director shall be made up as follows: ‘Elements in amendments could have unintended negative consequences...’. He doesn't write that it will get, but it 'will be able to get'. When I confront the director that he presents a story here, which is a horror story, the director answers with: I just wrote that it will be able to get. - It's not serious. What is the matter is that there is no basis for saying that a person cannot be hired from a manning company to a hospital in the future. It is only the temporary agency that has to employ these specialists in a permanent capacity. They can hire them in a fixed part-time job – a fixed part-time job. If the agencies do not wish to hire them in a fixed part-time position, they may communicate these specialists to the health undertaking. It has been legal, and it will be legal to do so in the future. What further shows that the Director does not have an overview of what is happening in the Stortinget is the majority decision taken in the Stortinget on 24 May in connection with the examination of a similar case by the Health Committee, in which the following was adopted, with the support of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party: ‘The government is asking for the phasing-out of the use of external rentals in healthcare enterprises in parallel with the increased use of permanent workers temporary workers, also known as temporary work pools.’ I am pleased that the Christian People's Party supported that proposal. So this is a message to the government to carry out what I am now quoting. It would be quite strange if we were now to adopt something that is contrary to it, because after all, it is not long from 24 May until today. It is important that health business managers address matters. And it is not particularly reliable that political management in the department sends out messages that are also not correct, to which health businesses must respond, cf. the letter from which it is referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e968	Today there is a certain danger that my neighbor will be unemployed after the decisions taken here today. There is talk in this room as if there is a choice between either a permanent job or a temporary agency, and that at the end of a non-existing agency there is a permanent job. The reality is that at the end of that legislation there is unemployment. It is an important function that is filled by these agencies. We all know that in the reality we live in, there's not always a building project going completely as it should. It's not like the Ulsteinvik, Stord or Fitjar courts decide when the missions come – they have to have the people in place when the missions come. It is not the work plan of the fruit farmers of Ullenswang who decide when the morelles are ripe – they must have people in place when the morelles are, otherwise they rot on the trees. It is not the entrepreneurs in Voss who decide when the race goes – they must have people in place as soon as it has gone. It is not the farmers at Hardangerfjorden who determine the temperature of the fjord and thus when the salmon is ripe for slaughter, nor is it the salmon slaughterhouse that determines when to come – they must both have people in place when it is ready. With the situation established in the context of the legislation now being proposed and seems to have a majority here, it will be possible for one enterprise at one end of the fjord, for example. Marine Harvest, who has an agreement with the right, while for the other, where father and son have never realized that they should be members of different associations, where the employee is heir and the employer is father, it is not allowed. We set up some kind of Animal Farm legislation where some are similar to others. It's a little interesting to hear how this is spoken against rentals and agencies, while saying that it's okay as long as the union has approved it. It's a strange state. Either you think this practice is crazy, or you think it's right. But you don't – you think it's right if the union thinks so, but it's crazy if the union doesn't mean it. The fact that it is not years of value creation, where one has followed all the laws and regulations, has done everything a debt, and has been on the right side of the law every single day of every year one has run the business, which has meaning, but whether one has been registered in the right association, and whether that association has the right to propose judges under labour law, which should be the basis for whether this is law or not, is a rather unfair treatment of small entrepreneurs who are going to compete with large companies, you ask me. We will see if my neighbour has a job after this debate is over, and the responsibility lies in this room, because no one should believe that what is happening here will not mean fewer assignments to Norwegian companies and more people who are going unemployed any longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e983	According to Nav's 2018 business survey, Norway 44 400 people are missing to fill in the available options. In the health sector alone, there is a shortage of 10,200 people, including 6,000 nurses. We are totally dependent on laymen and nurses who can actually have permanent work in their home country, but who come to Norway to take a shorter or longer job. Leasers made up a total of 1,500 years' work for nurses last year. Fixed addition should be the general rule, but the reality is that some municipalities, such as Hattfjelldal, must lure 100,000 in bonuses to get Swedish nurses to stay longer. Some people talk about foreign labour competing with the Norwegian, but many places are not Norwegian to compete with. In 2017, the Arbeitsforskningsinstitut examined how nurses and warehouse workers experienced Norwegian staffing agencies. It turned out that the nurses often have more power because they can change the agency if they are dissatisfied. The majority of Swedish nurses said that they took temporary work in Norway to get more pay, less stressful employment and more control over the balance between work and leisure. In addition, it appears that it has contributed to the fact that nurses in Sweden have to some extent been able to fight for better pay, even in their own country of origin. The agency today helps Norwegian hospitals and the whole of Health Norway to walk around. The question is, will we get more or less injured nurses if everyone now has to be permanently appointed to a crew company?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e994	Today we come a big step on the road in the fight for a serious and safe working life. I'm very happy about that. Today, we have to raise the level of contract for tenants to apply to companies that have entered into a collective agreement with the union with the right to set off, define house agreements and serviette agreements that until now have made the job very difficult, especially for the Labour Inspectorate. We also prevent a serious liberalisation of labour-environment laws that would have provided even less security for staffing agencies. The Christian People's Party has cooperated well with us in this matter and submitted five loose proposals, and SV will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 7 and No 11th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, some places refer to § 14-9, second paragraph, letter f, which is the general opening for temporary additions. This is, as we know, strongly opposed, but we understand that it would be particularly complicated to make proposals without pointing this out. The second paragraph of point (f) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9 of the proposal is replaced by the following: 8, from the Christian People's Party, as SV here is allowed to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1001	The debate has been somewhat predictable, perhaps with the exception of the Socialist Left Party's Solfrid Lerbrück, who was concerned with which trade unions, if any, Jesus would be a member. The representative of the Bears of the Moxnes believed the Advance Party and the government does not want to punish the crime of working life. It's directly wrong. This government has increased the level of penalties for crime at work, and we have taken action and provided more controls in the workplace, so that we are constantly getting more unprofessional actors, which is beneficial to all the big and serious players, which is the majority. What concerns me, and which I miss a little in the debate today, is the idea of what kind of working life we have in 2018. We need to be careful not to create systems that are adapted to the working life we had 20–30–40 years ago, with large corner stone companies that had a large organisation and the ability to deal with the challenges of illness or peaks. Now we have a different working life, with an increasing number of small and medium-sized enterprises and an increasing number of workers who choose not to be organized themselves, as they think they can take care of their interests in other ways. We must respect that, and we must not now make anti-diversity proposals that span bones under the small and innovative actors. It's particularly sad, I think, that the Christian People's Party chooses here to make it harder for more people to get into the world of work: the drug user with big holes in the CV, but who has finally got the order of life, but who might not hire an employer. Then I think it is a pity that today you want to deprive that person of the opportunity to get one foot inside, show up and hopefully get a steady job. After all, research shows that temporary employees or temporary workers end up in permanent employment to a large extent. I have some questions for the representative of the Christian People's Party on the proposals No. Nine and ten. They first want to adopt something, and then they will be investigated – afterwards – but the investigation will be submitted before the law enters into force. Does that mean that if the investigation shows that this is unfortunate, the decisions of the Christian People's Party are making sure that they have a majority for now, will they come forward with urgent proposals and stop these proposals before they come into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1012	The Christian People's Party is a Christian Democratic Center party located in the tension field between the right and the left of Norwegian politics. It's a fact that many of the debaters have difficulty dealing with, but it's still a fact. It gets lonely around us in the center gradually, but we're still there. The Christian People's Party is the centre party that can contribute to budgetary settlement. The Christian People's Party is the party that can find good solutions for a property tax model that allows us to gradually write down the property tax and taxes on working capital. And the Christian People's Party is the centre party that can also contribute to shifting the balance of power towards the workers' side when we see a trend towards increased immaturity and cynical exploitation of unorganized labour. I must say that I am surprised when the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas suggests that the grips we take today are choking the growth of the Norwegian economy. Does the representative of Løvaas think that including a paragraph in the Working Environment Act that actually prevents a group of workers in Norway from ever being able to get a permanent job helps us to keep growing in Norway? Does the representative think that if we want to raise the level of organisation to enter into written agreements on fixed-term rentals, will it torment Norwegian business? In 2015, the Christian People's Party participated in the formation of a majority of the Working Environment Act § 14–9 second paragraph (f), a general admission to temporary employment for up to 12 months. At that time, the intention was to give groups who were weak in the labour market, easier access, just one of the arguments that we listened to. Proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party, is a clarification that that paragraph will not be changed now. We expect the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left to be with us on this. Finally, I would like to say that it is sad when you sometimes experience that it is almost drawn scare images of organized labour. Members of trade unions around the country are not interested in putting chains in the wheels for value creation and day-to-day operation in small enterprises around Norway. On the contrary, they want to make an active contribution to keeping the wheels spinning and for the money to flow in. The need for temporary workers does not go away even if we tighten up the use of temporary employment agencies. Students and unemployed will continue to be long-term temporary workers, but we believe that it is a better solution that businesses and public agencies provide more... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1027	The next speaker is Per Olaf Lundtigen. The president reminds us that we have a speaking time to hold. A second over is fine, but nothing much longer than that. Then the president will have to break in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1034	The representative, Wiborg, says there's going to be a longer way into the world of work. The representative, Breivik, says I'm closing doors and raising thresholds. That's not right. What we're doing is we're getting clearer rules. The Norwegian system is permanent employment. Now we're defined in the law as running and time indefinite. Enterprises still have access to temporary employment under the Working Environment Act § 14–9 other paragraphs – both to take up job stops and to take part in vicariates. There is no change in the access of businesses to temporary employment. Enterprises can continue to hire workers from other production enterprises — no change. We have good international rules on leave and unemployment, and it eliminates the risk to employers and strengthens the conditions for employees in the case of permanent employment. This is related as a whole. Enterprises may use callers forward, as they use callers today. Enterprises can use subcontractors, as companies use subcontractors today. So the case applies to manning companies. All the time, it has been the intention of the law to employ permanent staff. However, NHO Service and Handel have abused their role by establishing a contract of employment called ‘fixed unpaid employment’. Why do we think they've used the term 'fixed employment'? Well, because you had to call it permanent employment. If someone didn't write it, it was against the law. But then they added 'without pay between jobs'. That's funny! It's cool to make such a combination to turn away. NHO Service and Commerce are creative. They have now tasted the consequences of their creativity by tightening it up. I'm glad that the government is involved in it, by defining fixed-term employment. If the employment agencies are unable to employ permanently, the employment agencies may provide staff. They are fully entitled to provide labour between the applicant groups and those companies that need temporary labour. There's no change in it. This is a thoughtful proposal, and serious companies and crew companies will play a role in the future. The centre party has never said or proposed to prohibit them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1045	The President will commend the use of time by the President-in-Office, that he stayed within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1050	A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for having a good family life. Both working life and family life in Norway are under pressure and there is a need to implement measures. The Centre Party has been making concrete proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act over several years, and we are pleased that the Stortinget is taking important steps in the right direction today. Not least, it's important that you get a clear definition of what permanent employment is and get it into the law. Finally, you will ensure that a so-called permanent job is banned without pay between assignments. But I have to say that it is particularly special when I hear the Council of State in reply here earlier today state that a fixed position in a given job percentage should not give predictability as to what kind of monthly salary you are to be paid. If an employee, whether in 20 pst., 30 pst. or 50 pst. position, is the usual understanding that a person receives a fixed monthly payment equal to the job percentage that you have, and then receives any supplement that you may have, in addition to that. I want to ask the Council of State to come up again and make it concrete that that's actually what's meant by law, and if not, what's the reason for that. The new section 14-9, on permanent employment, states: ‘Worker shall be employed permanently. For the purposes of this Act, permanent employment means that employment is continuous and unlimited, that the rules of the Act on termination of employment apply and that workers are guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment.» Of course, a very fundamental part of the predictability that you have as a permanent employee is that a person is paid every month in line with the percentage of employment that you have. For the discussion on the second paragraph of Section 14-12, extended access to rentals, to trade union with adjustment rights: Government parties believe that this should be limited only to buildings and installations, where the problems are greatest today. They clearly consider that austerity as an active measure to that industry, and I assume that the representative Nilsen, who was in the pulpit here, and other representatives from the government parties, do not believe that it is a suspicion of establishments in construction and construction that are legally operating today. No, it's about ensuring neat and serious relationships. There is also a need in other sectors where there are today problems with increased rentals. There is a need for a reduction that is general and also goes to clean-up, restaurant or other industries. There is a need to make changes, there is a need to tighten up, and the size of the population is currently taking important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1073	As a northerner, I think this is a sad day. This debate is based on the problems surrounding the construction industry in the Oslo area. But what unfortunately seems to be a majority in this matter affects all sectors, and this will hit us in the north very hard. In Northern Norway, and especially in Northern Norway, we have an increase in the number of persons employed, or the number of jobs, but not in the number of inhabitants. If the companies in North Norway are to be able to cope with the future, they will depend on the rentals and the recruitment agencies. We have to assume that it's not everyone who's been spared to live in North Norway all year round. Then we have to make sure that those who want to be there in periods of time have the opportunity. What worries me the most is the health care system. Even though we have university hospitals, we can't deliver enough doctors and nurses to North Norway. We are simply dependent on people wanting to work with us for periods. To put it plainly: without Sweden, North Norway had not gone around. And fixed part-time jobs are not a topic for this working group. Most of them are already in full-time employment and permanent jobs in other countries. The proposals that the Left and the Christian People's Party are now voting for not only affect the construction industry and the Oslo area. They hit all industries in general, and North Norway in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1084	This is still a sad day for the Right Party and the Advance Party, and I want to go through some of the claims made by the government parties in this article. The representative Larsen said that hospitals have difficulty ensuring sufficient staffing without temporary hiring from staff agencies. That's a pretty fresh claim, especially after the decisions that have been made, also now in the Stortinge in May. Hospitals cannot rely on temporary employment from employment agencies. The representative Larsen went on to say that health care companies do not have the opportunity to manage rents from temporary workers. I then recommend that the Health Committee go on a study trip, among other things. to Bergen, where the hospital has done this for many, many years. Several right-wing representatives have also claimed that temporary posts in employment agencies are necessary for people to get a foot in the workplace, and that without it there will be more unemployed. My question is: Do you need a temporary position to be included in the labour market? Of course, that's not right. In 2015, the Working Environment Act was weakened. The result is more temporary jobs, no more jobs. So the representative said Ebbesen that the staffing agencies represent vital competence in District Norway, and that it will disappear with this. I strongly disagree with that claim. The competence of District Norway is out in the companies, with the skilled workers, the engineers and the management of the companies. The competence of District Norway does not depend on the shoulders of temporary posts in recruitment agencies. It stands on the shoulders of those who are permanent employees skilled in many of the industrial enterprises along the coast. They are now struggling, for example: because the competing activity is based on hired labour. It is clear that the right has no remaining visions of employment policy. In health care, we are to rely on foreign hired nurses in temporary jobs. There's no desire to clean up. It's just sad. I'm just happy because the Storting makes wise, thoughtful and forward-looking decisions for more safety in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1097	Yes, it is a happy day for everyone who is concerned about the seriousness of Norwegian working life, but the debate shows what we have experienced several times when discussing measures against social dumping, that the fight against social dumping is a political fight against the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. I can assure the Council of State that the proposals currently under discussion are discussed with the social partners. We put them in the last period. I, for my part, had meetings with both NHO, LO and NHO and LO industry associations and discussed these proposals – in a good spirit of tripartite cooperation, for all of these are concerned that we should strengthen serious working life. It is in line with the Norwegian model, as opposed to what happened when the government introduced access to temporary employment, took away collective redress and took on a general strike in Norway. And to those who have LO scares, I would like to stress that it wasn't a general strike that LO did; it was YS, it was Unio, there were many trade unions and associations that did it. So the Government's answer is that we need a new warrant for temporaryity. However, with regard to the horrors of not even being able to carry out seasonal work in Norway in the future, I can rest assured that it will be all right – fruit in Hardanger, fish in northern Norway, fish processing. I have experience of it myself. The last time I was in the woods, in 2002, I worked in the summer – typically seasonal work, doing cleaning work – along with a bunch of checkers. But those Czechs could have me safe on proper pay and working conditions, because they followed the tariff that I went on – because it was a serious employer who had made an appointment with, in that case, the Joint Confederation. The serious employers can do it just like before, but since that time something has developed, where someone has found calling an agreement between one employee and one employer for a collective agreement, calling him a trustee and using a hole in the law, and that's the hole that's now closing. And it's disappointing that you don't want to be involved in cleaning it up. Similarly, Norwegian labour market actors in Norway, trust elected and employers have agreed on what a permanent employment is — until some were creative enough to invent the concept of ‘fixed employment without pay between jobs’. When someone finds these holes, we get to close them. And there's probably going to be a need to close more forwards. No, this is an ideological struggle between those engaged in the Norwegian model, the safe society of employers and workers against liberalism. And the worst thing I think is when we hear the liberals start using the weakest in the labour market to justify being for an unsafe labour market – only the weakest get bad enough conditions, they'll probably get to work. No, it is liberalism, it is contrary to the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1110	I'm startled by the reality description that some people promote. The Left and Christian People's Party, together with LO, have succeeded in drawing a warped image of Norwegian companies, the crew industry and what are the real challenges in Norwegian working life. This is a matter that has commitment, and it arouses feelings. Neither of us wants a working life where people are abused and do not have security of income the next day. That's why we've been working on finding a solution. In the proposition, measures are measured against each other in order to balance the needs one has clearly identified and had an in-depth assessment of. The rules for permanent employment are strongly tightened in order to bring the zero-hour contracts to life. At the same time, there is the promotion of a separate legal basis for narrow access to temporary work, and a tightening up the possibility of rentals in the sector with the biggest problems, namely the construction sector. The measures in the proposal are fine-tuned to balance the needs of both parties in tripartite cooperation. Today, the Christian People's Party picks parts of this package and regulates the business according to the entry method, without investigation, without having been consulted, without taking into account both parties. The NHO said during the hearing that it was a balanced and good compromise, but they warned against taking measures that were broader. Norwegian Industry said we're in a world championship. If business can't do the job here, it's done by someone else. The motive of the Christian People's Party is family policy. They will prevent people employed by the manning companies from leaving without a fixed wage between jobs. The consequence will now be that they are in and close an entrance gate to the labour market. I can't believe it's supposed to be a good family policy. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party will be with the left to raise the level of agreement for all branches, which will affect businesses in the districts. They often struggle to get qualified employees. In addition, they only have a house agreement, between management and employees. Now companies will be forced to become members of the NHO or Works, while employees will have to register in, for example, LO. Increasing the level of contracts for all industries due to one specific industry is a serious error. This must always be fact-based. The way to increase the level of organisation is devastating for the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. Then we also raise the threshold into working life. This restricts the freedom of organisation and makes it more difficult for enterprises that rely on hired labour. ‘That unfortunate conditions in the construction industry in Oslo will have such consequences for the whole country, and the entire manning industry is unfortunate’ said a leading article in the fatherland friend this week. I will not call it unlucky; I will call it thoughtless and unprofessional. Norwegian working life and those who are outside are left as the big losers. We have heard many times in the debate here today that we have no desire to clean up. I hope everyone heard the measures I told you about now, which are balanced in relation to each other, and to the representative Knutsen I can only say that one must not have a temporary position to get into work, but for very many it is a good help, and it is being strangled today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1129	Manning companies have only legal activity under the first paragraph of § 14-12 of the Working Environment Act and the second paragraph of 14-12. Many have raised the second paragraph of § 14-12, where we tighten up and demand an agreement with a trade union with the right to cancel the contract under the Employment Dispute Act. Few have talked about the first paragraph of § 14-12 of the Act. The central party, the Workers' Party and the SV are in favour of limiting the access of the crew companies to use the first paragraph of § 14-12 – i.e. without agreement with trade unionists – to what all people believe is the job of the crew companies, namely to offer temporary workers, i.e. to cover up the Vicariat, which is enshrined in the Working Environment Act § 14-9, first paragraph, point (b). We are therefore in favour of matching what people understand is the job, and what should be the legitimate job. In order to underline this, we include in the text that the lessee shall, upon request of the crew member, disclose that the rental relates to a Vicariat. Furthermore, the Centerpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV take up a new § 14-12 seventh paragraph, on collective redress law. This is necessary when we know the insecurity experienced by staff members in their employment, and the corresponding weak level of professional organisation in recruitment agencies reinforces the need for collective redress. Collective legal remedies are necessary to create a more equitable relationship between employees and employers. Several have been involved in the follow-up to the legislative changes that are now taking place, i.e. the role of the Labour Inspectorate, which is enshrined in Section 18-6 of the Act. Following the view of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, Section 18-6, which empowers the Labour Inspectorate to comply with the laws, must be amended so that they can get that job when the Act enters into force. We must therefore ensure that the law is practiced, we must ensure that we are given the law and order in the field of working life as well. We're getting clearer rules with what's happening today. They will be easier to follow up on jobs, for employers, for other employers and for the Labour Inspectorate. There will be clearer rules, less grey zones and less work-life crime. So we get a more well-organized working life, which is the foundation and basis of a safer family life. And I would like to stress what the Christian People's Party representative, Reten, said that trade union organisation is actively contributing to progress. It contributes to confidence, it contributes to better productivity, it contributes to a balance of work that is important to maintain, because it makes progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1144	For the Right, it is important to create a society with opportunities for everyone and small differences. So when we know that one of the biggest differences is between those who are at work and those who are out of work, then we have to create more jobs and let more people participate. At the same time, we must build a safe, serious and decent working life. When the rental level in the Oslo area is high, we tighten up, impose stricter requirements on permanent employment and strengthen the fight against the crime of working life. Those who don't follow the rules have to tighten up, and those who don't get sharpened have to go away. But that someone needs medicine doesn't mean that everyone has to be medicated. When we know that the major challenges are in the manning industry in construction, we have to start there. Throughout the country, including my own home country, Rogaland, we now see a growing optimism and new jobs being created. But the rise is vulnerable, and businesses need some flexibility. That's why I think it's very bad that the Workers' Party and the majority will play this progress and tighten the screw so fast and so hard that it can crack quickly. Most people who get a job in a staffing agency often get a fast job. Too many people have a gateway to the world of work. A little while ago, I became acquainted with the story of a family father with three children. This father was not like all other fathers. He was convicted, had served his sentence, and admitted that he had failed his family in the most serious way. But now he was going to settle for himself. After only six months of hired employment, he has worked there for over ten years. He got the chance, and he took it. There are many like him, knocking on the door into work, so let's open that door, don't lock it. With the right, we're going to create more jobs and participate more, while building a safe, serious and decent working life. We do this best with thoughtful measures, not by risking inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1155	This case is a good example of how Oslo-centred politicians propose policy solutions that will simply affect the districts. It has been said from this pulpit that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are shooting cannons as they try to solve a challenge in the construction industry that is confined to the Oslo area. Hospitals, health and care in the districts depend entirely on using staffing agencies to fill the tour lists and ensure proper staffing in the hospitals under Health Nord. That no one in this room takes this seriously shows how little districts are cared for by the Oslo-centred policy. This proposal has not been in consultation, it is irresponsible, and it undermines the Norwegian model. It is not the responsibility of the opposition to propose laws that have not been consulted. The representatives of the Labour and Social Committee have themselves been out and obtained information to find out how this proposal will be affected, inter alia. the health sector. I think it is great that the Health and Welfare Committee is active in this debate, precisely because it helps to stress that the proposal has enormous consequences. I am particularly concerned about how my region should be able to provide adequate services to patients in the hospitals in Kirkenes and Hammerfest. It is well known that hospitals in Finnmark use a lot of resources on their initial skills. The rationale of the management for the use of lease payments is that it is not possible to cover specialist positions that are necessary to have sound shunting. These are initial skills that would not be able to have permanent employment in Norway, as they would like to have a permanent employment in Sweden or Denmark. Finnmark is unable to train enough nurses or doctors to meet the needs of the hospital services they are set to provide. Nor are they alone in Norway. We need 10,000 people to meet the needs of the health and care sector. This is why there is a great deal of concern about the decision taken today by Stortinget. The proposal for a decision today is simply not sound and will make it difficult for health businesses to ensure the necessary personnel in Finnmark. I'm very disappointed, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1168	The representative Steinar Reiten has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1173	A few comments on previous articles: Hanne Dyveke Süttar suggests that what we are adopting today means the end of fixed-term rental. Of course that's not true. The second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act already requires a company to be bound by a collective agreement before it can be negotiated with employees in the company on fixed-term rental. In many industries and in many workplaces, such negotiations are already taking place today with the large, nationwide trade unions. To date, however, the employer has also been able to solve this problem by encouraging the employees of each enterprise to form a pro forma trade union with which a local collective bargaining agreement, known as serviette agreements, is concluded. That is what we believe to be an unfortunate far-reaching practice that should not be allowed to develop further. Thus, the Christian People's Party will not prohibit temporary hiring from temporary employment agencies, but will ensure that the legislation is complied with, and that the rental takes place in a way that provides security for both the employer and the employee. In this respect, it should not be made a problem that both fixed and hired workers are organised in large, serious trade unions. And to Margaret Hagerup and urgent decision without an investigation: this case was dealt with in the Stortinget in March. Then the majority placed a clear order. The government has chosen to ignore it and figured out what they themselves proposed a year ago. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1182	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1187	I got a question from the representative, Gülsvik. Now, the law is quite clear – and it is also clear in the proposition – that there must be predictability of when and where to work, and the amount of work, and the salary should be constant and according to the extent to which the employment rate refers. Today, twice a month is specified in the law, unless otherwise agreed. A few other comments: The representative Reiten is quite right that the need for temporary workers does not go away with this. The need for temporary workers is going to be there in the future too, people are still going to be sick, and people are still going to get pregnant. The big difference now is that the possibility of hiring the skills from recruitment agencies will be significantly reduced. For the larger enterprises, it is likely to be manageable because HR departments are available. For smaller businesses, it's going to be more difficult, which means that you might have to build up a kind of competence that you haven't prioritized in the past. Day Terje Andersen is trying to give the impression that this is a debate between those who are for and those who are against social dumping. Of course it isn't. After all, this government has just been working against labour-life crime high on our political agenda, through the establishment of work-crime centres, through the establishment of SUA offices, by increasing the penalties for crime at work, and by developing strategies and action plans with the parties. We have changed and will continue to change the confidentiality provisions in order to prevent criminality at work and have taken an international initiative. Virtually all organisations and agencies are also satisfied with the effort, in the sense that good results are also seen. I also react to the fact that the representative Lerbreck believes that society has become colder under this government. I can only remind you that unemployment has fallen. The employment rate has actually risen. We now see that the number of young people who complete and pass high school has increased, and we even see that in the case of young people who are not in work, education or school, both the number and the proportion have fallen significantly. It's not an example of a colder society, but on the contrary an example of a more inclusive society. This is not a sad day for the Right and Advance Party, as Eigil Knutsen says it is. The impact of the decisions taken here today is, of course, that of working out there, for good and for bad. It is not the Right Party and the Advance Party that bear the costs and consequences. No, it does so by the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises out there, often even in the districts, which are now facing greater challenges of bringing in labour when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1201	In the last post of the Council of State, I now note that the Council of State confirms that the definition contained in Sections 14-9 on permanent employment and predictability should also apply to predictability of salary. I expect it to be followed up, so that one makes sure that those who are permanently employed, for example, in 30 pst. the position, also has predictability in view of the payment of a fixed salary equal to 30 pst. position every month. So for repeated posts in this room that go on the need for labour in different parts of the country. Yes, of course, there is a need for access to good, competent labour throughout our long-term country. As the rapporteur has done quite well in previous posts, there is no change in the provisions relating to temporary employment in this case, nor in the first paragraph of Section 14-12, which refers to the ability of the crew companies to meet temporary needs. Of course, it is still possible to cover seasonal variations, and of course it is possible to satisfy the need for vicariate. That is not what these provisions are being proposed. What the amendments to the second paragraph of Section 14-12 on extended access to rentals are concerned is that a collective agreement with a trade union with a right of cancellation is to be concluded and that it should apply in all branches. When representatives from the government parties go up here repeatedly and problematize what the majority now wants to add, namely that this provision should apply to all industries, and say that here a problem should be created when only in the Oslo area and only applies in the construction sector, and that one closes a door, I have to ask: is it such that one closes the door for young people who want to enter the construction industry in other parts of the country, because there is a problem in the Oslo area? Indeed, it is the government's proposed parties that the tightening-up should apply to the construction industry. Is it the case that one will have a problem accessing skilled labour in the construction industry because of the tightening up that is taking place here and that the government parties want? Of course it isn't. That's what they want when you talk about giving medicine only. No, what makes sense is to vaccinate, so that one not only jumps after and runs with fire extinguisher where the problem is greatest, but to have a good and predictable framework that will apply to all industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1210	Marianne Haukland from Finnmark said that this was the result of an Oslo-centric policy. That's pretty wrong. I've been in Finnmark quite a lot, and I've been with and taken care of both Hammerfest Hospital and the Church Hospital, working to improve what is the specialist health service offer today in Alta, with regard to the ambulance flight situation. Then the representative Marianne Haukland here says that there will be a problem for Health Nord, that it is irresponsible for it has not been on the hearing. The case of temporary employment in the recruitment agencies has been under consultation. All professional organisations – the academics, YS, UNIO, LO – have gone against it. Many specialists have permanent employment abroad, in Sweden and Denmark, yes, but there is nothing to prevent them from getting part-time permanent employment in a recruitment agency working in Norway. If they do not want to or are not able to do so, the crew member may communicate the specialists to the hospitals in Health Nord. Health The North Hospitals have, like others, large human resources departments. I am quite stated when these human resources departments consider it so difficult that they cannot manage to secure their needs for specialists other than that they have to use temporary staff from the manning agencies to cover temporary jobs in hospitals. I would say that these human resources departments should tighten up and do what is their job, as it is done elsewhere in the country. As I said, the Health Committee has given the government a majority decision to follow up on these issues. Otherwise, I am grateful for the clarification by the Council of State on the question from the representative, Gülsvik, about the current salary for permanent employees with part-time jobs in temporary employment agencies. I understand that if you have a part-time job in a temporary agency, for example 30 pst., you have a basis for having 30 pst. wages and salaries per month. If you work more, you have a basis for income. If you work overtime, you have a basis for overtime income. Such clarification is an important and important premise for the future practice of manning undertakings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1221	In the eagerness to run the crew industry's errand, a lot has come strange from the right-wing parties from this pulpit. Firstly, they are trying to make the problems associated with rentals very small. They dedramatise the element of rental into the labour market in Norway. At the same time, they say that if what we adopt today is implemented, it will cause almost all of the work life to collapse because people don't get the access to rental that they feel they need. This doesn't matter, they're talking to their own rhetoric. The second is that they clearly show that they are not in contact with Norwegian working life at all. They do not see what rents do for the employment and safety of Norwegian workers — and, to a large extent, for non-residents. They do not see that there are increasing numbers of fixed-term jobs. They do not see what results from increasing insecurity for the lessees, who are afraid to make mistakes, and who are also afraid to tell us about critical conditions at work. But we see what this framework of productivity, security and stability in construction, and we fear that the same is happening in industry by industry. The right-hand side says we're printing out the wrong medicine. I would rather say that what we prescribe is a vaccine against the development of Norwegian working life that we see in more and more sectors, and as we also see internationally, where we are moving towards a labour-union society. So right representatives claim that this is forcing people to organize. That's wrong. However, if employers still want to base much of their business on rent on death and life, they only have to make sure that it is done in an orderly way with trust-chosen contracts. This is not particularly dramatic, and many of the actors you have pointed to — and as it has been problematic to the right here — are already tariffs-bound businesses or businesses, such as the United Kingdom. hospitals. We think an increased level of organisation is a good thing, unfortunately it doesn't make the right side. So it was claimed that a new tripartite collaboration has now developed, with LO, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. It didn't sound so bad to me, but I have to remind you that it is the majority of the Stortinget who are taking the steps we are taking tonight, and all the employee organisations that were present at the hearing in the committee want these steps to be taken to ensure more tidy conditions in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1234	I was not sure that Lundtigen was right that it would still be easy for the hospitals to solve their services with the changes that are now being made to the Working Environment Act. If you have to be employed in a permanent part-time job in a manning undertaking, the manning undertaking will be converted into a job instead of cultivating its role as a employment agency. It is possible to make an agreement with the trustees, but according to Sections 14 to 9, which are proposed to be adopted in this room, it is only where you have a temporary need, you are allowed to use the rental. Where an employee is unable to recruit when a regular job is published, where an attempt is made to get people to take those jobs and once again no one is employed in the jobs, this is no longer a temporary need. It is then about permanent needs that need to be resolved, and where renting is a solution to meet the need for staffing. It is such a challenge that we have in several hospitals in Finnmark, but also in municipalities where you cannot be recruited for relevant health jobs. It is possible that Finnmark does a poor job of training students and ensuring that they are able to take competent and relevant training to ensure the working life of Finnmark. It's possible we need to look at several things we can do to ensure that students at secondary school in Finnmark survive. Today it's at the base of 45 pst. existing in high school at normal times, so it will be a major challenge to ensure competence for the posts that need to be secured. One of the solutions for highly skilled jobs — as in hospitals, where specialist doctors and specialist nurses are needed — has been the use of rentals from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1243	On 24 May, in connection with Storting’s treatment of Innst. 281 S adopted as follows: ‘The government is asking for the phasing-out of the use of external rents in healthcare enterprises in parallel with the increased use of permanent temporary workers, also known as temporary work pools.’ This is at the heart of what some of the representatives have been talking about, namely that there are some people who seem to be afraid that there is a shortage of staff, among other things. in hospitals. This decision was taken a short time ago, and it is a fundamental understanding of how to hire temporary workers and how workers experience working life. For the Central Party, this is about one thing, it's about employees being mainly permanent employees. So the point is who is employed and who is the employer. Temporary employment agencies can also employ permanent staff, and if they do not, they can provide labour to, for example: a hospital, which employs temporary or permanent staff. So if the temporary employment agencies are going to hire people, it should be an employment contract that says it's going to be a permanent position. Of course, the contract – which others have had – may relate to a part-time job, but it therefore gives predictability of the employment obligation as an employee, namely a relationship to be regulated by the Employment Environment Act, the benefits to be provided to the employer, and the salary to be paid. So it's a security for the individual, and not least it's a security for families. So if the agencies don't want to hire permanent staff, they can communicate, for example. The Nordic Hospital, which some representatives have been involved in. The Nordlands Hospital can then employ these persons temporarily after the upcoming section of the Working Environment Act, § 14-9-2a-e. It's important to remember the following things: the agency has basically no other activity than renting people out. If they are given the opportunity to hire temporary workers to solve production holdings – for example: can call hospitals that, is another debate – the need for temporary workers, so they get a legal right to temporary employment that no other industry has. All trade unions have opposed this government proposal – and for good reason. When you hear that some representatives, including The representative, Süttar from the north, is concerned that temporary employment is necessary because it is not possible to get people to live in the north, it is about a comprehensive policy and a much wider issue than not having the available labour force as you want locally. Then we have to deploy broader instruments in other areas, and the Working Environment Act is part of the overall solution for a society we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1261	What the Stortinget is doing today is sending a distrust statement to a whole Norwegian business community. It is saying that we are no longer so concerned with distinguishing between serious and unprofessional actors, but that we will treat everyone as potentially unprofessional actors. It's saying that we're no longer going to tighten up where there's a problem, but treat everyone based on a hypothesis that there might be a problem sometime in the future. The proportion of annual work coming from the manning industry is between 1 and 2 pst. today. It's not a problem. The problem is linked to one specific sector: construction, mainly in Oslo and Akershus, where the rent share is approximately. 15 pst. That is why we are proposing restrictions for this particular industry. Now, when the Storting chooses to tighten for everyone, there are mainly two losers. One is serious small and medium-sized enterprises across the country that are already struggling to get ends to meet. This could be done, for example, by: are kindergartens, which now have to set up their own pool of ringers, rather than using establishments that already have that network. It will bind up unnecessary resources, and it is difficult to understand why it should be better for individuals to be on a call list than to be employed in an agency specialising in matching workers who are struggling to get a foot within the workplace with businesses that have a temporary need. Often, such a possibility leads to just a regular job. The others who lose out on this are workers who now have more difficult access to the labour market. There may be people with holes in the CV, unskilled workers, people with disabilities, people who have had drug problems or mental problems, or veterans with a CV that is difficult to translate into formal civil competence. The consequences of this can be seen quickly again in the Nav statistics. At the same time, we say to businesses that although they've followed all the rules, they've been acting seriously all year long and using the flexibility they have today, but with minimal use of rent, we're going to make it even more difficult for them when they have a temporary need. To believe that this will not have an impact on Norwegian industry and Norwegian competitiveness is at best naive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1274	The representative of Marianne Haukland made an important contribution. She said that there is a permanent need in the hospitals in Finnmark to get access to specialists and professionals. You don't get to them in the usual way. I would like to stress that I agree that this is difficult. I agree that there is a great job to be done. So what we're discussing is whether we're going to solve this issue with temporary staff in temporary staff in temporary employment agencies under the first paragraph of Section 14-12, which has a reference to temporary employment, which is anchored in the second paragraph of Section 14-9, and where this is to include a special letter g. That is what we are discussing. The option of the centre party is that we have to facilitate recruitment for, among other things. The Finnmark hospitals in a completely different way. The first is that we have to provide security for the functions of hospitals on the emergency side and on the food side. We need to strengthen hospitals with more selective treatment, so that they get more training. We need to strengthen educational opportunities for the youth of Finnmark, with pay and reduction of student loans. It offers opportunities to solve the issue in a different way, and it is the work and social committee that is involved with the Health and Welfare Committee. Finally, I would like to thank you for the support we have received from the Christian People's Party in this matter. I am very, very happy about it, and from the side of the Center Party, I would like to stress that the interaction between working life and family life is the foundation of both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. I would also like to thank you for the debate. We've come a little further into public information on the Working Environment Act. There are complicated questions, but there are important questions. Then the first commandment is that we can discuss on a professional and actual basis, and I think that the debate has largely remembered today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1285	I waited a while, because I figured maybe someone else was going to comment on what I'm going to record, but I haven't heard anyone do it. The Council of State said earlier in the debate that the Workers' Party had voted against giving some temporary employees the right to a permanent job after three years instead of four years, and that is, if I heard correctly, a claim that cannot be contradicted. I expect the Council of State will then refer to Innst. 208 L for 2014-2015. It is noted that the majority of Stortinget, following negotiations in Stortinget, proposed to change the four-year rule for temporary staff to a three-year rule for some employment basis, but not for all. Some temporary staff were required to be employed on a permanent basis after three years, others after four years. We then thought, together with the Senterpartiet and SV, that all temporary employees should have such a right after three years, firstly because it was most fair, and secondly because a different limit – three years for some and four years for others – would make it relatively easy to circumvent a three-year requirement by redefining jobs. So we did not vote against, as the Council of State referred to. We had our own proposal, and it was as follows: «The government is asking for the right to permanent employment after 3 years for all of the Work Environment Act's basis for temporary employment, which is currently covered by the four-year rule, as well as the new general access in Section 14-9(f). And that was what was voted down in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1298	I started today by saying that today we were going to hear two stories about Norwegian business – the one about using black work and not really paying their people, the other about that it was essentially a decent, good Norwegian working life – and I meant, and still believe, that both stories are equally true. The general rule in Norwegian working life is that one has a decent business life that gives decent conditions to workers, and so it should be. And then it's the exceptions that you have to fight. But are we fighting the exceptions by going after everyone? That's what we've been pointing out here today. Dag Terje Andersen assured the Council of State that all the proposals here have been discussed with the parties. That's great, but they didn't agree! It is the government’s proposal that is closest to what has been investigated and that, together with the whole of other instruments, would provide both the fight against the crime of working life, targeted directly against construction and installations in Oslo without affecting other activities, and a good, comprehensive proposal that also served the business community’s best interests. The hearing in Stortinget was based on the fact that it was only about construction. The seafood industry was not heard, the entrepreneurs were not heard, Norsk Industrie was not heard. There is talk of renting that replaces Norwegian workers, but in many cases it is the opposite – there is no Norwegian labour force to fill the jobs. For a few years back, every four persons employed in the Norwegian food industry came from abroad to work. Without them, Norwegian fish exports, our main industry, had nothing to export, and it has saved Norwegian jobs. So who has lost contact with private business and business – at least it is not Right. We are totally dependent on doctors and nurses who can actually take jobs in Norway even if they have regular work in their home country. We may believe that fixed employment should be the main rule, but the municipality of Hattfjelldal had to spend NOK 100 000 in reward to get access to Swedish nurses – if they could be there for more than one year. We are not talking about foreign labour competing with Norwegian labour, because they have no one to compete with. And that's the problem. The question is whether we get more or less nurses if they are forced to be hired permanently in a crew company, when this can lead to employment obligations in Norway at the same time as they have a regular job at home. We are not the ones who doubt this. The Christian People's Party itself has had to put forward two loose proposals, in fear that we may now throw Health Norway into a crisis. I hope not, and I don't think so either. So we could have adopted the government's proposals, which both address the business needs for flexibility, listened to the social partners and focused their efforts on precisely the problem areas in Oslo. We do not need to sacrifice a serious, organized working life or the need for flexibility. The government's proposal had taken care of both.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1313	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1318	First, a explanation of vote: we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 5 from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. It's a good proposal, which I think will show that the results are going to be very good, in terms of an increased number of fixed-term jobs. We are voting against proposal No. 6, but I really think that the proposers should consider drawing the whole proposal, because it is based on an invalid premise. No restriction on access to temporary employment is adopted in the recruitment agencies today. What the bulk of the population does is to prevent the introduction of a new provision, an exclusive right for the manning industry to hire temporarily. They do not have it today, so the premise for that proposal is invalid, and therefore someone should look into whether it should be voted on at all. But in that case, we will vote against it. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 7 from the Christian People's Party, we vote against proposal No. 8 from the Christian People's Party, we are voting against proposals 9 and 10 from the Christian People's Party, and we are voting subsidiaryly for proposal No. 11 from the Christian People's Party. About the health care concerns in dealing with this, it is the responsibility of the Council of State, and I expect signals from the Council of State that it should be handled in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1330	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1335	First, the representative Nordby Lunde and the representative Tonning Riise, who say that one here suspects serious operators in Norwegian business because one wants clear and clear rules that apply to all industries. No, we want clear rules just to let all actors know what they have to do with, and we are doing the necessary tightening. It will be a little special when the representatives Tonning Riise and Nordby Lunde are on a proposal in the Chamber today, which involves tightening up the construction industry, given that it is the biggest problem in the Oslo area, while the restrictions will apply to the whole country – to all actors, including those who may never have temporarily employed and who are on the dry side. It's important to have good and safe rules. There are very important proposals that are being adopted today, and it is important that they apply to all sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1344	This will also be a visit to the representative of Tonning Riise and to the representative of Lunde. The representative, Tonning Riise, pointed out that the proposal concerned only one industry, while the representative, Lunde, from the same party, was very concerned about talking about something other than the construction industry. This is a challenge that arises in several industries. Now let's agree on that. When you see developments that have been, and the signals you see in the horizon, this is a challenge that affects several parts of the country. It may be in some individual municipalities, it may be in some regions, and it may be in several branches. That is precisely why the majority of people today choose to be early on in vaccination – which was a word used – against the problems that can arise for the labour market when, after all, we want a whole, organized and proper working life in this country. The representative Lunde said that the municipality of Hattfjelldal had to use an extra NOK 100000 to recruit nurses. Yes, welcome after! There is nothing new for the municipality of Hattfjelldal, and there are some large municipalities both in the north and in other parts of the country doing the exact same thing. It is not unique to the municipality of Hattfjelldal. This applies to municipalities both in the Western and e.g. in the region I'm from, the Vesterål. There are some large municipalities that are not comparable in any way to the municipality of Hattfjelldal, even municipalities that have hospitals in their own municipality. Ergo is concerned with the total need for labour, not least the skills that are given to this labour force and the ability to be skilled. This will be especially true when we know that at the same time, the number of part-time nurses’ training places will be reduced. on Helgeland, the region, among others Hattfjelldal municipality is located in. Here, government parties must take a few rounds and start addressing the problems involved, namely how to ensure the relevant workforce in permanent jobs for the services they want to be equivalent throughout the country. It is not a matter of having access to temporary permanent employment in the agency to meet this. Then it will be like the representative of Haukland. One does not want this to be the final solution to a temporary need, which was probably the words used. If you have a serious permanent need to improve your skills and recruitment, you have to look at it and don't say that there is rent, temporaryity or part-time that must be the main solution to meet this challenge. Then you have to look deeper in the toolbox and see if you don't come up with better solutions, solutions that the bulk of the population today wants to find, at least on the way, and where you go for the suggestions you make.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1355	The representative Margret Hagerup has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1360	The representative of Grande spoke of an exclusive right of temporary employment. In my post, I talked about the context of the proposals that have been put in. It's tightened up into regular employment. At the same time, a temporary authorisation has been proposed which states that access to temporary employment applies to workers to be hired to fill real vicariates. In Norwegian working life, the companies themselves have a temporary need. The agencies have never had a temporary need. If a hospital or kindergarten is to have a temporary home tomorrow, a staff agency cannot call a person and ask him if he or she can come. It will have consequences. It explains a part when the representative of Grande is talking about vaccinating because of the construction industry. We think it's coercive organization, and it's not the right medicine. The degree of organisation is part of the rootstock of the Norwegian model, but it requires a job, and it requires that someone asks if they will be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1367	The representative Kristian Toning Riise has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1372	I received a specific challenge from both the representative Nordlund and the representative Gælsvik. Then I'll take it. I believe the difference between us is to what extent we take easy to make restrictions on business and the conditions more demanding for many businesses. Yes, the renting challenges are mainly related to the construction industry, and especially in the Oslo area. You could probably make a law specifically aimed at the Oslo area, but I think it would have some consequences. We have chosen to focus our efforts on where we have a problem. The reason why we don't want to target them all is that we don't take it easy, that we don't get up every day starting with making everyday life more difficult for businesses, but addresses targeted where there's a problem, when that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1381	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1386	I have to follow up on the response that I got to my challenge. It's not like someone's easy to tighten in. You do it because you think it's necessary to meet the challenges you see. It is not that this necessarily applies only to the construction industry in Oslo. That's what I've experienced myself when I've traveled around companies, that this concerns more industries, which I was in the city, and it concerns more areas than just the Oslo area. In fact, you should be in the forefront to prevent a development that you don't want. That's exactly what the majority of the population today chooses to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1391	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1407	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given by members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1418	What we are about to deal with now is a proposal to amend the Working Environment Act § 1-7, on posted employees. The proposal is to amend the current definition, which reads ‘for a limited period of time’, to ‘for a period of up to 30 days’. The majority of the Committee has rejected the proposal – it has decided to do so. I would like to make a few comments on this, because I expect the minority to come forward with their proposals and explain its position later on. As mentioned in the suspension and in the letter from the Council of State, Norwegian labour law rules apply to posted workers on missions in Norway, the Posting Directive. This Directive is incorporated into the EEA Agreement and binding on Norway. This Directive is now under review. The question of change in definition was also raised last year, and the answer is the same now as it was then: current EEA law does not open up to set a clear time limit today. Once again, the Centre Party uses any possibility in its comments to criticise Norway as part of the EEA. I expect that we will come back to that debate. They also write that ‘This is another example of Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement leading to the surrender of sovereignty in the field of work’. It's not that the argumentation and the disagreement between the blocks are based on. Nor is the disagreement about whether a posted employee is out for 30 days, three months, one year or two years. The disagreement lies in how to deal with legislative changes for the benefit of all parties. The government has replied that yes, one should return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner once the revision of the broadcasting directive has been completed. So far, we know that the process is completely in the final phase, and that the EU is going to argue about the matter this summer. In addition, it is reasonable to see this matter in the context of the Ministry’s investigation into the workers also posted to be subject to the rules of the same Alert Act. It's about doing things in the right order. It is quite natural to expect any changes to the Working Environment Act to come from the government, when all facts about EU and EEA treatment are clear. I see no reason why the Storting should be earned to deal with the same case three, four or five times in a couple of years, when it should keep to one treatment. That treatment comes, probably in the next session, because it has been notified several times by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1438	The working party is committed to ensuring safe working conditions for all those working in Norway. It is our main focus in all the issues dealt with by the Labour and Social Committee. For us, the Working Environment Act is our foremost tool to ensure a safe working life. Our aim is that it should be fully applicable to as many as possible of those carrying out work in Norway. The document 8 on posted workers addresses important issues. According to the views of the Labour Party, today’s legislation is unclear, both in terms of time and in terms of the rules to which it is subject, when. For this reason, the Labour Party and SV promote their own proposal in this case: ‘By the end of 2018, the government is asked to present a case clarifying the legislation for posted workers, including which of the provisions of the Working Environment Act may apply from the first day for posted workers.’ By a majority of this proposal, we could have a professional review of the issues, from the point of view of the Norwegian Government, and we could have taken informed decisions. This leads me to say that we in the Workers' Party are going to vote against the proposal of the Centre Party in this matter. We are concerned that the proposals could have unintended consequences, with reduced protection for some groups of the workforce. But we share to some extent the problem description of the proposers, because we believe that the rules for posted workers are not clear enough, and that we want a clearer definition of the period when you are a posted worker, and of what rights you have at what times. In working life policy, it really is that everything is related to everything. In Norway, we do not have the minimum wage, but we have, among other things, the public utility institution. The working party has submitted proposals for representatives to improve the public service regime, simplifying documentation requirements and extending the public service period. We believe that an improved system is necessary, as the level of social dumping has increased in recent years, especially in sectors with a high level of foreign labour. The size requested one year ago by the government to return to Stortinget with proposals to ensure that posted workers are covered by the alert rules of the Working Environment Act. The Workers' Party looks forward to the government's proposal to increase the alert protection for posted workers, but we believe that the government should also look into whether posted workers can be covered by other parts of the Working Environment Act. Currently, posted workers are not covered by the regulations on alerts, as mentioned, but also as regards participation, protective provisions, job protection and not least the HMS. On the other hand, the legislation on leave, working time and protection of employment is covered. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that this legislation needs a clean-up, and we encourage several parties to participate in the work. With that I have mentioned the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1460	The representative Eigil Knutsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1465	This representative proposal from the Centre Party has been made to amend the definition of ‘dispatched workers’ by amending Section 1-7 of the Working Environment Act. Today’s law defines ‘employee posted’ as: ‘employee working for a limited period in a country other than that to which the employment relates’. What we are proposing to amend in the legislative text is the wording ‘limited period’ of the wording ‘up to 30 days’, so that the whole new text becomes: «Shipped worker» means a worker working for a period of up to 30 days in a country other than that to which the employment normally relates.» The centre lot refers to the fact that posted workers are not covered by all the provisions of the Working Environment Act. Workers who have been posted are also excluded from the scope of the health and safety at work legislation. The central party believes that the definition of ‘employee posted’ by the Labour Environment Act needs to be clarified. It is not desirable to have a legal provision that allows the maximum number of workers to be defined as ‘dispatched workers’, since they are less protected under Norwegian law. We have had a number of issues in different industries lately that have made the need to set such a deadline visible. Without such a deadline, we will be in a situation where posted workers can work here for a very long time without complying with the protective provisions in force in Norway. This will also result in an imbalance between these workers and those subject to Norwegian legislation on working conditions. The centre party considers that consideration of the rights of foreign workers to be subject to the same protective provisions as other workers in Norwegian working life must prevail over any EEA law. The centre party believes that it is wrong to assume that the Posting Directive prevents a defined limit of 30 days in the Working Environment Act from being defined by law as posted workers, because it is up to the Stortingen to interpret an access for the Member States to set such an absolute limit. This will mean, in our opinion, using the space for which the EEA Agreement is possible. The central party is in complete disagreement with the government, which assumes that the broadcasting directive prevents the establishment of a limit in the Working Environment Act § 1-7, first paragraph, cf. the proposal we have put forward. The central party underlines that in this case too, it is striking how the government and the majority of the committee argue not to amend Norwegian law because it is taken into account – by the EU-positive government – that such a change in law conflicts with EU law. Finally, I would like to give an explanation of vote. The centre party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV. I would also like to address the proposal from the Senterpartiet and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1490	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1495	SV believes that anyone who does work in Norway should ensure the best possible working environment, regardless of which country you come from, or what sector you work in. The EU's broadcasting directive provides workers with rights in the host country, irrespective of the working conditions in their home country. This is important because it guarantees equal treatment for people in the same building site or data centre. The Broadcasting Directive lists the rules on working time, holidays and minimum pay – to name something. It is a good thing that posted workers have these rights in Norway, but it is a shame that their rights are restricted. Norway has no minimum wage. It is therefore important that we improve the public administration system so that everyone can secure fair pay in Norway. But even then, their rights will be restricted by the broadcasting directive. According to the first paragraph of Section 1-7 of the Working Environment Act, posted workers are defined as such as ‘working for a limited period of time in a country other than the one to which the employment relationship is normally linked’. A limited time period, it says, but either the Work Environment Act or the Broadcasting Directive says something about what a limited time period is. Are there engineers on weekly assignments, does it apply to seasonal workers working in Norway all summer, to carpenters on two-year contracts? SV does not mean that one should be able to work in Norway for two years without being covered by all protection or warning elements of the Work Environment Act, and that it is wrong that a legal entity is not an important part of the HMS Act if one works for a limited period of time in Norway. In a world where more people move, it's important to have a law that takes care of those who work in our country. Broadcasting workers fall outside the scope of the law, as they usually do not work in Norway. This means we're an artificial separation. For this reason, we ask the government to clarify the rules of the Work Environment Act that will apply from the first day for posted workers. In addition, we would like to limit how long you can work in Norway as a broadcaster, as posted workers are constantly having worse rights. After a month in Norway, we believe that one employee should be fully covered by Norwegian pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1506	There seems to be a slightly shorter debate in this matter than in the previous one. I'm not going to help make him so much longer, but just briefly do something for what the Christian People's Party group has thought about this matter. The Broadcasting Directive is currently being revised. This is a matter that the government has announced that she will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. It's also so that the same proposal to change the definition that's underlying here was made here in the hall a year ago. I think it is natural that we are now waiting for the matter that has been notified by the government, so that one can see these proposals in conjunction with the process that we are forced to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1513	The proposers are concerned that posted workers have a sound working environment and decent pay and working conditions. I agree with that, of course. On the other hand, I do not share your view that the best way to achieve this is to change the definition of posted worker in the Working Environment Act. There's several reasons for that. The definition in the Working Environment Act § 1-7 corresponds to the definition in the Broadcasting Directive, which is incorporated into the EEA Agreement and therefore incorporated into Norwegian law. It is still my opinion that we are not free to interpret a different definition of posted workers in Norwegian law, as suggested by the proposers. In principle, I do not believe that it is necessary to change the definition in Sections 1 to 7 in order to ensure that posted workers have a proper working environment and equivalent working conditions when carrying out work in Norway. There is already a significant space in the Posting Directive to have national rules ensuring the protection of posted workers, including: in the case of minimum wages, working hours and HMS. We have put this room into use, most recently in the context of the implementation of the enforcement directive in 2017. At that time, changes were made to the broadcasting regulation which both clarified and extended the catalogue of protection rules in the Working Environment Act applicable to posted workers from day one. In practice, most HMS rules are now included. In particular, the proposers point out that the warning rules must apply to posted workers. In the past, the government, as it is known, has incorporated the tenants. There are good reasons why workers also sent out should be guaranteed some form of warning protection. As I have previously briefed the Storting on, we will examine how this can be done in a good way, both in the light of EEA law and the challenges associated with, among other things. enforcement. The government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner when the matter is resolved. Both the proposers and the Committee have pointed out the need for clearer rules. A clearly defined duration of the broadcasting period will contribute to clearer and more predictable rules. This will benefit both workers, employers and supervisory authorities. That is why it is good that the European Commission has initiated amendments to the broadcasting directive that are in line with this. The change, which, according to the final decision, is adopted before the summer, means that in the case of a broadcast of more than 12 months, or in exceptional cases 18 months, the rules of labour law of all the host Member State shall apply. Rules on job protection and non-competition are excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1530	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1536	On the part of the rapporteur, a comment was made that the Centre Party uses almost every opportunity to criticise Norway as part of the EEA Agreement. What the Central Party is doing is that we point out concrete consequences of the EEA Agreement, that we are subject to a system of free movement of goods, services, capital and labour, and what kind of consequences it has had, not least for Norwegian labour. We see this clearly in many things that Stortinget has to deal with. But in this case, it is the Center Party that is involved in showing that Norway has a room for action. We point out in our remarks that Norway has a room for action to define a clear limit on how long posted workers may be here before they are subject to national rules. So it's the majority of the Storting that says that the EEA Agreement here gives restrictions that make it impossible for one to go in and support the proposal of the Centre Party. It is incredibly important that a company provides clear and clear rules that businesses can deal with, but also that employees know what rules they have to deal with and can use the rights that they have. Tekna has shown, in her consultation engagement, that Indian engineers in several major Norwegian companies have been hired for a long time, and points to concrete examples from Norwegian working life of why there is a need for clear rules, but also for tightening up the rules that you have. While it is important to have a clear threshold that provides for predictability and a level playing field for businesses, it is also important for workers to have rules that ensure that a person knows what he is dealing with, which ensures that the general provisions of the Working Environment Act, both related to HMS and to alerts, can be applied as quickly as possible. I think it's a pity that the majority isn't on the proposal that the Central Party has promoted, but we're going to work on this to get it through the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1547	Although I am a hot follower of the EEA Agreement, the Labour Party's position on this matter is not about it, and I believe the previous case The Stortinget discussed for a few hours, shows that Norway has a large working life policy room to regulate working life for the best of the workers. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we do not vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party, because we are concerned about the consequences. We have an offensive approach and want to look at several provisions that can take effect from the first day workers carry out work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1552	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1568	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1577	The issue to be addressed is a proposal from the representative not to grant extraction permits in particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. In the case, the proposers come with a prayer to the government to draw up a new regulation in the Petroleum Act which states that in particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, natural values must weigh more than oil and gas activities. They also propose to withdraw the allocation of two blocks granted in the 2017 TFO. Norwegian sea areas shall be managed in a holistic ecosystem-based perspective. It is in line with today's management plan system and essential for maintaining clean and healthy seas. The size has decided, through previous treatment of grossing-up notifications, how to balance natural values against oil and gas activities. Particularly valuable and vulnerable areas do not have direct effects in the form of restrictions on activity, but signal the importance of showing particular care in these areas. The purpose of the conditions is to reduce the risk of damage to the environment during possible gything or gything, which also leads to seismic and seismic studies, and to the establishment of time limits for exploration in oil-bearing layers in some areas of Norwegian base. It is important that the further work on the marine protection plan maintains and maintains the function of the most important and most vulnerable and valuable natural areas throughout the Norwegian economic zone, in line with the Aichi objectives that we have previously addressed. The concrete blocks mentioned in the draft representative have been discussed by Stortinget in the context of the update of the regional management plan. These concrete blocks have already been allocated and made available for nomination — and according to the Petroleum Act § 10-13, which regulates the withdrawal of an authorisation, it is good to remember that strict conditions are imposed for withdrawal. We believe that predictability and fact-based assessments are important in regulating businesses, which is an important competitive advantage for Norwegian Socket, and we believe that there is no reason to withdraw these permits, based on what is in the proposal in the case. As the rapporteur, I recommend the recommendation of the majority – and the majority are the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Left. We recommend that the proposal not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1590	Oil and gas industries have been operating in the Norwegian economy for the last ten years. Also in the years to come, this industry will play an important role and will be involved in ensuring well-being and, in particular, in financing the Norwegian welfare community, but will also form the technological and economic foundation for bringing us into the renewable society. The government will pursue a stable and long-term petroleum policy and its management policy will contribute to this. Norwegian gas will be part of the solution in the short and medium term when coal is phased out into European energy production and will contribute to the transition to a renewable low-carbon society in Europe. In deciding whether new expansions of oil and gas fields will incorporate the climate risk into the basis. The government will follow up its advice and assessments from the climate risk selection. It is in Norway's long tradition that our most important marine industries can develop side by side and last in our marine environment. The management plans for the various sea areas ensure that different considerations are assessed against each other. The administration will continue today's system of regular updates and revisions of the management plans. This government, therefore, wants to pursue a prudent food and petroleum policy. This is a decisive feature in the regulation of the policy area and a competitive advantage for Norwegian Socket. For several decades, Norway has been persevering in its policies and has had a fact-based approach. The adoption of proposals presented in a Document 8 proposal, after a simple committee procedure, would violate such a principle. It can also be easy for the government in its policy, among other things. will follow-up of the climate risk selection process and set out the requirements for the companies to face climate risks in their development plans. One will further impose stringent environmental requirements on Norwegian oil production, one will impose stringent climate requirements for the Norwegian base production phase, including requirements for the best available technology, and will facilitate the Norwegian petroleum industry’s future leadership in health, environment and safety. Right is pleased that we have a broad and good foundation in Stortinget which is clear that good framework conditions are a means of dealing with this issue. Some others would give a very unfortunate signal in a market with which we want to play on teams, and which through thorough and democratic processes has followed Storting's rules of play as to how to proceed for the allocation of blocks on Norwegian pedestal. Right hopes that this big one will continue like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1607	In the management of petroleum policy in Norway, consideration of the external environment and other industries has always been a priority throughout all phases of activity, from the opening of new areas and the granting of permits for the implementation of exploration, development, operation and closure of fields. This has been the case, and in the light of this case, there is a broad political consensus on that policy. Norwegian petroleum policy is firm, and I am delighted. Today, we have legislation that increases the requirement of soundness when operations take place in areas which are subject to stricter requirements. No petroleum activity is carried out on a Norwegian base without being capable of being carried out properly. In the management plans for marine areas, areas are particularly valuable and vulnerable. These are areas that have a significant impact on biodiversity and include, inter alia: spawning areas for fish, major areas of life for seabirds or coral areas. These areas have no direct values that restrict activity but signal the importance of being careful. Thus, it is not possible to carry out petroleum activity, shipping or fishing activities in these areas, which are defined as particularly vulnerable and valuable. This shall be achieved by finding reliable and cost-effective instruments, which both preserve the environmental values and provide a basis for economic activity. There are producing fields in such areas today without any degradation of environmental values due to this land. There will be risks associated with any activity and the petroleum sector is no exception. However, there have been very few discharges of crude oil on Norwegian soil for 50 years, nor has there been any evidence of damage to the marine environment as a result of these emissions. This is because we have an industry that has a high level of safety and that is constantly working to reduce the risk of emissions. In regions with vulnerable natural values, oil protection measures are required which will reduce the impact of any release. There are also time limits on exploration to minimise the risk of damage during periods where natural resources may be particularly vulnerable. With regard to the proposal to withdraw also extraction permits granted in a fully ordinary manner and with conditions to take account of the external environment, it is time to recall the importance of predictability and evidence-based assessments in such awards. These blocks are located in an area opened by the Size of Petroleum Activities in 1985 and have been available for nomination and allocation since then. These allocations have been made following comprehensive and thorough assessments. Strict requirements are imposed for the withdrawal of such authorisations and serious and repeated infringements of the legislation are required. There is no such breach and there is no reason for revocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1626	Norwegian oil and petroleum industries must be seen in a historical light. Since the beginning – at the end of the 1960s – we have acquired good competence and today we have one of the safest and purest ways to extract oil and gas. In addition, we have a lot of experience, where industries have combined – where we have harvested marine resources on the one hand and taken up oil and gas resources on the other. This combination has been shown to be sustainable. At the same time, the lot of the centre is clear that the petroleum industry must also have strict environmental requirements. It is the environment that must come first. However, it shall be possible to combine. The centre party is concerned with predictability, as has been said before in this case. In this case, the extraction permits have been granted. they are granted on the basis of normal conditions but with strict conditions relating to environmental and sustainability considerations; The centre party therefore believes it is completely wrong to revoke these terms in a Document 8 proposal. We therefore support the matter as it is: we do not want to reverse it. I repeat that the Norwegian petroleum industry is among the purest, it is among the safest, and it is subject to some of the most stringent requirements in the world. We are confident that this is being done in a good and proper way. But as has also been said in this case: 100 pst. You will never have a warranty. With the assumptions we have for the Norwegian petroleum industry, we believe that this is within a good, safe and sound framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1637	The current government has made itself historic – historically by not listening to one of the environmental advice against oil drilling in vulnerable sea areas. Prior to all calls on the Norwegian base, the government obtains advice from the Environment Directorate, the Marine Research Institute, the Norwegian Polar Institute and others. One would think that one was interested in listening when asking for advice, at least in between – but no. There are two different concession rounds on the base. It is the ordinary concession rounds, and it is the so-called TFO rounds — allocation in predefined areas. In the TFO allocation earlier this year, consideration was not given to vulnerable environmental values and large incidences of hedged and overwintering seabirds and marine mammals, as well as important spawning and breeding areas for fish were important enough for the government. Two blocks near the coast of Trøndelag, one as close as 10 km from land, were assigned, contrary to the environmental advice of the government's own experts. In the 2016 TFO allocation it was hysa's spawning ground in the Barents Sea that was not important enough for the government. The areas were allocated, contrary to the environmental advice of the government's own experts. During the 23rd concession round, the proximity to the ice edge was not important enough for the government to prevent the oil industry from slipping. The areas were allocated, contrary to the environmental advice of the government's own experts. What we are witnessing is a systematic overrun of fisheries, vulnerable seabird populations, the proximity of coral reefs and other natural values. They ask for advice, but they totally ignore it. That is why the proposal of the Christian People's Party, which we are discussing today, is so important. It is a matter of at least protecting some of the most vulnerable areas along our coast from oil activities. With today's government, it's silent and running. It will be exciting to see whether this trend is consistent even when the 24th concession round is to be awarded. Will the government then listen to some of the environmental advice, or will they continue as before – and overrun all? I take it up with me the proposals SV are on, and I want to add that there are some of the initial comments from the committee that SV should not have been part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1648	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1653	Norwegian sea areas must be managed in a holistic, ecosystem-based perspective. It is in line with today's management system and decision-making to maintain clean and healthy seas. In such an administration, it is essential that areas that are defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable due to nature conservation values should be strictly managed in accordance with the precautionary principle. The Christian People's Party believes that environmental advice in the SVO area must be a leading force, and that none of the SVO areas must be opened up to petroleum activity. Most allocations of oil blocks in SVO areas have been made in breach of the environmental disciplines requested by the authorities that have opened them. In fact, it may seem that there is almost a fully implemented trend, which has increasingly been on the verge of the intentions of the management plan system to preserve the ecological functions of the seas and natural disasters. According to the Christian People's Party's view, it is also necessary to withdraw the assigned blocks 6307/5 and 6307/2. These marine areas are among the most coastal areas that have been declared, and there are important areas for fish in both spawning and growing up areas. Petroleum activity in these areas was lit up in contravention of environmental advice. Petroleum Law § 10-13, which regulates recall by an extraction right, opens to be able to do so. I mean the conditions here are met by one who can show that environmental professional advice has been systematically ignored in advertised SVO blocks – that they have been systematically tested. It was done on the wrong basis. Norway is internationally obliged to establish a Marine Protection Area in 10 pst. of the sea areas of the Norwegian Economic Zone. We need to take some action if we're going to be able to achieve this goal with the current trend. Marine protection plan work must last and maintain the function of the most important, most vulnerable and valuable natural areas in the entire Norwegian economic zone, in line with the Aichi target. More and more petroleum licences are being issued in SVO areas, including areas that are also on the list of candidates for marine protection. The 36 different candidate areas that were mapped for marine protection in 2004 must be established as marine protection areas through the plans of the government now providing marine protection areas and must be protected from petroleum activity when provided with environmental advice. I found it disappointing that no more parties see the need to protect some of our most vulnerable sea areas. We have a compromise in Norwegian petroleum industry – one must be of different importance to each other. One of them is the concern of fish and the natural resources that we are obliged to pass on to the next generation. This will not be easier at a time when the pressure on the Norwegian socket will only get stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1666	When the red-green government in its time set record after record in allowables and oil investments, we thought it was completely impossible to conduct an even more expansive and fossil-servile policy. But after the blue-blue take over, the knit is even longer – at least when it comes to overcoming environmental advice. Under the leadership of Erna Solberg, consideration for the vulnerable areas has been systematically ignored. Skills, precautionary principles and general conservative prudence are ignored in order to release the oil companies. During the period from 2013 to 2017, the government of Solberg has broken all of them, 33 out of 33, the Environment Council, shows a review in a 2017 report. As late as January this year, just two days after the Left joined the government, the state council gave Terje Søvik's extraction permits in vulnerable areas down to 10 km from land, just outside Smøla, Hitra and Frøya. This is thoughtless gambling with marine and renewable resources with fish stocks that have created work for centuries, have shaped local and national culture, and are important for future food security. And the risk is real. As the proposers write, the large herring population of the Prince Williams Sound in Alaska has not yet returned after the Exxon Valdez accident in 1989. It is no wonder that the proposers from the Christian People's Party are strongly responding to the practices that have evolved for oil drilling in vulnerable areas, and the Christian People's Party deserves a lot of praise here today to raise several important proposals, which unfortunately seem to be downplayed. However, we would encourage the Christian People's Party to go a step further next time, because as a tilting party they have a unique opportunity to negotiate a reform of Norwegian environmental and petroleum policies. But then they have to put power behind the requirements, and they have to be willing to negotiate with both sides. Unfortunately, we have not seen that will from the Christian People's Party so far in the period. In fact, we haven't seen it properly since 2001, although climate and environment are still the most important thing of our time. Finally, I see that the Green Party in the committee's position is in a few unfortunate initial formulations on economic petroleum activity in the SVO area, which we do not agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1678	As several speakers have pointed out, the Norwegian petroleum management regime has gradually evolved over more than 50 years with oil and gas activity on a Norwegian base. It has served us well, the administrative regime we have developed. On the one hand, we are able to provide environmental and natural values, on the other hand, we are able to create economic activity. The Norwegian administrative regime is well recognised internationally. As the representative of Halleland was present, no petroleum activity on a Norwegian base is carried out unless it can be carried out in a proper manner, and all activities, including exploration, expansion, operation and closure, are subject to approval or authorisation by the authority. The consideration of environmental values in the particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, the so-called SVOs, can best be achieved by finding reliable and cost-effective instruments that both take into account environmental and natural values and provide the basis for economic activity. We have good experience finding such balanced instruments. As the rapporteur pointed out, the status of a particularly valuable and vulnerable area does not give rise to direct effects in terms of restrictions on activity, but it signals the importance of showing particular care in these areas. It is the established policy we have, and it is a good administrative approach. In order to protect valuable and vulnerable environmental values, the legislation in force can impose specific requirements on a given activity, such as: limitations related to drilling in oil-bearing layers or seismic shooting during periods where, for example: fish stocks or seabirds are particularly vulnerable. In the case of the two concrete blocks included in the proposal for a representative related to the allocation in TFO 2017, the size of petroleum activities in this area opened in 1985. The blocks have been available for nomination and allocation since then, and a framework has been established for the petroleum activity in this area, including limitations on exploration in oil leading layers. The size covered the framework for the petroleum activities in this specific area last time in 2017, through the examination of the management plan for the Norwegian Sea. The framework for petroleum activities, in the 2009 previous management plan, was then continued. It is also being complied with by the government. It is therefore not the case that the government has opened up new SVOs for petroleum activities, as the representatives write in the original representative proposal. As is known for this hall, the Stortinget opens up new areas for petroleum activities on a Norwegian base. There is also reason to stress that an important feature of the regulation of the petroleum activity on Norwegian base and an important competitive advantage for Norwegian base have been predictability and fact-based assessments. The authorities regulate the sector by setting a clear and predictable framework, and when one with this proposal tries to create uncertainty by suddenly proposing to withdraw previously granted authorisations gives a very unfortunate signal to the industry. It is therefore positive that a large majority of the vote supports the long-term, fact-based and, in particular, predictable petroleum policy established for Norwegian cap. I would like to distance myself from not listening to environmental advice. On the part of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, we work on the concession rounds in several phases and have consultations and, of course, professional assessments for all reasons – both environmental and resource management considerations – in order to be able to retrieve the values on Norwegian pedestal. These shall be weighed against each other, and it is ultimately the government that does, through the annual TFO rounds and the numbered concession rounds on the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1704	We hear that the Council of State is not taking away the fact that he has not listened to environmental advice. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what areas of Norwegian soil has he said no to oil drilling through the concession rounds as a result of the environmental advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1709	Let me stress that we have different phases of administration treatments related to petroleum activities on Norwegian base. When we are in the processes of a concrete concession round, it deals with the areas formally open to petroleum activities of Storting through previous opening decisions. Then there are consultation rounds in which we ask whether new facts have come to light to change what is included in the management plan for the original area. It is therefore during the examination of the management plan for Norwegian pedestal that the large, wide-ranging assessments of whether it is advisable to have a petroleum activity in an area or one are taken. Then, in the concession rounds – TFO annually and the numbered rounds – there is an update to make sure that we have all the new knowledge available when we actually go to the step of awarding a concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1716	Then I would like to remind the Council of State that there has been, through the subsequent consultation rounds, a number of new information. Both the Environment Directorate, the Marine Research Institute, the Norwegian Polar Institute and others have found reasons to strongly warn against oil drilling in these areas. I want to refer from the Jeleya platform. It says the following: «In granting extraction permits during the ongoing 24th concession round, focus on environmental professional advice in or near particularly valuable areas [[SVO]] The question is: is the government going to follow some of the environmental warnings against oil drilling in vulnerable sea areas when the 24th concession round is being awarded?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1728	Let me first point out that yes, that's right, we get a number of hearing opinions related to the different concession rounds, which are referred to here, including environmental advice. Then there is a process of government between the various departments concerned, mainly between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Finally, the government in plenary decides on the extraction permits to be granted, where an overall assessment of the inputs received is taken and balanced. As I said, we have a number of measures that can be put in place that are targeted and cost-effective when it comes to delivering environmental and natural values in specific areas, and it needs to be assessed for each specific area. As far as the 24th concession round is concerned, we are now in the interview for the treatment of it. Of course, we are now considering the recordings that have been made during the consultation round, and the leaders that the Jeleya platform provides. We will come back with the allocation before the summer, that's at least what's planned, and then the Haltbrecken will come back and see what's there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1735	The Council of State states that overall assessments are carried out between, inter alia: The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Why, then, is it that we never land on the environmental side, on the nature side, through the overall assessments made by the government, but each time the environmental warnings against oil drilling in vulnerable areas are ignored?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1740	The premise in Haltbreken's question is not correct. Environmental advice is taken into account. This is done by examining the management plans, where it has been said that there are parts of Norwegian cap that should not be open to petroleum activity. Where petroleum activities are formally opened up, specific measures – targeted, concrete and cost-effective – are included for each area, to ensure that we maintain environmental and natural values while at the same time creating economic activity that serves the Norwegian community well. We have a lot of income from this. We are concerned that we should have sustainable management of our marine areas. It applies in the field of oil and gas, in the field of aquaculture, in the field of fisheries, and it will apply to marine minerals as a result. We simply have to have sustainable management, and then it is not unilaterally one reason to take care of, that is the balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1747	When the government receives advice, the two main types of advice are provided by the environmental professional bodies. One type is that the Environment Directorate or others say that oil can be accepted under given conditions, with drilling time limitations, etc. The second kind of advice you get is clear warnings about oil drilling no matter what environmental requirements you set, because you see that you can't be sure enough about the dangers that arise. Then I have to repeat my question: why is it that nature loses time and again in the overall assessments, as the Council of State says, when assessing the environmental advice on saying no to oil activities in vulnerable areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1752	The President has to apologize to me, for I have to go back to my first answer and stress that there is a framework in the management plans for which areas might be involved for petroleum activity on Norwegian base. Once oil and gas operations have been formally opened up in an area, there is new professional knowledge to be gained in the consultation rounds – as the representative Haltbrecken refers to now in the context of the concession rounds. It is the assessment of whether there is really new technical knowledge or not, which is essential for saying yes or no to a specific extraction permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1757	A small review of the statistics is often useful. The Bondevik II government, from 2002 to 2005, broke down the environmental professional council 71 pst. 46 out of 65. The government of Stoltenberg, the red-green ones from 2006 to 2013, broke 80 pst. of the Environmental Councils, 189 of 237. At the top of the pallet is the government of Solberg, which has broken all the environmental councils from 2013 to 2017. 33 out of 33. My question to the Søviknes State Council is: Do you plan to go into the history with 100 pst. hits, zero environmental advice, in your time as state council?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1765	The President must remember that the speech must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1770	Now I am not going to benefit from either the percentage of the representative Stoknes for statistics or from comparable environmental advice that is summed up in these statistics. What we're concerned about from the government is that we both have to take care of environmental and natural values and facilitate economic activity. I am proud that, as government, we are committed to economic development. Taking advantage of the natural resources we have in Norway, not least in our marine areas – related to oil and gas, fisheries and aquaculture, and to marine mineral resources in the future, which I was in place – is an important perspective for government. But it has to be done in a sustainable way, where at the same time we are taking care of what we are going to leave to future generations, namely clean seas in a good condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1777	I notice that the Council of State Søviknes again undermines knowledge and expounds statistics that do not match his own position – a general contempt for knowledge, as we have seen repeatedly. But the Council of State is in government with the Right, and the Party Right calls itself a knowledge party. In that case, it is quite surprising that the party does not consistently follow and support environmental recommendations. So my question to the Søviknes State Council is: Is that so that the Right is also involved in this complete overrun of 100 pst. of the environmental advice, or does the Right have a different opinion from the Progress Party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1784	The President would like to remind you that the representative may be able to find better words than ‘disdain for’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1789	First, I would like to stress that what I have now stood here and defended is Norwegian petroleum policy, which has been long-term and predictable. It has been largely unchanged, regardless of whether we have had a government from the left-hand side or from the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. There is some of the quality of the Norwegian administrative regime. It's been sustainable. We have been shown 50 years of oil and gas activities on Norwegian base. It's not that you show contempt for knowledge here. What I'm defending is a fact-based oil and gas management regime, in line with the fact that we have fact-based management regimes for other natural resources, which we have been good at caring for in Norway. That is why we are also well recognised internationally for our administrative practices. When it comes to the difference between the parties: No, this is a government that stands for a policy, and there is a government that decides on the concessions given in any concession round, both the annual TFOs and the numbered rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1796	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1803	In the debate, the Committee may appear to be very black and white-oriented. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to say that I feel that the entire committee is interested in both taking care of nature and at the same time contributing to economic growth, and that we are going to do oil business, but do it properly. Predictability, soundness and totality are the three most important aspects of this, but it's clear that here you can drag things right to the side you want. At least I can say that the technical advice that lies there should be included and discussed when we are going to have the overall protection plan in 2020. The same committee is still elected at Stortinget. I also think it is important to see that it is not that if you do not agree with the proposals made by the proposers, you do not have an interest in that. Yes, you do, but you want to have a proper, predictable race for it, take responsibility for it, and maybe not very much jump and jump. I think the most important thing is that we give predictability to those who are actors and who are actually going to deal with it, but we're going to be involved in the tight framework conditions for that type of operation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1808	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1824	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1833	I would like to start by thanking an overall committee for constructive and good cooperation on the issue of drawing up detailed legislation on opening and awarding sea wind concessions. It is gratifying to note that there is a broad consensus on sea wind investment as part of achieving climate objectives and limiting global warming. It should be lacking, as the case is one with many positive ring-effects – whether it is the production of clean energy and the achievement of climate objectives or the employment, value creation and, more importantly, technological development. As we know, Norway is well-established with clean energy in hydropower, and has isolated initially no need for more clean energy. However, sea wind investment is important, for the world needs more renewable energy. With its climate, technology environments and large seas, Norway has good conditions to sit in the driver’s seat for sea winds. In recent years, costs have also fallen, and sea winds have a high potential for nutrient development and for greening industry. We have just talked about the petroleum industry, and the experience of the Norwegian industry in offshore oil production is an advantage with solid competence in deep water and marine structures. It can now be used to develop an entirely new Norwegian export industry. The industry is impatient drivers in this matter. They depend on predictability, as we also talked about in the previous case, and clear frameworks to work within. Today's decision will give them these frameworks and thus green light for investment, and it will give industry the predictability needed for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1844	There is a great deal of consensus in Stortinget about the desire to bet on sea wind – there is no doubt about it. In 2015, an overall increase in the government asked for a strategy for sea wind in the context of the Energy Communication. In 2018 the response came from the government, and there are good plans there, but at the same time there are also details that need to be put in place to get more speed on this. That is why we see that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party on the Stortinget in the Committee are interested in taking this forward, and ask the government to draw up a detailed regulation on the opening and awarding of concessions for sea wind on a Norwegian base. So there's a lot of agreement about this, and I think it's as much agreement that we're impatient, as we agree on the matter itself. Here it's really about speeding up. We therefore support both proposals, because we now want action, but also a good basis of knowledge to move forward in this work. We have seen that there have been actors who have done an incredibly good job already. Not least, the impressive thing Equinor has done in relation to the Hywind bet in Scotland. And we have supplier industry, maritime nutrition, etc. That can be involved and really pull the load here. But then there is a need for safe and proper framework conditions, and there is a need for an instrument that is involved and contributes. It is not very easy to manage without subsidies in this area yet, but also I think we will help to improve in the future. Then we have one thing in the Stortinget about Johan Castberg these days, which we're going to debate next week. Also, it's important for us to point out that there may be interesting things related to sea wind in that field. Although it may be difficult at first, a lot is happening in both technology and economics in this field. Within a few years, there may be many more opportunities for the use of sea winds associated with that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1855	Sea wind can become a new, big industrial venture for Norway. The government party has also said in the Jeløya platform that one will further develop the strategy for liquid wind power, and therefore the government party together with MDG has now taken the initiative of this Document 8 proposal to precisely focus on the potential that lies here. We've already seen it with self-esteem: Equinor's Hywind project, which a few months ago was dropped off in the field from an industrial cluster on Stord, was really a great sight. This is what we want to see more of. We know that the industry is working on these possibilities and is looking for the best way to move forward in order to get to a commercialization. Our supplier industry sees the potential to use the expertise acquired over decades with oil and gas business. Marine winds, by their very nature, have technological similarities to offshore, oil and gas installations, and are therefore of great interest to our supplier industry, which is a parallel business area to the oil and gas industries. One is clear that competence is relatively easy to combine between the two business lines. And the marine wind projects are very similar in design, size and complexity to our supplier industry today, and how it operates in the world class. Norway, with its natural resources, with coastline, sea area and resource availability, has a large potential for the development of offshore wind power. Let's do the same way that we took ownership of the underwater resources, now take ownership of what's happening over the ocean surface. Norwegian industry has extensive experience within international operations and deliveries on which we can now build. This area can be part of Norway’s response to additional renewable energy efforts, while it can help to build up under the competences of our oil and gas industries. Industry welcomes such a bet. The right was certainly never in doubt that support would be provided, and is pleased that it has been approved by a consensual committee. We look forward to accepting the work of the government, and have already learned that industry sees the potential of this initiative. We're looking forward to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1874	Today we are dealing with one thing with a slightly unusual rainbow constellation, by the Right, Left, the Environment Party of the Greens and the Advance Party. But the rainbow won't be complete until both the yellow and the red come in, so I'm glad that there are several political parties that agree that floating sea winds are something that needs to be invested in. There's something we're going to bet on, but that doesn't mean we're going to have a patchwork of floating windmills in the archipelago to produce animal power in Norway. It's because we need a test and demonstration facility for Norwegian operators to be able to sell the concept elsewhere in the world. Europe, among other things, is a great deal of sea wind. By 2016, there were 84 parks in 11 different countries, and both production and investment are increasing. Therefore, it is important that Norway is early on track and establishes a test and demo area. It is said that the green shift will make the oil industry obsolete in a few years. I don't think that's true, and there's nothing to suggest. But that we need more legs to stand on, I agree. If this is one of the things that Norwegian industry can export – mount in Norway and set up in Europe – because we have the expertise and business that can, precisely because of oil and gas, there may be a new, Norwegian, environmentally friendly industry, as well as the strong engine like oil and gas. I am pleased that we have a forward-looking government with the State Council of Søviknes that will increase the investment in sea wind, so that the Council of State has stated on several occasions that he will facilitate demonstration projects for floating sea winds, among others. the use of Enova’s instrumentation and its strengthening in the State budget last year. I have also stated on several occasions that it does not matter to the climate if the climate is coming in Stavanger or Shanghai. If this can be a good case for climate change abroad, it is also a good case for Norway. Finally, I can reassure both the Green Party's voters and the electorate of the Progress Party that it is probably among the exceptions that there are joint proposals. By taking a quick look at holddeord.no, we see that the Green Party and the Progress Party are equal in only 23 pst. of the cases. However, in an important case like this, which can both help Norwegian business in Norway and contribute to international climate change, cross-political consensus can be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1889	Although countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom are approaching commercial expansions of bottom-sea wind turbines, the international road is somewhat longer for the commercial operation of floating sea winds. This is an exciting area for Norway. The initiative can further develop climate technology and competence in the Norwegian energy sector and the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. It is important that such a commitment is implemented at the same time as maintaining the profitability of the renewable and largely public owned power industry in Norway. What is now needed in the first instance are concrete instruments that implement demonstration projects for liquid sea winds in Norway. In its 2018 alternative state budget, SV proposed that funding be allocated to start-up aid for a demonstration park for sea wind, where different concepts were to be tested, and a commitment authorisation of 500 million. kr for the same purpose. Creating a demonstration park where different concepts of sea wind are being tested is essential to reduce costs, which in turn will be important in order to compete internationally, where the largest market is. The construction of a full-scale marine wind demonstration plant, where different technologies are being tested, must be done before considering extensive concession awards for full-scale development, but in the long term the aim must be to build a full-scale sea wind farm. With that, I take up the proposal that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1898	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1903	The first Hywind pilot windmill was installed and operated 10 km southwest of Karmøy nine years ago, a windy, cool harvest day in 2009. The wind turbine was the world's first megawatt-class floating wind turbine. The leaves rotated – the pilots worked. Then it was done well with the Marine Energy Act. But then a lot went on – perhaps because of the 2011–2014 oil boom, then because of the oil price drop and perhaps because of the then Statoil Chief Helge Lund's strategy – but in any case we got Hywind Scotland installed and operated last year, 2017. Since 2001, offshore wind has occasionally been lifted as a possible Norwegian parade, but it has never taken off. One reason is simply that Norway does not need as costly renewable energy as offshore wind has so far represented. Cheaper alternatives have been found. But precisely in these days there is a great upheaval in the cost picture. Last Wednesday, offshore wind was one of the main themes of the Research Council conference in Oslo. Then Equinors Henriette Undrum, according to Anders Bjartnes’ report, said that «renewable energy will take oil and gas shares», and Equinor would rather eat himself than be eaten by others. 'The alternative is not that things are going to be like before, but that there's someone coming to eat you!' It's a forward-looking attitude. Now that Equinor at this conference drew a picture of a sea wind industry in which the energy cost up to 2030 can be brought down to EUR 40–60 per MWh, i.e. lower than for coal and gas, we politicians have to take it on board – not because offshore wind needs to provide so much electricity to the Norwegian market, but because support for the industrialisation of technology can provide a boost to a new industry that can prove crucial to decarbonise power generation in both Europe and other parts of the world, and represents a great potential for value creation. In order to maintain the Paris Agreement, Europe will need a fully decarbonised electricity system by 2045. European analysts have estimated that around 230 GW are needed in the coastal areas of northern Europe. It's 8,000 times the capacity we have in Hywind Scotland, so now the moment has come to capture this co-wind for the future. That is why I am very grateful and happy for a very good cooperation with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left in this matter, and for the fact that this goes against unanimity in today's decision. Thanks to the representatives of Gisle Meininger Saudland, Lene Westgaard-Halle and Ketil Kjenseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1912	It is almost touching that, in the field of oil and energy – now on the energy side – we can sometimes stand together, cross-politically, in the future, in the belief that offshore wind can become a very large area for Norwegian business, although, as was said, we do not currently need renewable energy production from offshore wind, because we have both hydropower and a very large share of wind power on land. We agree on this. So last year, on the part of the government, we put forward a sea wind strategy in which we were clear on the industrialisation potential. The Norwegian supplier industry was in focus, and we said that we should open one to two areas on Norwegian sea wind base. We have a competence base in our offshore business related to both the maritime sector and the petroleum industry, which means that in a global market we have some advantages in participating in the further development of offshore wind. It offers exciting opportunities, which are now to be further developed. So I'd like to say a few words about the administrative regime, which is addressed in this matter. The opening of areas under the Sea Energy Act means that applications for concession will be made. Therefore, when new areas are to be opened, there is a need for a regulation that deepens and complements the Sea Energy Act itself. We have therefore started work in the Department on regulations for the Law on Marine Energy. a larger recording meeting on 20 June, as part of both the regulation and the opening of the specific areas on the base that we are now considering. I would like to underline something that may have come out a little crooked in the setting. It is such that the Sea Energy Act requires the opening of areas by Royal Resolution. This framework is already in place. The regulation will not specifically regulate opening or granting concessions, but will lay down legislation for the concession process itself – documentation requirements, etc. – corresponding to what we, for example: has in the petroleum field. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has also received an assessment from the NVE that specifically addresses the areas in which we are now to open up marine wind farms or demonstration parks — pilot projects that have been mentioned. We are now completing this work and considering which specific areas to open. Finally, around the administrative regime, I would also like to stress that it is already possible to apply for a concession for demonstration projects under the Marine Energy Act. It would also be possible to apply for this specifically against oil installations, if it was appropriate to draw energy from liquid sea winds up against oil installations. As I said, we don't have a regulation in place yet, but we probably would have dealt with such applications anyway, because it's forward-looking. Finally, a little about the status per day. I will not underestimate that we already have a supplier industry in Norway that is targeting this market. In 2016, Norwegian companies traded for approx. 7 B.C.E. kr related to offshore wind. It's positive. I worked closely with Norwegian Energy Partners to see how we can further set up Norwegian business to participate in this growing market. We will soon launch a new analysis, where we will look at trends in the international maritime wind market, and identify how other countries are working with their industrial development in this sector. In the case of liquid sea winds, reference has already been made to the Equinor Hywind project. I was there and opened the plant outside Scotland. It is a very exciting project, where you can also see that you can reduce costs – just as you have reduced costs in the bottom-of-the-world wind. It offers completely new opportunities internationally, because we have a number of countries – both the United States, Japan and some island states that do not have shallow coastal areas – that are suitable for deep-sea winds. Of the offshore wind resources, 70-80 pst. used on deeper seabeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1939	International studies show that up to one third of the costs of marine wind projects will have significant, significant synergies with the value chain of the oil and gas supply industry. My question to the Council of State is about integrating some of the liquid turbines with electrification of offshore oil and gas installations. Is this something the Council of State will take the initiative to look at — how to get, so to speak, the best of two worlds integrated, as so much of the value chain is already overlapping?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1944	With regard to the management of Norwegian oil and gas, it's okay that we have a little different roles. The authorities are setting the framework, and then we're so lucky that we have big, heavy business actors working on the specific individual projects. It is not necessary for the Council of State to take any additional initiative in this field, because oil companies already see that there is an opportunity. They have several individual projects to assess, including on a Norwegian base, in the context of new developments, but also consider whether sea wind can be absorbed – at least in part – as an energy supply for existing installations on the base. Oil and gas companies work well, not least in cooperation with the supplier industry, as the representative Stoknes points out. We might see this in the years to come, but once again it is socio-economic profitability and industrial profitability that lie behind the assessments that are naturally done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1949	Another option that opens up if you get this industry going is to look at extended life for existing offshore installations. This means that an extension of the operational life cycle can be envisaged if, for example: use platforms as bases for the maintenance of wind farms or for the conversion of energy, either in the form of a ‘hub’ or for example. force to hydrogen. Are these future aspects that the Council of State thinks are interesting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1954	The short answer to that is yes. The different oil installations are a little different in character. Some have an estimated lifetime and the lifetime corresponds to the resources that the installations are set up to take out. In other situations, you can have a lifetime on an installation longer than the normal production phase associated with oil and gas. Then, of course, alternative uses linked to sea winds can be an option. Again, it is largely the business operators who have to look at this, but from my point of view as the responsible state council, I am in favour of it. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to say that we are also working well internationally on this topic. It is primarily international that we are going through with the Norwegian supplier industry. When I was in the United States recently, I agreed with the Minister of the Interior of the Trump Administration that we should conclude a cooperation agreement, a so-called MOU, on the development of sea winds between Norway and the United States. I look forward to finishing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1961	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1968	The pessimist complains about the wind, the optimist expects it to change direction, while the realist adjusts the sails. Today we adjust the sails. We adjust the sails and prepare for the wind revolution. Not only does the government open up several Norwegian areas to wind turbines at sea, but today, through these proposals, we ensure better predictability of the industry. Norwegian industry is ready to seize the opportunities desirable. We have wind in the sails – and the Council of State on our side. Last week we were served a very smoking fresh IEA report. It told us that sea wind can be cheaper than both land wind and solar power in ten years — ten years! Now it's fast, and then it's important that we hang out. Because, as IEA itself said, we have all been surprised by the fall in prices. And the IEA is not exactly known for being positive on behalf of renewable energy. So why sea wind? We have so much hydropower in Norway, probably many say. Is there any point with more renewable energy? The answer to that is yes – and not primarily because of the power supply, although it is a fine bonus, but because of the technology development and the value creation. We're going to have more legs to wear in Norway than the oil. In 2016, renewable energy sources amounted to 86 pst. of all new capacity in the European mains power grid. Wind power alone accounted for more than half of all new capacity. Marine wind power is growing rapidly internationally, and old-fashioned thinking is blowing off farms. But almost all wind power today is bottomless. Liquid wind power technology is not as technologically mature as ground-solid wind, but technology has enormous market potential because it opens up to the development of deeper water. In Norway, we have one of the world's longest deep-water coastlines, and technology development can therefore be easier with us than in other countries. Nevertheless, it is not possible to jump under the chair that offshore wind power is significantly more expensive than wind power on land. More difficult operating conditions provide a higher cost level, while improving wind conditions are moving in the opposite direction. However, in order for Norwegian business to be able to participate in development and build skills and experience, the current investment is very important. Because even though summer has already arrived, and there will soon be no wind in the corridors of the Stortinget, we know that it will not stop blowing here in the country with the first. We Northmen have the tradition of harvesting this wind. The wind brought Norwegian sailing ships to all corners of the world and made us a major force in the shipping industry. Now we get another wind in the sails, and can become a major force on renewable power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e1985	Marine wind turbines will be an important future industry that will enable us to contribute to the shift towards a low-carbon future. It's still a relatively new industry, but there's a lot of exciting happening, and we're still seeing new heavy nutritionists investing in sea wind. I also want to say that we have had floating wind turbines outside my home municipality, Karmøy, since 2009, as the representative Stoknes mentioned in his post. We were very proud to take part in this pilot project, which was the first of its kind in the world at the time. It is good to contribute with what is abundant, and winds and waves are abundant resources in us. Windmills outside Karmøy have worked perfectly in all wind and wave conditions for over eight years, and this is the design concept we chose to build Hywind Scotland on. It's just this role we as a nation have to build on. We have the resources, we have a lot of expertise, and we need to continue to facilitate the development of new renewable energy opportunities. We need that, and it needs the whole world. I therefore believe that this is a good proposal that has been promoted and is to be adopted today. Although we do have a strategy for liquid wind power, there is a need to develop something more detailed on how to get started. One thing is the importance of providing the world with renewable energy. Another important aspect is the potential for creating new jobs. We now see shipping companies, at least on my edge of the country, who are changing and building ships that can serve sea wind fields. We know that this further opens up a significant supplier industry – with new jobs and with the importance it has for the continued well-being of our country. That's what's important, and it's so good that we can stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2002	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2018	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2029	As explained here, SV's document 8 is the basis for this case. It is an important matter that we are debating today. The case of compensation from the farming industry to municipalities and communities has been going on for many years. In the left, we have programmed the introduction of compensation to municipalities for the organisation of the area for breeding activities, such as compensation for land use and local environmental disadvantages. Also in the government's Jeløya platform it is said that the government will «stimulate local authorities to make available to the industry through the use of marine funds». The size has also shown in the past the willingness of the farming industry to contribute to local communities, both through the Maritime Fund, which was established in 2015, and through the SV’s proposal for an export tax, which was adopted in 2017, but rejected in connection with Stortinget’s treatment of the state budget for 2018. As rapporteur, I believe that we have now provided a good solution. We have a large number of large sizes that, with good intentions, want a broad-based investigation involving both aquaculture communities providing land and the industry, etc., being involved in such an investigation, with a view to introducing an adjusted and improved tax regime during 2020. In the investigation, it is important to focus on both the needs of municipalities and industry. We want stability and a predictable system where the municipalities and industry know what they have to do with. Marine farming is a fantastic growth industry in Norway, and we need to make sure that we can take advantage of the great opportunities ahead. Nor should we hide that the industry also has its challenges, and I am sure that it will also be managed over time. However, I also believe that it is natural to have an investigation in addition, on the financing of local communities for the use of land and natural resources, which also looks at the possibility of financing work with, among other things. Wilderness that escapes, and marine litter. I know that the industry has these issues high on its agenda. An even stronger effort here will help the aquaculture industry to become even stronger the solid social player it has the potential to become. I think that's good. As mentioned above, there is a broad majority of the investigation now under way. However, in this case I am also surprised at how the centre party chooses to position itself. On the one hand, the Center Party has said that they want more money for the municipalities. On the other hand, the Center Party says that they are negative to increased taxation, to which the government is now adding up. I understand that it is pleasant for a politician to be able to say yes and no to more taxes. In particular, I understand that it is pleasant to have such a position as a local election party approaches. I would nevertheless claim that the Centre Party seems to have forgotten when they were a real governing party, which took responsibility for contributing to constructive solutions. Then it is very natural for me also to give a strong tribute to both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, who have helped to get the widest possible majority in this matter. I think that is very important, because a majority of that type is also important for building predictability of the industry. As you know, the job isn't over. Me and the Left will contribute to a good solution that provides a stable funding for municipalities and communities and helps to maintain a sustainable – both economic and environmental – aquaculture industry in Norway. With that, I recommend the recommendation of the majority, which includes the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2055	The working party is committed to ensuring that the municipalities of aquaculture are provided with a predictable annual remuneration for making land available, even in non-growth periods, while the aquaculture industry needs predictable framework conditions for further sustainable growth. We therefore welcome the broad consensus on a NOU to assess different forms of taxation of the aquaculture industry, including production tax and resource interest. It will provide a knowledge base that looks at the whole and serves both purposes, that is, the need of aquaculture communities to transfer incomes, but also that the aquaculture industry needs competitiveness in the future. All hearing bodies want a NOU, and all, with the exception of networks for fjord and coastal municipalities, are critical for the imposition of production charges. Networks of fjord and coastal municipalities request a production fee from 1 July 2019, in parallel with the NOU work. The marine communities will receive significant transfers from the Maritime Fund in the coming years, and the Labour Party does not see any problems with a NOU to be finalised in the Stortinget in mid-2020, where the production fee will also be investigated. Marine industry is one of our most important coastal industries and needs to be guaranteed a comprehensive framework to create more profitable all-year jobs and increased value creation in Norway. The working party is concerned about the high amounts for which concessions are now being traded. We fear it will challenge the diversity of the aquaculture industry. It is a characteristic of industries that succeed in having a broad range, from large locomotives to small and medium-sized, often locally owned, actors. We think there are other, more reasonable ways to take out the base rate than concessions of between 90 million. SEK and 120 million. kr. We expect the NOU to also look at the pricing of the concessions. Marine nutrition is a global industry subject to trade restrictions, environmental challenges and rapid changes in demand, which may affect the price of salmon and trout. The investigation must therefore assess the international competitive situation, the profitability conditions and the risk of biological production at sea. The NOU will also shed light on the ring-fenced effects of the aquaculture industry and how this is distributed among different parts of the country. The Labour Party wants a facility for the tax and tax system that supports employment and industrialisation in Norway. The study will also look at the relationship between Norwegian and foreign ownership. Taxes must be designed to provide a good basis for knowledge development, innovation, investment and sustainable growth. It has been particularly important for the Workers' Party that the NOU Committee be composed and also have representatives from the Maritime Communities. It will provide the necessary legitimacy and anchoring. In addition to the principle of selection, it is essential that the taxation of industry is assessed not only by the Ministry of Finance but also by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. It will be essential for good framework conditions to be put in place to ensure both stable and predictable annual incomes for aquaculture communities and competitiveness for the aquaculture industry to help create more jobs and increase value creation across our beautiful coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2074	In this case, a broad majority is established, and one can hope that there will be even wider voting. I would like to thank the cooperation and give tribute to both the case rapporteur and the parties who have been involved in reaching this agreement to develop a NOU based on a party-based sample – with ‘parties’ in the broadest sense in this context. Then it is not to hide that for us in the Right it is essential to prevent the introduction of a gross gross gross, highly harmful levy on fish for aquaculture. It could have major negative consequences, especially for small farmers in the districts. This is what I expect from the investigation that is now being carried out. It has also been important that whatever model it needs to be properly investigated. We're talking here about maybe one of our industries that has the greatest growth potential in the years to come, and where our natural conditions are a competitive advantage. In that case, a future tax system, if any, needs to be thoroughly investigated to minimise its negative impact. Theoretically, it is possible to imagine tax systems that do not, but in practice, when one chooses to tax an industry higher than others, it could lead to misallocation and distortions from profitable industries, high value creation and large contributions to welfare to less profitable industries, lower value creation and less, perhaps negative, contributions to well-being and employment. These effects are often underestimated when viewed in isolation on the impact of individual charges on an industry. Therefore, it is important that both the financial perspective and the economic and employment outlook emerge when we develop this NOU. The tax system must not hinder innovation and innovation. I would warn against putting too many conflicting considerations into what is now to be investigated. I also want to warn against orwellish language usage in this context. Increased taxes lead to higher costs in enterprises and less capacity for reinvestment and innovation – let’s not pretend otherwise. Some have pointed out in this debate the costs and disadvantages of the municipalities in farming facilities. I find it hard to see that this argument has a particularly heavy weight. There are no major disadvantages associated with this use of sea area, which has often not had any other alternative use, and it is difficult for me to see that the cost of planning in municipal plans should exceed the close to 2 billion. kr as it appears that the municipalities can be awarded this year – and then I speak in the historical period related to planning. It's claimed by single researchers that there's a base rate of 27 billion. kr per year in this industry. It is calculated on the basis of a model that in practice allocates all profits in addition to normal returns to rent. This is particularly so because such an approach requires that the aquaculture industry does not contribute to the creation of value through its activities. Add now that this is already paid today 23 pst. tax, so that this alone generates about 6 billion. kr. The industry as a whole contributes directly by 10 billion. kr in taxes, and then no taxes on wealth or about 2 billion. kr in payment for new growth, which it appears to be this year, calculated, or other indirect taxes. That the attitude to this as only a tax item is also present here, is perhaps best demonstrated in the recent opinion of the representative Knag Fylkesnes to Today’s Business: ‘There’s an incredible amount of bees from the breeders. Billions of tears are running. They come with coco statements while they make billions. It's inconvenient. They show little understanding and little gratitude for creating values from the resources of the community.» It most certainly shows how little understanding there is of the fact that value creation mainly takes place here from domestic animals that the industry has raised from eggs to dinner tables. It is important to be aware that the concession itself is currently being paid for and that the use of the water area which constitutes essentially the Community resource here. It's important that we look at what these companies can and have the ability to pay, not just in the short term. Last year the salmon price varied between 43 and 80 kroner. In the first five months of the year, it has varied from about 50 to just under 80 kroner. At one end a good money is made, at the other end not. This depends on when you have mature salmon. Therefore, it is highly harmful to gross taxes that can be passed on to enterprises if they are unhappy with the market. Therefore, we are also most interested in looking at a basic interest rate tax, net tax. But as we see, when SV suggests it, all counter-arguments are “bejs”, “coco-expressions” and “impossible” – or life’s work, workplaces, value creation and well-being, as we call it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2096	Let me first of all thank the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right for constructive cooperation in this matter, a cooperation that has led to a majority proposal that creates predictability for an industry that carries many coastal communities on its back. The marine industry is a relatively young industry, and if we look back, it's not just sunshine stories. I remember well as an employee in the industry when plants went bankrupt, factories shut down, and many lost their jobs. I was one of those who got to know this on the body, and one of those who remembers just this. It is not long since salmon was frozen in stock around this country in an attempt to keep the price at a level that at least covered the operating costs. Many remember how this ended with the bankruptcy of FOS and how it hit many coastal communities. Although it is a while since the 1990s that we are here today, this is still a reminder that the only sure thing we can say about the future is that the salmon price will go up and it will go down. Then over a few years we have had salmon prices that have mostly gone up and given some amazing operating margins to most people. The fact that the industry makes money, a lot of money, I think is fantastic for Norway as a nation and the coast in particular. I've grown up in the West Pole, a region that these days invests billions in different projects. When this happens, it is because the aquaculture industry reinvests profits in new jobs and new activities. We're not talking about any jobs coming out of this -- we're actually talking about hundreds of jobs. The coast is full of examples of just this, that amazing operating results from the aquaculture industry serve this nation well. It is good when we read the NHO Annual Report, which refers to 136 000 jobs being lost in the last five years due to digitisation. Continuing the trend, another 300,000 jobs will be gone by 2030. Then we have the perspective message, which says the same thing in plain text, that new jobs need to be created. Here I believe the aquaculture industry is an essential part of this solution. In this picture, however, there is no additional taxation beyond ordinary corporate taxation, which I think is the best framework for creating jobs and building communities along the coast – across the board. So I believe that in this debate on the contribution of industry to the right to use sea water, what the industry actually contributes to the ordinary taxation is sub-communicated. About 10 billion. kr in annual tax revenue is in no way an insignificant amount. The remuneration for the purchase of growth or property taxes is not included. The compensation for the purchase of growth lies there and will benefit many municipalities in the time to come. There have been many initiatives to impose new taxes and/or taxes on this industry. I am glad that SV, with its representative proposal, does not get a majority to introduce a completely new production fee overnight. The industry deserves the predictability of a NOU, where the parties, industry, the Ministry of Fisheries and the municipalities are allowed to take part in the investigation to take place. Then we will have to take the debate when the NOU is available, where the debate can be based on knowledge and consequences – consequences for an industry that contributes every day to the maintenance and development of coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2113	The centre party has taken its position on the concerns of the farming industry, on the concerns of coastal communities and on the value creation in Norway. When we see that there is a proposal to charge a base rate tax, it would be natural to ask, what is behind it? What is it really that's behind it? There is a fear that coastal municipalities will get too much of the value creation that takes place in the farming industry. The marine fund scheme that provides 80 pst. the value of new concessions and the growth of existing concessions may rapidly amount to large amounts for the municipalities. There's someone who wants to get into the state box. There is no doubt that the government is in the process of dealing with this matter of paying a basic interest tax, motivated by the state. Unfortunately, the majority of the population have been included in a decision that can both increase the taxation of the industry and frame coastal communities. The centre party thinks and wants the municipalities along the coast to keep a greater share of the value creation that is taking place. We therefore do not propose to challenge the good system of aquaculture funds, but we will secure the municipalities part of the current value creation through a limited production fee. The farming industry is not suitable for rent taxes. Oil and gas are the property of rent taxes. That's where it is. Water power is the property of land interest tax. She can't move either. It's about raw materials that have a lot of value in little processing. Breeding is not like that. Breeding can be moved. Raising means a significant amount of processing to achieve the economic results. One shall hatch eggs, melted eggs shall be produced. Large amounts of power feed must be fed. The product must be slaughtered, etc. There's something completely different than a basic interest tax object. Furthermore, by definition, rent taxes are a State tax. There must be a reason why the government just chose the term "ground rate" when it went out with its output, for example. a natural resource tax, which by definition is a municipal tax. When it comes to the tax level, the basic interest rates that you have vary between 35 pst. and up to 55 pst. The central party's proposal for a few tens of dollars in the fee per kilogram produced is a completely different level than where the rent tax traditionally has a doctor. We have tried to challenge the Minister of Fisheries to at least say something about the level of concern. Is it above or below 20 pst.? Is it above or below 40 pst.? We don't get answers, but I think one should have seen some constraints for the taxpayer before a set down such a selection. It is a pity that the organisations in the farming industry were not some of them with the Center Party in that it was better to pay some tenors for renting land through a production tax than to get a new billion tax from the government. The Foundation of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left options are also special. This shall provide room for reducing harmful taxes and charges. There, I want to give you some good advice about the three games. If an e.g. Get the idea of introducing an anti-commercial, harmful flight seat charge, drop it! Get an idea to introduce a new sugar fee, drop it! Batch can do fine without applying a basic interest tax. Then it is claimed that one must have an income-independent charge or tax. It depends on the level. It is clear that if one is going to pull in 20-30 pst. of the excess, it must be related to the excess, but on the same line that when a land or a store clock is rented, the rent does not depend on the excess. When we see a limited fee, it is not necessary to make it independent of income. Finally, a brief consideration of the time perspective set: this should be clear in spring 2020. Until then, a NOU selection is to be added. They shall implement the NOU. They shall send it out on a ring, and a proposition shall be drawn up to be re-treated by the Storting. I think someone gets it very busy, and in time until this is clear, both the industry and the coastal communities must live in uncertain ways. With that, I'm going to bring up the Center Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2136	The representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2141	First, I just want to record some errors that were made here. The case spokesperson said that SV had made suggestions for an export tax. That's not true. It was the result of the management of the committee in the previous period that led to what has been referred to as an export tax, but which is not. We have always meant that a production fee should be introduced. Then to the representative Nilsen and this with billions of tears. The representative of Nilsen is probably happy to quote from the context, but this was a response to a breeder who had no understanding of any form of taxation in the farming industry. I would like to remind the representative of Nilsen that this is what the representative now suddenly opens up for. If you want to do good in this, you have to make sure that the Right Party and the Progress Party may open up some kind of taxing. The production fee or area charge has been paid for decades. This is a fight that's been going on for a very long time. My question is, What has changed? Then I'm thinking in particular of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party in this case, where one just one year ago – quite exactly one year ago – was willing to introduce taxation, but now there's suddenly a whole new situation. The only thing that has happened is that the people who were present then are no longer there. Committee members have been replaced and new people have come in. The other thing that has happened is that the lobbyists from the salmon industry have been running an extensive campaign to just get on that track that is quite likely to have multiples today. It's changed. When it comes to the promise that one entered the election campaign in 2017, where the voters believed that one was actually willing to impose a fee, there was a breach in two intense weeks with close meetings. It's changed. It is not true, as the representative Grung says, that this is a NOW to be finalised in Stortinget. A NOO process should be performed, which will take a long time. Then he's going to enter the government, and it's the government that's going to put this before the Grand Government. So it's a government that was basically the opposite of each other to introduce a new fee, which is now opening up to it, but then the municipalities are out of the picture. It is a purely fiscal income that, to read their comments, will help lower taxes in other areas of society. The distribution key, where the revenue from salmon production is to a greater extent to the municipalities, is missing in their image. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have also exchanged alliances in the middle of the process and have now joined forces with those who do not see the legitimate demands of the municipalities when it comes to participating in the value creation and who are originally in favour of such a charge. Why does that happen? What would you like to do with it? Would it be that the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party, when the result comes, and there is a device from the government for this, must return to the Center Party and SV? Why did one not agree on a multiple with those who actually want to have such a fee, who were willing to discuss it, and who were concerned about how much the municipalities would get? Why was it broken? Why did one turn instead of the government party – with all the luggage they have? This casts shadows over an otherwise good cooperation. I can't help but remember the loyalty we've been chosen for here. Our loyalty must be to those who have chosen us, to the promise we have given them, and to the good we have given them. The fact that there was going to be uncertainty in the last few – in summer days on Stortinget – and turn this upside down is for me the big question in this case. I would like to address the proposal to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2162	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2167	The marine industry has had an adventurous journey. From the very beginning, the industry has grown into a billion-dollar industry in Norwegian fjords. These are important value creation, important export incomes and important district jobs. The basis for this growth has been an innovative industry, but not least good natural conditions in Norwegian fjords and waters. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norwegian municipalities receive part of the value creation from the farming industry through some form of taxation when there are municipalities that make the area available to the industry. It is an important principle that disadvantages in the bonding of sea areas and environmental challenges are compensated. I feel convinced that increased tax intake from the aquaculture industry will contribute to a greater level of goodwill among local politicians in coastal municipalities. There is an upside in increased taxation that the industry should not underestimate. The Government announced on 27 April this year that they will investigate and, where appropriate, propose a basic interest tax on aquaculture with the introduction in 2020. It is an approach to the issue of taxation of the farming industry that the Christian People's Party finds interesting. At the same time, Christian People's Party believes that a fee per kilogram of fish produced with the necessary flexibility in relation to market prices and operating margins for each company may also be a current model for the taxation of the farming industry. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the setting up of a party-based NOU selection, representing the aquaculture industry and aquaculture communities, which investigates different models of how taxation of the aquaculture industry can be implemented. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is a prerequisite for the host municipalities to have part of the creation of the value through taxation of the farming industry, and this must be the basis for the investigation. It is also in line with the principle underpinning the Maritime Fund, where revenue is distributed by 70 pst. to the municipalities, 20 pst. to the State and 10 pst. to the counties. We believe that the same distribution key may be relevant for the distribution of land interest tax or production tax. We in the Christian People's Party are impatient to put this in place, but at the same time we believe that it is necessary that the investigation work be done properly, so that we get a system that stands for the future. Then we believe that landfill treatment in the spring of 2020 is a correct time horizon on this matter. It is a tight timetable for the first development of a NOU, but both the aquaculture industry, the host municipalities and other actors are impatient to ask the country about a tax model once and for all. I have noticed that the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has gone hard in the media – and from here – with claims that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party are failing the coastal communities. We're supposed to have done a kneecap for the breeding lobbyists. I'm kind of given over these statements. For our part, we want a good basis for decision when we're going to land this case. The parties that form a majority in the case agree on some important prerequisites for the investigation which are now to be initiated. The NOU report shall be drawn up by a sample composed of the parties, representing both the coastal municipalities and the industry. We also agree that the tax models to be investigated should respect the principle that the host municipalities should benefit from a significant proportion of the tax revenue. Then we can certainly state that the claim that the lobbyists have won falls on their own unfairness. I also record that the network of fjord and coastal municipalities meets the investigation work that is about to begin, precisely because the host municipalities will be represented in the sample. We want work to start as quickly as possible, want happiness and meet with a final conclusion in spring 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2187	Today’s debate is an important debate – based on many assumptions it is very important. We're talking about an industry that has great ambitions and high expectations for itself, and we in general and in government have exactly the same ambitions and expectations to build this industry to become a cornerstone of Norway and of the coast. It is an industry that, in a relatively short period of time, has gone from being a secondary industry to becoming a carrier of the coast, but also has prospects of becoming a carrier to finance Norwegian welfare. There are several people talking about predictability here. The round that was in this house in 2015 was just to create predictability for the industry. One thing that Stortinget agreed on at the time is what is today called the traffic light system. It was turned on on 1 January this year. So far it seems to work, and the industry has settled down on this system, but we still have some holes to fill forward. That's why we're in a process where this traffic light system is going to work to a much greater extent, so that we can take out the potential in the industry without going beyond sustainability. The second was the Aquaculture Fund. It is right that the representative, Mr Fylkesnes, pointed out that the debate on the production fee is not a new debate. This debate has gone on for ten, eleven, twelve years. But what the Stortinge did in 2015 was just cutting through to create predictability for the industry. There was a broad agreement in the Stortinget in 2015 that the Marine Farming Fund would create predictability and secure income for the municipalities that facilitated aquaculture. But you've now gone away from it. That's not predictability. Switching these types of structures and important approaches to the industry every two years is not predictability. The challenges of industry – and opportunities – I think are very well described in the setting, by different parties in different ways. But there is no doubt that in the last three to four years enormous challenges have emerged, but also enormous opportunities for industry. On the one hand, collapse and government have agreed to impose significant regulation on industry in order to ensure sustainability in this respect. On the other hand, the industry has also been tempted to invest billions of dollars through these development concessions. If all applicants for development concessions had received a total of yes – 104 applications – the industry would have been willing to invest 20–25 billion. kr, for innovation and new technologies, and for creating technologies and growth within the framework set by the government. The next thing is to tax more. That's why I think, unlike the Center Party, who wants in both bag and bag and everything else for 162 municipalities, that there's sense in what the Storting falls on right now. Let's look at the whole industry and challenges ahead of us – that's the international one, whether we succeed in the predictable grips that we did in 2015, and let this work. Then you have to take a round and see the whole industry in the context, as it is well described in the setting. And then you get back with a good, important grip on this industry that both ensures growth, ensures sustainability and ensures that the municipalities that facilitate aquaculture get their share of it. I record that several parties are engaged by small, medium-sized and large companies. That's also the government, and that's why I have the traffic light system, but not least in the case of the auction, where we sell 6 pst. growth this year, it has been maintained to the best of its ability. There are 68 companies that have 5 authorisations or fewer, there are 25 companies that have 6 or 20 authorisations, and there are 9 companies that have 21 or more authorisations. So we have small, medium-sized and large companies. The sale of 2 percent in January showed that we had actually invested in such a level that the small ones also had the opportunity to buy growth. And that's also going to include the new auction that's just around the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2205	One of the issues that has been of great importance to us in the Storting is the selection of parties. So I'm asking the Council of State to ensure that party-based selections will be set up, that the coastal communities will be represented, and that we achieve a balance between the Ministry of Finance's thinking and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries's thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2210	I can only confirm that. I think it is absolutely important to have a dialogue with the Committee and also with the Stortinge when it comes to putting down the party sample. This is such an important matter that here everyone has to be represented, and it has to be balanced, in that way. I think it was a good question, and I also hope that it was a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2215	That's it. The next question is that in its majority decision, the Stortinget has set a rather tight deadline for the NOU, consultation and treatment in Stortinget – mid-2020. Can the Council of State ensure that this is realistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2224	When Stortinget makes tough progress plans, only the government has to work afterwards. I believe that it is fully possible during 2020 to get through all these processes – at least so that the Storting has something to do with treatment in 2020. I've had a lot of challenges from Stortinget in the past, with tough deadlines, and it's possible, if everyone gets in the harness and works together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2231	When a process of introducing a whole new tax for the farming industry, a basic interest rate tax, is initiated, it would be natural for the Council of State to have some thoughts about the level of that tax. I do not ask in detail what percentage it should be, but I would like to try to see if the Council of State can guarantee that the basic interest rate for the farming industry is not higher than 20 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2236	Now the representative Pollestad has asked these questions to my department – the Ministry of Finance is investigating tax issues. As Minister of Fisheries, I would also like to have a mandate to investigate, remove or introduce new taxes and taxes. Then I think the probability that it had disappeared some fees, maybe would have been greater than what is. But the question has been asked by the representative Pollestad. It is clear that there are investigations that need to show the level of this, and there are different models that need to be investigated in view of both the level of taxation and the overall nature of the model. I listened to the statements of the representative Pollestad, and I found many points of agreement in terms of concept use in terms of resource interest rates or other terms to be correct in the aquaculture industry. I also hope and believe that it will be part of the party-wide sample to look at new taxation, possibly taxation, in the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2243	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The solution to the Centre Party has been to go for a limited production fee. If one looks at a production fee of – let's say – 35 øre per kilogram of fish produced, it is probably the number from 2017 that about 1.2 to 1.3 million tonnes of fish have been produced. Then a collective set will have a fee level for the nutrition of half a billion dollars. Is it with today's salmon prices etc. about the level at which the Council of State sees this to be, and can he confirm that I am wrong when I talk about the risk of a billion-dollar tax in the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2248	If it is not wrong, I listen carefully to the posts of the representative Pollestad. He has many speculations and many conspiracy theories. There's a lot of thoughts from the Center Party, but there's nothing new. Everything goes in the wrong direction in this country when the centre party is in opposition, but when the centre party is in position, everything goes in the wrong direction when it comes to both the one and the other. I'm not going to speculate on this, because the Stortinget has now asked for an investigation. Then, through the broad selection of parties, you will get the answers that Pollestad here wants. It is completely wrong for me to guarantee one or the other and to lead a sample to work towards 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2253	The contrast is pretty big to the debate we had exactly one year ago. I think both the council and those who were here then too, thinking that it was incredibly high temperature. Governments were very hard on any new fee and thought this was contrary to both previous settlements and others. Today, the Council of State looks like a happy person, and it is interesting to note the alliance partners of the Council of State. My first question goes on this with distribution. It cracks in every direction. When it comes to the remarks before the decision of the majority, the government party has a note, the Labour Party has its own, the Christian People's Party has its own. Then the Council of State gets responsible for giving a signal to a selection. What signal will the Council of State give when it relates to distribution to municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2261	The President will show that the temperature outside is at least higher this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2266	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2271	There will be a little lower temperature tomorrow, so maybe one would put the debates in Stortinget after outdoor temperature. I still insist on what was said by the undersigned a year ago, as it was a charge at that time. A production fee will have some of the same results as an export tax, which was also debated last year. I register that SV believes it is driven by extensive lobbying. It is then interesting to note that both the LO, the NNN and the Joint Association ask the Stortingen to reject the proposal from SV. If you think that the LO and all of these are doing lobbying, you'd have to do it, but I think maybe there were other SV thinking in that way. As regards the Marine Fund, which was adopted in 2015, I note that more people now believe that it works very well, that it has a good distribution. The distribution has been established. I think I can imagine it for the autumn when the money is to be distributed to these municipalities, probably between 2.3 and 2.4 billion. kr: I think most municipalities will smile towards Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2280	I want to encourage the President to point out that the Council of State answered something that was quite outside the question, which is about lobbyism, which I will discuss in a later debate. I'm asking the Council of State to participate in it, too, because we have to talk about that. The woman may be an extreme example of the difference between the private wealth that this has created and public poverty. Marine Harvest has a facility there, tens of millions of dollars. The direct tax access to the municipality of Kvänangen is approximately NOK 25 000, according to DN, and that was from 2016. This means that large values are created locally, but little comes back to the coastal communities – most people. The Council of State now sees the point of increasing the direct entrance to the municipalities from production, as it did. is the proposal for a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2287	I'm pointing at the Marine Fund. It was also pointed out in the debate last year that the results of the Maritime Fund might have to be awaited. That was part of the discussion. Now we're in the first year of payment from the Maritime Fund. I think the vast majority of aquaculture communities will be reasonably satisfied when we come to the harvest. It's a little dependent on how much sales you get from the auction that's going on in these days. That was the basis for the agreement in 2015. SV did not agree with this agreement and of course is free to present the proposals that you would like to make. But when you talk about poor and rich, there is also a discussion between rich and poor municipalities that goes into this. It is also a debate we have had in the past on power stations, etc. I would also like to point out that when we talk about small companies, it is the operating margins of small companies that have actually been growing most since 2012, as opposed to medium-sized and large companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2294	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2301	The centre party is committed to maintaining a diversity of actors in the farming industry. There is a concern that today's concession system and payment for growth make the industry very capital-intensive. The centre party therefore believes that a system needs to be investigated that replaces today's acquisition of concessions with a system of concession rental. In a meeting with coastal municipalities here in Oslo not long ago, municipalities that have bred expressed a great need for predictability of incomes to the municipality. The municipalities often gave large areas, but they didn't get much left for it. A representative from the Right in the panel replied that the municipalities should be happy that they contributed to the country’s making money, even though the coastal municipalities did not make money. This was not well received by the coastal rapporteurs. With such attitudes, not many coastal municipalities are going to be open to allocate new land to farming. The centre party points out that the background to the proposal for a production tax was that one would get a fairer distribution from the farming industry to the farming municipalities. The Committee refers to the State Council's letter of reply, where the Council of State informs the Committee that the Government wishes to apply a basic interest tax on marine use introduced in 2020. The centre party considers that this proposal is sufficiently comprehensive and transparent to allow in practice the possibility of abandoning the proposal to introduce a new production fee or rent where the host municipalities receive a fair share. The proposal also opens the way for the conversion of the established scheme of aquaculture funds. Such a solution would warn the Center Party against. With such a solution, there is a risk that breeding companies will not be required to pay more to the communities where the value creation takes place. The centre lot is concerned that municipalities that make land available for farming shall retain a share of the value added. We believe that the marine fund scheme works according to the intention. The disadvantage is that the input of income into the fund depends on growth and is therefore not predictable. The farming industry uses free fjord and coastal areas that are part of the external general population. This usage closes from time to time for other activities in the same area. The activities cause losses to private — often local fishermen — as a result of land conflicts and as a result of pollution and population decline in the immediate surroundings of the facilities. In an industry like year after year, shareholders guarantee billions of dividends, it must be legitimate to collect some of the basic interest, in order to distribute it to the population who has to live with many of these disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2316	Right now, after the last post, it would have been quite tempting to ask the Central Party in which direction they actually intended to come up with the criticism. First we have the head of the nutrition committee, who fears that this will be too high a tax, and then we now have the representative Adelsten Iversen from the same committee, who fears that there will be no tax at all. I think somewhere in between is the most likely, but I think you might want to decide what you want to criticize. One post can be interpreted as being afraid of an excessive tax and therefore will not have any tax; the other can be interpreted as being afraid of an excessive tax and therefore will have a much higher tax. At the same time, I would like to say that the best way to create a problem for the industry is to remove the ownership concession and move on to the rental of concessions – there is certainly better, but it is the best thing that is mentioned here today. This means that it is not possible in practice to provide security for the investments to be made in the industry. It would have been a disaster. After all, they have become accustomed to the debate technique of the head of the nutrition committee, and it was certainly an exercise in assigning other intentions that they do not necessarily have – to say the least. Let me put it this way: the criticism that was promoted by the representative of the Central Party here is in a way quite simple to reflect on the proposal that is here. He has spent a lot of time speaking on this speaker to criticise the fees that have been charged on gross, among other things. on sugar and air travel. Then he suggests the exact same thing himself. He criticises that it cannot be said directly here — naturally, something else would have been strange — from the Council of State what the rate should be, but in his own proposal has no indication of what the rate should be. So we don't know if it's on one ear or how much it is. It's mentioned here from the pulpit 35 cents as an example. Last year, the example was 25 cents. If we keep doing that, the money that's earned in the breeding industry disappears pretty quickly. Let me at least say that whatever the point of view of this and whatever you think of it is, it makes sense to have a thorough investigation of what we're going to do. I have seen the feedback from, among others. ESA, which is not necessarily the representative of the Central Party's best friend, but it makes sense anyway. So to the representative of Fylkesnes: I hope in the next article he explains why he has made the proposal he has made. My loyalty lies with those who have participated in this conciliation. It is up to all of us to have a strong and strong responsibility, which I will follow up, to come up with a solution that can stand between the same partners, so that it is possible to have a stable framework for industry, regardless of the changing political majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2331	Spokesman! I think the majority in this case has given fairly clear reasons for their intentions. I don't think that's to be misunderstood. I want to get short of what Knag Fylkesnes was about. It is quite correct that it started with a fee and was agreed in relation to the export charge. Anyway, essentially the end of the view was the same. I'm a little surprised at the committee leader, who now chooses to paint with a broad brush. He himself presents a gross tax proposal – not in the same way as the representative Reiten, who says that this must in any case be able to swing a little. Those reservations shall not take the chairman of the Committee. He takes no reservations at all. He promotes a proposal for pure gross taxation, which definitely has a clear trace of the Centre Party. So that's not to be misunderstood. The last post of his co-representative within the Committee creates unforeseeable. I thought in my naivety that the Maritime Fund was a very good solution, which gave the 162 municipalities, as the Council of State pointed out in a previous post, predictability. But then the Center Party creates a clear unpredictability. You want to turn this into a rental. So what's going to happen? Where is predictability? Some mentioned that many have been here and run lobbying, among others. NFKK. I was otherwise at the same meeting as the Adelsten Iversen representative. But I have not been told that they want less predictability – which renting the allowance will result. Interestingly, the debate makes it clear that this is the centre party's track, a gross tax on production. The Marine Fund will be converted so that it will no longer be a traffic lighting system, as it has been before, but that it will be rented out, which will make it unpredictable for the whole farming industry. That's the one. The second is that it will definitely provide unforeseeable for all coastal municipalities. Was that really the central party's policy? I am grateful that we have clarified this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2342	It was an old and good memory when the representative called me a spokesman. But from this podium it has to be more precise that there's one here, is that president one should be called.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2347	I will try to give honest and factual answers to the questions I received from the representative of Knag Fylkesnes. The first question was what has changed since June last year when a large majority in the Stortinget asked the government to charge a levy per kilogram of exported unprocessed salmon from the farming industry. One of the things that has changed is, among other things, that until then the aquaculture communities had received relatively little transfer, while the Maritime Fund has become much larger than the background for the June discussion one year ago. The next question concerns the production fee. There, the Workers' Party has been clear and said yes, we are in charge of a production fee. But on which we have also been open, it was important to have a hearing and get a hearing on this matter. There it has, among other things. found that a production charge would specifically affect small and medium-sized marine installations. In any case, there is one aspect of the Workers' Party's commitment to maintaining diversity. But we are still insisting that the production fee be investigated, and that is what we are doing today in the decision we are making. The last question was a little bit of a lecture, that I didn't understand that a NOU means that the government is sitting at the wheel until mid-2020. I asked and got a clarification, it is quite clear from the decision that there should be both a NOU process and a consultation round, plus that it should be promoted for the Storting, so that it can be addressed during 2020. The decision is quite clear, that's what we've been working together about. Although the various parties behind the proposal have different approaches to it, it is a very clear joint decision that we are behind. Finally, the Labour Party has always been responsible for good distribution policy. In this context, that means, among other things. that the coastal municipalities are to be remunerated for the area at their disposal. The Labour Party has always been a value creation party and is concerned that we have a framework that enables us to create more jobs in Norway, more processing and more value creation and industrialisation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2365	Just a few comments about what Grung says here, that what was new, was that the Marine Fund is bigger than we thought a year ago. Here I will give all credit to the Minister for Fisheries Sandberg. He thoroughly informed about it in the debate exactly one year ago, and there have been no significant changes in that picture to this day. That's the exact same thing. We knew exactly what this was then. So it hasn't actually changed, unless the Minister of Fisheries has a frame that we don't have access to. The question of small and medium-sized enterprises was also a topic that was up then, but the Labour Party has turned around. When it comes to the NOO process, it wasn't my point to be ‘tuning’, but just point to the fact that when the NOO process is over and the consultation round is over, it's going to enter a government that we know what it means to this issue. That's why there's reason to doubt what the Workers' Party actually wants to be the end result when they choose to go in this type of alliance. The auctioning system is the most challenging for small and medium-sized enterprises. When a permit costs 120 million. kr, it is clear that there is nothing that small and medium-sized enterprises can go into. It's rigged for those who have already entered this and have a lot of money, it's rigged for those who exist there today. If you want to do something for small and medium sized ones, you have to do something about the concession system. In the past, SV has indicated that we want to reduce the price of rights, or concessions that it is called before, and increase the tax on production from concession to production. Lakselobbyen is very happy today, they have pronounced it in various press. They think they've come up with exactly what was their starting point. With the decision we make today, the coastal communities have lost millions, that's a fact. We have a strangely pleasant diet. When it comes to the rest of the people who have lobbied on this issue – the organisations of the added and coastal communities in general – it is interesting to ask the question: What kind of information have they been given in the process, and what kind of impressions have they got here? But I want to say that there has never been an attempt to form a wide multiple to the left. What you've done here is you've gone directly to the government party to create multiples there. The fact that it has been signaled to these actors that this was the best thing you could do is to make a direct mistake. A much better option was on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2378	The majority are currently in the process of making a five-lot decision. In the option, the five parties have no less than three different reasons for their proposal. So claiming that the Center Party creates insecurity, there's definitely no room to do. So it's right that when we see that the plural is about to change today's system as the introduction of a basic interest tax is going to be, because one will get lower payments for the purchase of growth and the purchase of new concessions in exchange for a running tax, it's on that basis the Centre's comments, as also the representative Iversen was in his post, go over to say that then it's also natural, if a good thing to do so, to view it as a rental relationship. With that, a community will also secure its ownership of the concessions. When one first reapplies the system of introducing a basic interest rate tax, we think it is a relevant thing to evaluate, and I also hope that the Council of State will take this into account in its assessments. There is no conflict between my post and Mr. Geir Iversen's post. It is true that we fear an increase in taxation for the industry — a sharp increase in taxation for the industry. It is quite possible that local authorities will still get less than today. Because to the extent that a driving speculation in the matter and that someone has made a kneefall for someone, I will not say that there is any kneefall for the lakselobby as the plural has done today. There is a fall for the Ministry of Finance that has been made here, which definitely wants a greater share of the value creation into the state treasury for any later distribution. I wanted the plural to be able to say anything about the level that one sees. That's what I tried in my post, to be clean and sketch a possible level of what a production fee might be on. I think I'd be clear if the plurals had also done. When matters come back, there is no doubt that the production fee is one of the things that has been paid out. There is no doubt that there are enough parties in the plural that are closer to the Center Party than they are to cooperate with, and of course the Center Party will be prepared to discuss the matter when the NOO is finished and we get a proposition for the Storting when it has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2391	The size has very good experience of the fact that where a person introduces new charges or significantly increases existing charges without investigating them, there may be very unfortunate results. In particular, the sugar levy is a good example. So now a production fee is proposed without being determined. The Labour Party has been constantly concerned, including in the debate a year ago, that we should investigate this with an export tax. We've never said that we're going directly on without investigating. I think that's a wise approach. Is there any discussion here about what should lie in this investigation? If that's the case, I hope the Minister for Fisheries will make it very clear, because here's a mandate for the committee. And one of the prerequisites for the investigation, or one of the objectives of the investigation, is that we should ensure the municipalities a predictable income even in periods where there is no growth. It's not going to explain it in any other way. I think it's a well-thought-out way both to approach a future industry that has a significant growth potential ahead of it, and not least to ensure the municipalities a fair share of the income they should have in terms of making land available to an aquaculture industry. Lakselobby, it's said. Yeah, who's the leachobby in this context? Well, it's the employees of the LO Associations, who are members of this industry, Sjømat Norway is, Norwegian Industry is part of this lakselobby – it's really quite wide. It is that all the hearing bodies, including the coastal communities, have recommended that we should have a NOU instead of going to some direct solution in the Stortinget. Is it reasonable to listen to an overall industry and to the municipalities that are now affected? There's a pretty important question in Stortinget. For the Workers' Party, it's completely unnatural to park this so-called salmonobby on the side of such an important question of the future as what we're asking for here. Yes, then there may be a loss of one year or a half in relation to a production fee or whatever is there. That's possible it is. But I hope that the investigation will show that we are able to balance incomes for the municipalities and the basis for an important industry for the future – stability and predictability – better through a public investigation, which is a good approach for the Norwegian system when dealing with new issues. I hope that a co-ordinated growth could really go for the setting that exists, because that's what had been, I think, important and was the right way forward – both pointing to income and pointing out opportunities in this regard. So this isn't a kneecap for the Workers' Party. From the day one after this proposal was put forward, a little quickly, the Labour Party has been very clear that we want an overall investigation and an overall assessment of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2408	The representative Tom-Christer Nilsen has spoken twice earlier and has a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2414	A brief remark. First of all, the arguments that the Senterpartiet has so far led in the field against a flight seat fee and a sugar charge are no longer valid and are of no value, because now they're doing exactly the same thing themselves. That is what lies here in the introduction of a fee without investigation. Rent means putting down the farm fund as it is today. It will create a great uncertainty not only for industry but also for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2420	In the case of ‘kneading for the lobby’, it becomes a bit strange that a representative who has made a proposal identical to the proposal of a lobby organisation, namely the coastal community’s own lobby organisation, which has been acting mainly to lobby for this purpose, accuses others of kneeling for the lobby organisations. It is mandatory to notify in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2423	I will first be allowed to support the contributions of the representative of Aasland. That's what it's actually about. I felt it was a slightly leading question from the representative of Aasland, and I interpret it as a clear message to the Council of State, and that the mandate is clear, so that there should be no misunderstandings about it. I am responding to all the conspiracy theories taken up by both the Center Party and SV, so I would like both the Centre Party and SV to be included in this proposal. Then they had been involved in a process where one might have been led, considering that some of these conspiracy theories promoted by the SV and the Center Party could happen. Then I respond again to the fact that several representatives believe that it is reasonable to demand something from the industry. Yes, we all agree. That's why the Marine Fund came. Then it might be reasonable that during the fall, hopefully – I reserve the right to go about the auction that is just around the corner – it will flow to the aquaculture communities to a significant million. Maybe that's what's reasonable, and that's what you thought about in 2015. It is also reasonable that the aquaculture industry directly dumps 13 000 to 14 000 jobs along the coast. Indirectly, it is reasonable for the aquaculture industry to lose 25 000 to 26 000 jobs, all of which contribute to taxes and levies. It is also reasonable for the aquaculture industry to pay all ordinary taxes as other traders. It's not like the industry doesn't contribute anything, it almost sounds like it's someone. In addition, along the coast, the industry is throwing off considerable patriotic capital — building up local communities. So the industry deserves something other than the kind of conspiracy theory that SV and the Center Party come with. Then I would like to say to SV and the representative Knag Fylkesnes: we have just seen through the allocation of the 2-percent in January that we provided for small, medium-sized and large-sized-98 pst. of what was put out for sale was purchased by small, medium and large. Hopefully, the auctioning principle and the model that is being based on now will show the same thing because we're just adding that you can buy small quantities, all the way down to 1 tonne of MTB. We have arranged for exactly what is requested, and it is quite right that the Stortinge points out that the diversity of the population should be preserved. 100 companies that exist in the aquaculture sector today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2436	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2441	I would like to ask the representative Nilsen to prove that this is an identical proposal. This is created by SV – one will find it in our work programme – so I will ask him to document the claim, which is quite untimely. To me, the lechsobby has revealed those who represent the interests of the salmonindustry directly. That's what it is. That's how you have to understand it. For SV, the starting point is always our community – how to create an industry that also benefits the community best? In the interactions we have had in dealing with this matter, there has been one question that SV and the Central Party have never been willing to give up, and that is the fair part of the municipalities in this matter. That is precisely where the proposal for a decision is unclear – to put it mildly. And that's when it's so surprising that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are failing the fair share of the revenue that the coast is going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2450	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2455	I just want to explain again why we do not support the multiple proposal. Firstly, we fear that coastal communities will come out of the process that is being initiated. I think that the basic interest tax, which is a very central part of the proposal for a decision, and which was the government put on the table, is inappropriate for the farming industry. And when this compares to the sugar charge – which has had an increase of over 80 pst. – and a rather massive seat charge, I would like to stress that in the debate we have argued for a limited production fee to go to the municipalities, in addition to the Maritime Fund, which provides the municipalities with income from growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2463	The limitations of the proposal for decisions mentioned here by the representative Pollestad, I find it a little difficult to see. But enough about it – I will not abuse the speaking time on this. I think the representative of Aasland was crystal clear and clear. We were also when we negotiated this. This is not misunderstood. This was clearly brought to the Council of State, for which he also signed up. At least for the Left, it is clear that a knowledge party needs to acquire the necessary knowledge. I respect that this does not necessarily apply to all the parties, but for our part it is absolutely essential that we have a broad investigation – and as quickly as possible – so that we can get this back and make a decision, in the pact with what is, among other things. The representative of Aasland so clearly pointed out from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2472	The councils come to the pulpit and say that, among other things, The centre party is based on conspiracy theories. No, the Center Party takes seriously what the government itself presents. In the revised national budget, the government describes what you have the ambition to do. One has the ambition to assume that one will have a basic interest tax in the aquaculture industry. It is clear from the revised national budget that the Ministry of Finance is so far based on a model of interest-rate taxation similar to that of hydroelectric power plants, with some main elements. There's a more detailed description there. That's what we're taking as a starting point, what the government has in mind in this case. If it is that the government has a different view now a few weeks after a revised national budget was presented, it is fine if the Council of State can clarify it. But that's the view that has been so far presented by the government. And that is why we are concerned when such a vague mandate is presented to a NOU as the majority has done. It opens up the possibility that what goes on with the production fee can be put in a drawer, and it also opens up the possibility that the Maritime Fund may change. It is not to contribute to predictability either for industry or for the municipalities concerned. One of the reasons we're concerned about is that we've also seen the government act in other contexts in terms of the balance between the interests of the host municipalities and the state's revenues. For example, one sees it in the area of hydropower taxation, to which the government also refers in the RNB as a model in the field of aquaculture. In the hydropower industry, a recent increase in the basic interest rate tax has occurred. One has increased the income of the country and the income of the host municipalities has decreased. The same thing happened when one made changes in property taxes for works and uses. The income of the host municipalities is declining, but the state secures itself through revenue rising. It is particularly important that the municipalities concerned receive a legitimate share of the revenue from taxation. It is particularly important that one gets it not only in a growth situation but that one has predictable income in the future. It is precisely for this reason that a prudent production charge, as described by the Centre Party, makes sense instead of making the country rich in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2484	I do not want to go out the debate any particular, but the Central Party and the representative Pollestad are so concerned about where this tax, if any, will go. Just before the Committee gave its opinion, there were six questions raised by the Committee. These have been answered. I believe that the chairman of the committee has read the answers It says that the basic rate of interest in the petroleum industry and the power industry is State taxes. Formally, there is nothing wrong with the fact that a rent tax can also go to municipalities and county municipalities. But the head of the nutrition committee is standing here, almost firm, drawing a theory that it is almost impossible even if the answer has come from the Ministry of Finance. I have answered, but the Ministry of Finance has prepared the answers. I have to be allowed to say about this about renting out: if you actually want these municipalities well, if you want these municipalities to have predictability and a fair share of what the aquaculture industry creates, you also have to set up a government rental scheme, which otherwise the Storting did not want in 2015. That is when you wanted to keep the system that exists today - the allowance system or the concession system. It works well as long as you can take care of all the actors in the aquaculture industry. Again it is repeated that municipalities must have their legitimate share of what is created. We all agree, but what is the legitimate share? How much are the municipalities going to get from that growth? In bags and bags, I understand – in many. But I believe that as we approach Christmas, perhaps the wording will be slightly different from the rapporteurs in all these municipalities, which will then be added between 2 billion. kr and 2,5 br. kr, which is, incidentally, more growth than the total growth of free income for municipalities in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2492	We have to look at what we're really discussing about the legitimate share of what's being created. I think the reasonable size now does, will prove to give us some good answers that take considerable consideration of the industry in the future in order to manage this potential – the growth that we want, and that in turn will bring much more revenue to the municipalities, while maintaining sustainability and the municipalities get their rightful share.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2495	I just think it was a little important to take the word again, because those who do not vote for the majority's proposal here are trying to doubt what actually lies in it. It's a little unfortunate, as everyone here, I think, initially has one purpose in this case: to secure the municipalities an income in the future that will be predictable and independent of growth. It's very clear in the investigation mandate. It's not the government that's going to rule it out, it's a party sample that's going to rule it out. Then the government will properly evaluate the investigation and make a proposition for the Storting. The government wrote ‘ground interest’ in the revised national budget, but now there is a different conclusion on the table, from which the Stortinget asks the Council of State to launch an investigation. On the contrary, it states not only rent on land but also taxes on production and rent on land/resources. One of the objectives of the investigation is that host municipalities should ensure stable and predictable annual incomes for the use of the land and to facilitate new land and for the non-growth farming industry. More clearly, it really cannot be said. That's why I think it's a pity – we may disagree on the matter – that someone is trying to put this into doubt. Now that we're going to use Norway's public investigations as a basis for this, I don't think it can in any way be a bad solution to a levy that hopefully will last over time and secure these municipalities stable and predictable revenues. I think it's going to be a little slow to go that far. But just to be quite clear: the assumption now is that everyone in Stortinget – a total big deal, really – is for a fee and for a predictable fee to the municipalities. It's a significant change from last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2502	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2518	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2529	The case is based on a proposal from the representative of Bjørn Moxnes on state ownership, where he among other things. is in favour of asking the government to ensure that state ownership is used to promote stronger standards for climate, environment, working life, openness and local democracy, including abroad, and he asks the government to ensure that Norwegian state-owned enterprises comply with local laws on the environment and working life. An overall committee refers to the exercise of State ownership in a professional and predictable manner within the framework of Norwegian law and other legislation, and also points out that there has been broad agreement on the State's exercise of its ownership through three ownership notifications. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, points out that the government has notified a new communication of ownership and therefore considers that the intentions of the proposer will be safeguarded by this process, which will give a complete consideration to the very policy of ownership. In view of this, it is recommended by a unanimous committee on the Stortinget that the proposal by the representative of the Bjørna Moxnes on State ownership not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2538	I would like to congratulate the proposer on addressing this issue. That's an important question. We also get a statement later in the week on Hydro-saka in Brazil, which forms the basis for this proposal. For the Central Party, and I believe that most of the parties in the Committee, we look forward to getting ownership messages from the government and to discussing these questions in a larger context and with the background of the government's message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2545	This is an important question. We in SV have attacked the case in a slightly different way. We were the ones who in their time got the case raised on the Control and Constitutional Committee, and that's the background for the distribution we're going to get on Thursday. We also tried to raise the matter in the nutrition committee, but there was no formal ability to raise it. It was the initiative that the Control Committee has – to the extent that the Trade Committee could, but that was the case – that led to our being given a distribution. It's especially Hydro-saka in Brazil that's the back carpet here. I mean, what we were missing at the time we went to the trial was simply to get a best knowledge base from the state that owns this question. We're going to get that. Then there'll be a rather close discussion in the committee towards attitude. The second part of the subject matter is the requirements to apply to Norwegian companies abroad. There is an ownership message that is – even with its missing – extremely clear. The same requirements shall apply to the environment, to the rights, to human rights, etc., laid down in the ownership principle in the Ownership Notice, whether the company operates in Norway or abroad. For us in SV, Hydro-saka is a particularly important case, so to speak, to see if it actually matches reality. We get a strong impression through our networks that this is not the case, that one does not meet the standards you have set. Therefore, Hydro-saka will be an important test of whether an actual follow-up to the decisions taken by the Storting. When it comes to this proposal for a representative, the information from the distribution to the Minister of Industry is not included, and it will be difficult to go further. When it comes to the general principles of ownership, I think it's more than what is in the proposal itself that in that case has to be raised, among other things. human rights, which is absolutely fundamental to the issue in Barcarena, Brazil — to which we come back on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2556	Next speaker, the Bears of the Moxnes. The president's asking you to use the speaker's chair up here. If you have a short comment, it's okay to take it down, but initially you prefer to keep the numbers from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2564	All right, President! Hydro is in a crisis in Brazil. Alumina refinery Alunorte, which Hydro owns 90 pst. of which, now produces for half machine. This has been done for several months since illegal emissions from the refinery were detected. Hydro is in conflict with Brazilian authorities. They have now realised that they should have had better dialogue with the community and have also promised investments of 0.5 billion. kr in new sewage treatment plant in the future. Emissions that have contaminated drinking water to 400 families may not come from Hydro’s facilities, but when Hydro invests in one of the world’s most polluted areas, in one of the world’s most violent countries and in an area of great poverty, it commits. And it seems that Hydro is now taking the consequences of. At the same time, the crisis in Hydro is not the first time that state-owned companies conflict with social responsibility. The corruption case in Yara, VimpelCom scandal involving Telenor, Statoil's oil sands, DNB and Panama Papers are all examples of inadequate social responsibility. In our view, then, there is a need for a tightening of the way in which companies are governed, so that social responsibility is cared for in a thorough and good way. The Council of State shall report to the Government on the state's actions in the Alumorte case on Thursday. Redly asked that our proposal be dealt with after the Council of State has stated. The other parties did not want that. I find it strange that they do not want to hear about the situation from the Council of State until they are dealing with and rejecting our proposal today. Enterprises where the state is a major owner create jobs throughout our country and are often corner stone farms in the community. Hydro’s aluminium production in Norway receives all its raw material from Alumorte in Brazil. That is why it is in our own interest and in the interest of the people of Alumorte that the situation should be resolved, but it should never, of course, occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2576	We note that the Committee wants a state ownership based on social responsibility and sustainability, and that the majority assumes that the intention of our proposal is respected when the government presents a new ownership message. I'm looking forward to the Stortinge getting from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2579	For me, it is obvious that all companies, including companies with State ownership, comply with local laws and regulations in which they operate. This applies to all laws and regulations. So the proposal says that the government should ensure that state ownership is used to promote stronger standards abroad, and I also agree with the main content of it. We have high expectations of state-owned companies, including abroad. But then there is a problem with the use of the word ‘safe’. If you look at the frameworks provided by the law, principles and role-sharing agreed by the Storting, it is not possible to guarantee this in the correct sense of the word. That being said, the government has a expectation that companies with State ownership will be in charge in their areas of sustainability. It is also a contribution to promoting stronger standards abroad. I feel that we in this room agree on the framework of state ownership, also on how the state should exercise its ownership. And as the majority point out, there is an opportunity to have opinions about it once again in the new ownership message being presented. This means that we agree that state ownership should be exercised within the framework of company law and generally accepted ownership management principles, that the management of the company is the responsibility of the board, and that the state that owns its interests is the responsibility of the board through the general meeting and through well-combined governments. As owner, it is our responsibility to assess how the board exercises its responsibilities and meets the expectations expressed by the state. My clear expectation is that Norwegian companies, both private and state ownership, often have better standards than those in challenging markets. That doesn't mean there can't be any wrong or bad events. What is important is that you work systematically to reduce risks, and that you show the ability to learn and to correct any mistakes. Other jobs The Ministry of Economic Affairs is continuously developing dialogue with the companies on the exercise of ownership. In the context of a new ownership message, we will assess the further development of ownership policy as societal developments take place, and debates that help to shed light on key issues that will also be identified there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2601	I agree that this is an incredibly important matter. Ethics and morality, or social responsibility, shall not be changed because one crosses a border or goes from one region to another. From Stortinget and into the ownership message, these principles are very clearly established. Therefore, it is exciting to attend new discussions in relation to the ownership message. And that's when I wondered, when is this coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2608	What we have just said is that we aim for in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2614	Although it's a while before we get the ownership message, I'll still challenge the Council of State on one thing, if we can get a little taste of it. It's about what happens when there are examples of companies where the state is the main owner, who violate social responsibility and who are responsible for mistakes. We've seen examples of this, as I mentioned in my main post -- both with Statoil, with Telenor and now with Hydro. One thing is ownership dialogue, but is it such that there should be some consequences for those responsible in the boards when there may be clear violations of social responsibility and of what are the expectations of the state that owns how companies should behave abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2621	If I then emphasize that my answer will be a general answer, and not linked to any of the specific things that the representative Moxnes mentions: Of course, if you had thought of a theoretical situation where a government acted completely across what was Stortinget’s – and thus the Ministry’s – adopted instruction on how to act as a state-owned joint company, it will of course have consequences for the board. But the important thing here is to separate two different problems. The Board of Directors is responsible for the day-to-day operations, the responsibility for the company. So what the department does – and this is once again anchored in what the Storting has joined – is, first of all, through the ownership follow-up to ask questions along the way, investigate, hear how the company handles things, but also assess how the boards handle their responsibilities as controllers. And then there are a number of occasions in a company’s year – at least one occasion – where you can see whether it has consequences. But it is, as I said, a general answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2630	The reason I took a reply was that I noticed in the Council's opinion that his impression was that Norwegian state-owned companies abroad often behaved better than the companies in the countries in which they operated. It made me think about a matter we had earlier that was about the National Audit Office's review of the state ownership. It was found that the reporting from the companies to the state – including the report from the state – was deficient in a very important area. It was not deficient when there was a blazing report of results and the financial aspects, etc., but it was deficient when there was a blazing responsibility for society. Sociable responsibility is, as we know, a wide range of things, which Storting has spent a considerable amount of time discussing up and down, what should remain, etc. When the Council of State thinks he has knowledge of this, I ask: What kind of reporting is it when he refers to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2635	The representative of Knag County describes the matter in the National Audit Office in a slightly different way than I can remember it, to say it that way. What the Riksrevision pointed out was particularly related to the Category 3 companies, but mainly to the Category 4 companies, i.e. the companies in which the State is incorporated, not only because it is necessary to have the highest possible return – within a sustainable framework, of course – but also where it has a social purpose of ownership. What the Riksrevision pointed out was that that part of the Ministry's ownership exercise could be worked on more. It was also what caused the representative of Knag Fylkesnes to go out and call the state ownership a scandal – no, sorry, he said it was in crisis, but not the representative of Knag Fylkesnes – which he did not repeat in the main hall. This may indicate that it is easier to put in large words when there can be a headline in a newspaper than actually to put it in the main hall as a debate argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2642	I can do it now, but I'm just going to say first that there's a lot of "scandal" with this representative, but I don't use the word "scandal" about the Norwegian state ownership. But I actually mean that audit report showed a very great weakness in state ownership. The size has given clear guidance on what to expect to be reported, but there is a major lack. One must also be able to say that all parts of Norwegian ownership are subject to the principle of ownership notification. Therefore, my question is: When one gets this impression that the Council of State gives, that one is better than other companies in the countries in which one operates – what kind of reporting is what he refers to? Where does he get that impression?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2649	It is quite right, as the representative Fylkesnes says, that all the companies in which the state has a holding are companies that we expect to be in charge of, for example, HMS standards and in sustainability and responsible operation. It is certainly possible to find many reports that show this too, but I don't think you need to go as deep into the research as the representative County wants me to do now, in order to conclude that it has the assumption that Norwegian companies operating in demanding markets, as I write, i.e. in countries that have a completely different social, economic, cultural and political situation than us, basically have labour standards, HMS standards and anti-corruption standards that are different and higher than those that dominate local business. That was my claim. If the representative wants source references, it can certainly be obtained.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2656	I'm just hungry for knowledge, and as a former minister of knowledge, he probably understands that, because I think it has to be covered with something and not just a general impression. The Council of State may be right, but I think that when you say it so clearly, there is actually a system of reporting and knowledge that makes one have the basis for such an opinion. But it may seem that there is more than one impression, and not something that has actually been reported to the country that owns it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2661	Now I'm not going to suggest anything to any representatives, but it would probably be easy to get a good source of documentation on this if you like. submit a written question. But, of course, it has the assumption – not that Norwegian companies, whether they are fully private or partly state-owned, are perfect or optimal or never make mistakes or can never make even gross mistakes. But, of course, the assumption is that Norwegian companies also have some of the standards that we are used to in Norway. In addition, when we say, with the support of the Storting – otherwise after the same line that the previous government held – that they should be leading, it has the assumption that this is something Norwegian companies are concerned about. This is also something that is being asked about, and to which the department asks for feedback. Otherwise, I have to say that it also applies to wholly private-owned companies, also because of course it has a cost if you do something wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2675	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I would like to raise one point on which I responded. I would like to remind the President that the two interlocutors of the Storting are completely equal – the one who signed it now stands on the floor and the one on the floor. It is up to the representatives themselves to choose which speaker they want to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2680	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 9 and 10 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2711	I would first like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in these two matters. As the President explained, through this proposition from the government, we are examining both proposals for decisions on consent to the approval of the EEA Committee's Decision No. 22/2018 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of EU Regulation 910/2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market, and the law implementing the EU Regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market, the law on electronic trust services. In this proposal, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries proposes a new law to implement the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council already adopted in 2014. This Regulation shall facilitate increased electronic interaction between traders, citizens and public authorities across borders across the EU/EEA, thus enhancing economic growth in the internal market. It replaces the former eSignature Directive. It facilitates increased electronic interaction between traders, citizens and public authorities across EU/EEA borders. It extends the area of regulation of electronic trust services compared to the scope of the eSignature Directive and reinforces current rules on electronic signature. The harmonisation of requirements for several types of trust services may facilitate the cross-border provision of such services. Furthermore, stricter requirements may increase trust among users. It also facilitates the cross-border use of eID solutions that fulfil certain conditions. This proposition has been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation, which is responsible for the follow-up to the Regulation’s provisions on the mutual recognition of eIDs, eSignature and electronic seals in the public sector. The Ministry considers that the Regulation is an important tool in the digitisation process and that it will help to create security and trust in the network. The new legislation shall ensure a common European framework for the regulation of electronic signature and trust services and promote cross-border cooperation within the EU/EEA. Increased use of cross-country electronic communications will provide more efficient interaction, and in this way the Regulation is expected to contribute to stronger economic growth in the internal market. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the course of our examination of the legislative proposal, the Committee was made aware that the term ‘information security service’ in the bill had been used in an incubation, rather than the term ‘trust service’. The term ‘information security service’ was used when the legislative proposal was open to consultation, but the term ‘trust service’ was later considered to be more comprehensive and linguistically understandable. The concept of trust service has been used throughout the proposition text, but was not changed in the legislative proposal itself. That amendment has been incorporated by the Food and Agriculture Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2726	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2742	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2751	Adequate broadband coverage is important in a modern society, which is increasingly digitised and access to stable and good broadband communications is a prerequisite for individuals, businesses and governments. Today’s limited access to broadband communications in the north is a challenge for residents, businesses and not least the performance of security and preparedness-related authority tasks. So it's a necessary and prolonged grip that's now being taken to give luck's broadband coverage north of 65th parallel. In the proposition we are now dealing with, the government is proposing to give Space Norway AS, which is a state-owned sector policy company, the task of realising a planned project to strengthen satellite communications with panoramic coverage in the northern regions. Space Norway is planning to set up an entire-time subsidiary, called HEO AS, to acquire, own and operate two satellites in high-elliptic orbits and associated ground infrastructure. In order to ensure planned progress in the project, Space Norway is asking for a conditional commitment to equity. The government proposes that such a contingent commitment of equity be granted, limited up to 139 million. US dollars, in line with Space Norway's request to the owner. The amount is approximately 1,1 billion. kr. It is an overall committee which today endorses both the technological and organisational solutions and the commitment to equity, so that Space Norway AS can complete the negotiations in order to realise the project and establish satellite-based capacity for broadband communications in the northern regions. Furthermore, the Committee considers that it is important to ensure good progress in the project and that the government has to return to the Storting if compliance with the criteria set for the undertaking authorisation creates disproportionate delays in the progress of the project. In this context, it is also important to remember that the Norwegian space industry is internationally competitive and is a high-tech industry growing. The value creation per employee is among the highest in the Norwegian mainland industry, and the Norwegian space industry has an export share of about 90 pst. The programme for satellite communications in the northern regions will provide Norwegian industry with valuable competences, value creation and references for future competitions globally. In such a comprehensive Norwegian industrial investment as this, the Christian People’s Party believes that Space Norway and its subsidiary ‘HEO AS’ should focus on seeking Norwegian industry as a provider of solutions and services in those areas where the Norwegian space cluster has international advantages and future ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2770	The northern regions are Norway's most important strategic area. In order to safeguard our interests in these vast areas, it requires presence and presence. Housing, economic activity, the exercise of authority and physical infrastructure are all elements constituting the necessary presence and presence of the nation of Norway. The Nordgebiet initiative covers a wide range of sectors and is an important policy of interest both at regional, national and, to some extent, at international level. While Norway has been in the north, for many years there has been a growing interest in the north and the Arctic from other countries outside the region. Today there are no good communication solutions north of about 71° north, because the satellites get below the horizon when you are so far north. It has consequences. We saw that, for example. last November, in the event of the helicopter accident outside Barentsburg, when the lack of communication capabilities made the search and rescue operation difficult. This is why two years ago, the undersigned and several other representatives presented a proposal for a swift solution to the situation. It took longer than we had imagined was necessary. Norway has been an Arctic power – not because we have the greatest military forces, or because we have the most people, or because we have the largest economy. We've been an Arctic power because we've had activities, eventually also presence and presence on a permanent basis. For the last ten years, we've been an Arctic power because we've been able to have a political agenda and a will. This is the case we are dealing with today – not primarily in a market-based thinking. This is about a necessary and critical infrastructure to safeguard our national strategic interests in the northern regions by facilitating the settlement, economic activities and the exercise of authority in 2018 and in the coming years. Almost all activities will be dependent on digital communication. Today, most maritime activities in the north are in the Norwegian sector. We need to continue to facilitate its development and to be competitive. For both these reasons and to meet the needs of the defence, it is important to provide a solution for communication in the north as soon as possible. In my opinion, we have a clear national strategic interest that is justified beyond what the government proposes in the proposition. The solution that is now being chosen must also be open. I would like to underline that to those who are going to operate this and put it into practice: there must be room to commercialise capacity, there must be room to develop cooperation with others, especially Arctic nations, and not least we must be open to solutions being completed with other or new technologies. Although it has taken a long time, there is room to congratulate Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2795	There is a cross-political consensus that the northern regions are very important in Norwegian foreign and security policy. The Nordgebiet initiative covers a wide range of sectors and is an important policy of interest both at regional and national level. The case concerns broadband communications in the north. This is an important issue from a north-eastern perspective. 80 per cent of ship traffic in the Arctic is in Norwegian waters. At the same time, it is important for sovereignty enhancement, research, climate and environmental monitoring and search and rescue operations. A robust communication system could also facilitate further value creation in the northern regions. Space Norway's project is based on a two-satellite solution, which will provide 24 hours a day in the area north of latitude 65. Being assured such coverage around the clock is absolutely essential for, among other things. preparedness in North Norway. Unfortunately, the coverage is not good enough today to take care of, among other things. marine rescue, oil preparedness and crisis management. The centre party will work to ensure that all parts of the country are well prepared. In addition to satellites, the system will consist of a ground station and a satellite control centre. These elements will be located in Norway and thus ensure national control of the system. For the Centre Party, it is very important that we have national control over this type of critical infrastructure. The centre party has been impatient in this matter for a long time. It is important that the equity commitments of Space Norway are made quickly so that the project can be implemented as planned. I am therefore pleased that with today's decision we come a step closer to the realization of a project that is very important to all of us in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2808	Many of the main features of the case are well explained, including: by the President-in-Office, so I will not repeat them. But I want to elaborate on a couple of points. Space Norway's business case offers to meet both the needs of the civil sector and the defence. The project has been set up as a civil-military public-private international cooperation. It is a demanding project, but also a very exciting project. The Storting considers that a conditional commitment to Space Norway AS to equity is limited up to 139 million. dollar, so that the company can complete negotiations to realize the project. The undertaking shall be given on condition that: the project is not initiated until contracts with customers that ensure an income flow throughout the project period have been concluded; all clients shall cover their share of the investment costs and operating costs; the project is not initiated without: the project generates the desired return adequate liquidity is ensured throughout the duration of the project; the project takes care of the military broadband needs of the defence under Norwegian control I am pleased that the Business Committee supports the action. Broad political agreement on the solutions now available is good. The project is by no means the country yet, but it is now up to Space Norway to negotiate good agreements with customers, suppliers and banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2844	I notice that the Council of State said that the project has not landed. It's all right, but this is a topic that's probably about something more than communication in the northern regions, which itself is unusually important. It is also about the possibilities for further development of the Norwegian space industry. When we read the proposition, we can't see that it's mentioned or included in the case, but for the Workers' Party, it's important that it facilitates this. We miss that as said in the proposition, and therefore I will ask the Council of State: how will the Council of State facilitate the project to contribute to industrial development in Norway, and how will he ensure that Space Norway facilitates the participation of Norwegian suppliers in the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2849	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative of Aasland that this is also an important investment for the Norwegian space industry, where central parts are just to contribute to e.g.. this type of infrastructure. Then we're working on our own strategy, space strategy, which the Storting has also asked for, which is at work now, where also this and what context it's in, are natural to come back to. I have to admit that it is difficult for me to answer on a standing basis whether there are any requirements or regulations etc. related to the use of Norwegian subcontractors in this project. Just in order not to provide incorrect information, I dare not now give a bastant answer to that, but will ask to get back to that very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2856	I noticed that the Council of State underlined that this is a public-private cooperation, OPS. I agree, because what can be commercialised should be commercialised. It is obvious that the satellites will have large capacity, so that it is also interesting to sell surplus capacity in a market and thus get allocated costs. But in my post, I raised the question of international cooperation, because there are eight Arctic nations, and we all have an interest in the fact that there are good communication opportunities and good opportunities for broadband telecommunication. Will the Council of State ensure that initiatives are taken to determine how to allow other Arctic nations or other nations with an interest in the northern regions to contribute to an even better solution than its own Norwegian project?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2862	That's a good question, but maybe a little bit on the page, because Space Norway is a state-owned company, but it's a commercial project. This is a project that builds up infrastructure and will provide dramatically much better broadband coverage, which is also important in order to achieve important Norwegian targets such as northerly sovereignty, maritime control and greater opportunities, for example. disclosing poaching. But it's a commercial project, and that's some reason why we can put up the project this way. It also means that Space Norway is now out looking not only for customers or partners in Norway, but also widely, from several countries. As I mentioned, there are several assumptions here that this money is placed in this way by the government, and therefore also by Stortinget. If it doesn't work out, we have to look at the problem again from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2867	I thank you for the answer, but as the Council of State itself writes in the proposition, this is not just a commercial project. We also have national interests. And to refer again to my own post – I believe that our national interests are somewhat broader than they are described in the proposition, where only defence national interests are referred to. I agree with the Council of State that we should take care of the commercial aspects of this. My question was whether he was interested in looking at the possibilities to expand the strategic importance, to share the costs with good partners in the north from the other Arctic nations. But I heard what the council said in its answer, so I want to pursue the answer also after Aasland's reply. I understand that the Council of State cannot respond fully to how, but the presence and monitoring of the north areas require telecommunications. That's what we're going to get in place. Will the Council of State take the initiative to look at how to develop Norwegian technology to be more present in a holistic way in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2872	Just back to the previous question: As I see the representative asking the question, the answer to that is yes. Are we interested in seeing what national interests this project can pursue? Yes, it is also described. Are we also interested in having other parties that can benefit from this? Yes. Could it be other parties that are not purely commercial, i.e. private companies? Yeah, there's also a chance of that, of course. And then, of course, we don't just have an interest in, but we're also working on, as I said, a comprehensive space policy, just to be able to take advantage of Norwegian technology advantages where we already have good environments, and invest more in technology, which can also provide more jobs. It is a well-known case that many of the most exciting environments for space research and space solutions are located in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2877	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 12-17 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2953	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e2965	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3437	It shall be counted against A I to VII and IX. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3451	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3456	Then we'll correct. The number of votes in favour shall then be 102 votes in favour and 1 against. It is votted over A VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3468	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3483	This vote thinks the President we have to retake.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3495	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3827	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3837	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3846	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left the proposals No 7-11, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] It shall be amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 14-9 is replaced by the following: § 14-9 Permanent and temporary employment Employees are to be hired permanently. [[1]] For the purposes of this Act, permanent employment means that employment is continuous and unlimited, that the rules of the Act on termination of employment apply, and that workers are guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment. Periodically employed workers shall be guaranteed predictability of working time and free of work.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3890	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] It shall be amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 14-9 is replaced by the following: § 14-9 Permanent and temporary employment The employee shall be permanently employed. For the purposes of this Act, permanent employment means that employment is continuous and unlimited, that the rules of the Act on termination of employment apply and that workers are guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment.» The Socialist Left Party has announced that they are no longer behind this proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3918	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the consequences, in particular for the health and care services as defined by the Patient and User Rights Act § 1-3(d), in terms of flexibility in day-to-day operation and continuous access to qualified staff in vicariates, whose recruitment agencies must, as a general rule, have permanent staff. The investigation shall be submitted to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner before the law enters into force and no later than the end of 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3933	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to seek an exemption from the general rule on permanent employment in the Working Environment Act § 14-9, first paragraph, for temporary agency companies which provide authorised health professionals to vicariates, in particular in the light of the EU Temporary Agency Directive and other EEA legislation. The investigation shall be submitted to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner before the law enters into force and no later than the end of 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3948	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a follow-up evaluation of the new rental rules in order to identify the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, institutions and businesses throughout the country.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3966	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of how the manning industry works with inclusion after the tightening up of access to temporary employment in manning enterprises.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e3983	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 10-5, first paragraph, third sentence, is deleted. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 14-2 is replaced by the following: This does not apply, however, to workers temporarily employed in the Vicariat according to Section 14-9, second paragraph, point (b). Section 14-6, first paragraph, point (j) is replaced by the following: j) the length and location of the daily and weekly working hours. If the work is to be carried out periodically, the contract of employment shall determine or provide a basis for calculating when the work is to be carried out. Paragraphs 14 to 9 of the other paragraphs of the seventh paragraph are replaced by the following: § 14-9 Permanent and temporary employment Agreement on temporary employment may, however, be concluded: [[2]] a. when work is of a temporary nature b. for work instead of another or other c. for practical work [[viariat]] d. with a participant in labour market measures under the auspices of or in cooperation with the seat of employment and welfare e. with sportsmen, athletes, judges and other leaders of organised sport. The employer shall, at least once a year, discuss the use of temporary employment in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph with the trustees, including the basis and extent of such employment, as well as the impact on the working environment. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on temporary employment for practical work and on the types of labour market measures covered by point (d) of the second subparagraph. [[3]] [[4]] National employee organisation may conclude a collective agreement with an employer or an employer association on access to temporary employment within a specified employee group to perform artistic, research or sports work. If the collective bargaining agreement is binding on a majority of employees within a specified working group in the establishment, the employer may, under the same conditions, enter into a temporary contract with other employees who are required to carry out similar work. [[5]] Employees who have been employed for more than one year are entitled to written notice of the date of resignation not later than one month before the date of retirement. This does not, however, apply to participants in labour market measures covered by the third subparagraph, as set out in the third subparagraph. the second subparagraph, point (d). The warning shall be deemed to have been given when the worker has been identified. In the event of failure to comply with the deadline, the employer may not require the worker to leave within one month of the notification. [[6]] Temporary employment contracts shall cease at the end of the agreed period or at the end of the specific work, unless otherwise agreed in writing or provided for in the collective bargaining agreement. During the contractual period, the rules of the law on termination of employment apply. [[7]] Employees who have been in continuous temporary employment for more than four years after point (a) of the second subparagraph or for more than three years after point (b) of the second subparagraph shall be deemed to be permanently employed in such a way that the rules on termination of employment apply. The same applies to employees who have been in continuous temporary employment for more than three years following points (a) and (b) in combination. For the purposes of calculating working time, no deduction shall be made from the absence of the employee. Paragraphs 14-11 are replaced by the following: Effects of infringements of the rules on permanent and temporary employment Paragraphs 14 to 11 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: If there is a breach of the provisions of Sections 14 to 9 or 14 to 10, the court shall, on application by the employee, give judgment to the existence of a permanent employment relationship or to the continuation of the employment relationship, in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 14 to 9. [[1]] However, in exceptional cases, the court may, on application by the employer, decide that the employment relationship shall cease if, after weighing the interests of the parties, it considers that continuing employment would be manifestly unfair. Paragraphs 14 to 12 are replaced by the following: Paragraphs 14-12. Renting from activities for the purpose of renting Renting of workers from activities for the purpose of renting is permitted to the extent that temporary employment can be agreed under point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9. [[(employee) (1)]] At the request of the manning undertaking, the lessee shall disclose whether the lessee relates to a vikariat. [[3]] Only permanent employees in 100 pst. employment in a manning undertaking is entitled to the average calculation of working time on an independent basis, as set out in: Paragraphs 10 to 5. Part-time staff in manning enterprises may follow the working time arrangements of the hiring-in activity. [[4]] The employer shall at least once per years discuss the use of contracted labour after the first and second paragraphs, including the practice of the requirement of non-discrimination, with those elected to trust. [[5]] In the case of rentals under this paragraph, the rules of Sections 14 to 9 of the seventh paragraph apply mutatis mutandis. [[6]] The Ministry may, by regulation, prohibit the hiring-in of certain categories of workers or in certain areas where important social considerations so warrant. [[7]] Professional association having members of an establishment which has hired workers from temporary staff undertakings may bring proceedings in its own name on the legality of such hiring. In connection with such a case, both parties will have the right to require negotiations in line with the rules of Section 17-3. Paragraphs 14-14, first paragraph, first sentence, shall be replaced by the following: If there is a breach of the provisions of Sections 14 to 12, the court shall, on application by the hired worker, give judgment that the lessee has a fixed employment relationship with the lessee in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 14 to 9. [[1]] The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 18-6 is replaced by the following: the Labour Inspectorate imposes on them and takes the individual decisions necessary for the implementation of the provisions of Sections 1 to 7, Chapter 2 of Chapter 11, as well as Sections 14 to 1 (a), 14 to 5 (a), 14 to 8 (a), 14 to 9 (b) and 14 to 9 (c) of the second paragraph of the last sentence of Section 14 to 12 (a), 14 to 15 (c) and Sections 15 to 15. [[1]] II The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. For the second paragraph of Section 14-12, transitional rules for contracts concluded before the final decision of the Grand Duchy shall be applied from 1 January 2019 until 1 July 2019.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4160	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4379	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4400	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4412	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 You, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 10-5 is replaced by the following: The agreement following this paragraph may not be concluded with a worker temporarily employed on the basis of point (f) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9 of the second paragraph of Section 14-2: this does not apply to a worker temporarily employed in the territory of Section 14-9, second paragraph, point (b). Paragraph 14-6, first paragraph, point (j) is replaced by the following: If the work is to be carried out periodically, the contract of employment shall determine or provide a basis for calculating when the work is to be carried out. § 14-9 is replaced by the following: § 14-9 Permanent and temporary employment Employees are to be hired permanently. [[1]] For the purposes of this Act, permanent employment means that employment is continuous and unlimited, that the rules of the Act on termination of employment apply, and that workers are guaranteed predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment. [[2]] However, temporary contracts may be concluded (a) where the work is of a temporary nature (b) for work instead of another or other (c) for practical work (d) with the participant in labour market measures under the auspices of or in cooperation with the seat of employment and welfare (e) with sportsmen, sports trainers, judges and other leaders in the organised sport Employer shall discuss at least once a year the use of temporary employment under the provisions of this paragraph with the members of the board of directors, including the basis and extent of such employment, as well as the impact on the working environment. [[viariat]] [[3]] The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on temporary employment for practical work and on the types of labour market measures covered by point (d) of the second subparagraph. [[4]] National employee organisation may conclude a collective agreement with an employer or an employer association on access to temporary employment within a specified employee group to perform artistic, research or sports work. If the collective bargaining agreement is binding on a majority of employees within a specified working group in the establishment, the employer may, under the same conditions, enter into a temporary contract with other employees who are required to carry out similar work. [[5]] Employees who have been employed for more than one year are entitled to written notice of the date of resignation not later than one month before the date of retirement. This does not, however, apply to participants in labour market measures covered by the third subparagraph, as set out in the third subparagraph. the second subparagraph, point (d). The warning shall be deemed to have been given when the worker has been reached. In the event of failure to comply with the deadline, the employer may not require the worker to leave within one month of the notification. However, the fourth sentence shall not provide grounds for employment beyond 12 months of employment under the second subparagraph, point (f). Temporary employment contracts shall cease at the end of the agreed period or, when the particular work is completed, unless otherwise agreed in writing or provided for in the collective bargaining agreement. [[6]] [[7]] During the contractual period, the rules of the law on termination of employment apply. Employees who have been in continuous temporary employment for more than four years after point (a) of the second subparagraph or for more than three years after points (b) and (f) of the second subparagraph shall be deemed to be permanently employed in such a way that the rules on termination of employment apply. The same applies to employees who have been in continuous temporary employment for more than three years after the second subparagraph, points (a), (b) or (f) in combination. [[8]] For the purposes of calculating working time, no deduction shall be made from the absence of the employee. The rules set out in this subparagraph shall apply to the employment referred to in point (f) of the second subparagraph for the same type of work within the establishment. The employer may count as own enterprises units with at least 50 employees. When an employee temporarily employed under point (f) of the second subparagraph does not receive further employment at the end of the contractual period, a period of 12 months starts for the employer. During the quarantine period, the employer may not make new appointments as referred to in the first sentence. [[1]] Paragraphs 14-11 of the heading are replaced by the following: The effects of infringements of the rules on permanent and temporary employment § 14-11 first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: If there is a breach of the provisions of Sections 14-9 or 14-10, the right shall, on application by the employee, be grounded for the existence of a permanent employment relationship or for the continuation of the employment relationship, in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 14-9. However, in exceptional cases, the court may, on application by the employer, decide that the employment relationship shall cease if, after weighing the interests of the parties, it considers that continuing employment would be manifestly unfair. In the event of a breach of the allowance provision in point (f) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9, the court may give judgment after the first sentence where specific reasons so require. [[1]] Paragraph 14-12, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Renting of employees from activities for the purpose of renting is permitted to the extent that temporary employment can be agreed under points (a) to (e) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9. [[4]] At the request of the manning undertaking, the lessee shall disclose whether the lessee relates to a vikariat. [[1]] The fourth paragraph of Section 14-12 is replaced by the following: In the case of rents made under this paragraph, the rules of Sections 14 to 9 apply mutatis mutandis. Paragraphs 14-14, first paragraph, first sentence, shall be replaced by the following: If there is a breach of the provisions of Sections 14 to 12, the court shall, on application by the hired worker, give judgment that the lessee has a fixed employment relationship with the lessee in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 14 to 9. [[1]] The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 18-6 is replaced by the following: the Labour Inspectorate imposes and takes the individual decisions otherwise necessary for the implementation of the provisions in and in accordance with Sections 1 to 7, Chapter 2 of Chapter 11, and Sections 14 to 1 to 5 to 14-8, Section 14 to 9 of the second paragraph, point (f) of the second sentence and the second paragraph, Section 14 to 12 of the second paragraph, second sentence, Section 14 to 12 of the third paragraph, Section 14 to 15 of the fifth paragraph, and Sections 15 to 15 of the second paragraph.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4519	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 14-12 second paragraph is replaced by the following: In the course of activities linked to a collective bargaining agreement concluded with a trade union with the right to set off under the Employment Dispute Act, the employer and the trustees representing together a majority of the category of employees to which the lease-in relates may enter into a written agreement on fixed-term lease-in without prejudice to what is provided for in the first subparagraph. [[2]] The establishment and the manning undertaking shall, at the request of the Labour Inspectorate, provide evidence that the lease-in activity is bound by a collective agreement concluded with the trade union with the right to set-aside and that the trustees referred to in the first sentence have been agreed.’;» The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4552	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 II, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Il the Law shall enter into force from the time of the king's decision. For the second paragraph of Section 14-12, transitional rules for existing agreements shall apply from the entry into force of the Act and for a period of 6 months.’ All parties have now announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4567	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. point (f) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9 is amended as follows: (f) for a period of up to 12 months. Such agreements may cover up to 15 per cent of the employees of the establishment, rounded up, but may be concluded with at least one employee. II The law shall come into force from the time of the king's decision." The Right, the Progressive Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4589	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4599	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for a control function to be supervised, to impose and to take individual decisions to implement the provisions of the Working Environment Act § 1-7, Chapter 2 of Chapter 11, as well as §§ 14-1 a, 14-5 to 14-8, § 14-9 second paragraph (f) second sentence and the second paragraph of the last sentence, § 14-12, § 14-12 a, § 14-15 fifth paragraph and §§ 15-2 and 15-15. The proposal for the control function shall be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’;» All parties have now announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4620	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. is amended as follows: Paragraph 1-7 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: posted worker means a worker working for a period of up to 30 days in a country other than that to which the employment relates. [[1]] II The law shall apply from 1 July 2018.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4659	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By the end of 2018, the government is asked to present a case clarifying the legislation for posted workers, including which of the provisions of the Working Environment Act may apply from the first day for posted workers.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4685	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4701	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the update of the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea to establish a petroleum-free area in a radius of 100 kilometres around the Bear Island and, pending this, not to allocate blocks in the area’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to authorise petroleum activities in any of the blocks in which the Norwegian Polar Institute, the Environment Directorate or the Marine Research Institute has ceased such activities during the 24th concession round.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4734	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to allow petroleum activity in areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable in the management plan system because of their natural values’.» [[SVO]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to draw the allocations of block 6307/2 and block 6307/5, cf. Paragraphs 10 to 13 of the Petroleum Act which regulate the revocation of an extraction permit.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the timing of a marine protection plan with the aim of meeting international marine protection obligations in line with the Aichi objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to initiate petroleum activity in areas included as Marine Protection Candidate Areas surveyed in 2004’.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4768	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4776	The Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4792	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State Budget for 2019 to establish a demonstration park for sea wind with a related support regime that realises that different concepts and technologies are being tested.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4809	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4814	Then we'll correct. The correct number of votes is 94 votes against and 9 votes in favour of the Socialist Left. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4819	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4844	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a levy per kilogram of salmon and rainbow trout produced in the context of the 2019 government budget, adjusted on the basis of the salmon and trout prices and following the allocation key of the aquaculture fund.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4870	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget in 2019 to submit proposals for a levy per kilogram of salmon and rainbow trout produced, which will fall entirely to the host municipalities.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4880	SV shall vote subsidiaryly for this proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4892	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4897	Then we correct again. The number of votes shall then be 85 votes against and 19 votes in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4902	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4912	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4932	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4940	The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4952	My vote is missing, it must be in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4957	Then we take the vote one more time – as it seems that others have also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4974	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e4991	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e5111	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e5121	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e5130	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e5147	Case No. 12–17 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 61 to 66. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-04.ana.ud127e5192	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
