ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e28	The representatives Peter Frølich, Silje Hämdal and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Tom Kalsås, now takes the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 20 March 2018: ‘Change in the composition of the Government and change among the State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 20 March 2018 at 2.30 p.m. 1200 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Councillor Sylvi Listhaug is hereby dismissed. State Council Per Sandberg takes over the Administrative Board of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, in addition to his current responsibilities in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. State Secretary Thor Kleppen Sättem is dismissed as Secretary of State for Sylvi Listhaug and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Per Sandberg in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Torkil Åmland is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for Sylvi Listhaug and is hereby re-appointed State Secretary for Per Sandberg State Council in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Knut Morten Johansen is appointed Secretary of State for Sylvi Listhaug and is re-appointed State Secretary for Per Sandberg State Council in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Sveinung Rotevatn is dismissed as Secretary of State for Sylvi Listhaug and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Per Sandberg in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Toril Charlotte Ulleberg Reynolds is dismissed as Secretary of State for Sylvi Listhaug and is re-appointed State Secretary for Per Sandberg State Council in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 20 March 2018 at the latest. 1230.’» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The former member of the government, Sylvi Listhaug, takes up his seat as a representative. The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e79	I will, on behalf of Mr Jørgen Bekkevold, and myself, present a proposal for a representative report on the rights and equivalency of persons with development disabilities and on measures that strengthen the fundamental rights of people with development disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e84	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e89	On behalf of myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on improving and simplifying the reporting of significant sustainability and societal impacts by SMEs. [[SME]] As it says: You can't manage what you don't measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e96	The representative of Mr Zaineb Al-Samarai will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e101	On behalf of the biggest representatives of Anette Trettebergstuen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Kari Henriksen, Jette F. Christensen, Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on a more regulated market for cosmetic injections.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e106	These proposals will be dealt with in a regular manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e122	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e131	We have a dramatic week in Norwegian politics behind us. A government council spread on Facebook a post that was untrue and gross, grumbled under dangerous attitudes and was met with distrust by a majority here in the main hall. A government crisis that was about to occur was averted at the last moment – not because the Prime Minister cleaned up, but because the Council of State withdrew. In yesterday's debate, the Prime Minister summarized the debate and the week of asking the opposition's speakers to go back and review their manuscripts to see if they were within the decent. That's the lesson we got from that tutor. Relativity is important in politics, and I think we can all say that when there are fresh debates, we can all say whether we've been inside or outside, whether we've been out of line with the claims. But that's not what this case is about. The core here is the question of the rhetoric of the country's then Justice Minister nerds under dangerous flows, conspiracy theories and hatred. The Prime Minister first said that this was a matter of the rhetoric of the Labour Party and the Advance Party, which they found out between themselves. She was so sorry. But last night we heard again a prime minister who was back to say that this was basically about the debate on propriety. The question is, Has she really understood? I want to ask questions and be very specific: the speech that the country's Minister of Justice made on 9 March, with the image and text, that the Workers' Party is more concerned with the legal security of terrorists than the security of the nation, does she believe that that post, the image and the text negates under dangerous attitudes and conspiracy theories and can be dangerous in a society that is also intended to protect citizens from action?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e140	I already informed quite clearly on Sunday that I thought that the post was above the limit of what I believe is decent and acceptable mention by others. It confers on others, directly or indirectly, an intention to take more care of terrorists than to take care of the national security. I don't think that's a way we're going to run politics, to bring together opinions and intentions you don't have. Many people tend to debate that kind of thing. Debates on terrorism, debates on immigration issues, debates on political parties and disagreements can all be instrumental in blazing into various types of debate and discussion. But I believe that if the claim from the head of the Workers' Party is that it was deliberately negligent during this debate, it is wrong to add Sylvi Listhaug that kind of thought behind this. Debates appear on all these themes. There's not one picture on my Facebook page where I'm with a young Northman with hijab, who doesn't nerdy up during this kind of debate, because it's kind of ignitable questions. However, I intend to continue to be represented with young Northmen with hijab, because I think it is important to show the variance and choices we have in our society. To add this to a conscious nerd, I disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e147	I don't make sense here. I asked questions about this type of playback and imagery is dangerous, whether it is nerding under dangerous attitudes. To Dagsrevyen, the Prime Minister said that it was a good idea to have a substantive debate, that the imagery and attack on the Workers' Party was at the top, and that state councils should take care of the use of words. She has taken back the propensity trail again, and I believe that we are going to walk in ourselves from time to time. I believe this was indecent. The question to the Prime Minister is now: Was it dangerous? Is it dangerous that the country's Minister of Justice and Security, who is responsible for law and order and justice and also for the detention of vulnerable people, should publish such messages? It is dangerous to go into the discussion about the relationship between attitude and action. It's such a relationship. I don't really give the Minister of Justice any intention to say that not to understand that this is dangerous – that it can humiliate under dangerous attitudes, that it makes people afraid – is what bothers me. Does the Prime Minister see that post as potentially dangerous?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e154	I look at that post as if it should not have been posted. That's why it's also removed. I believe it is important that we tread carefully in these questions. But underlying what Jonas Gahr Støre now says, is that you've had a conscious speculation in this. I believe that in all these debates we must be careful to show the breadth. But there's no deliberate speculation, and I don't think we should add it either. That's also why I reacted to Jonas Gahr Støre's speech to his state government, where I felt that he added to Sylvi Listhaug a desire to consciously gloat under this. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e159	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e164	Here we are again: it should have been removed. I fully agree with that. But the Prime Minister hesitated, or did not get it taken out. My point is that if the country's Minister of Justice, and not the Prime Minister, don't understand that that kind of play is dangerous, it's very serious. I would assume that such an experienced and skilled communicator should understand that the imagery and the text and the way it is out there day after day are dangerous. This does not mean attaching to her attitudes that should be violent in any way, but that you do not understand that it sucks up under dangerous attitudes. I record that the Prime Minister on other attempts says that the picture should not be there, and that one should not associate attitudes. But ignore the attitudes. The question is: is this type of imagery and text, outsourced by a Minister of Justice, suitable to humiliate under dangerous attitudes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e172	I think we have to be careful about the use of images and rhetoric in these debates, because there are demanding debates to be held. But I still believe that what Jonas Gahr Støre is now trying to do is add Sylvi Listhaug opinions she does not have – or content – and that was also what I reacted to in the sum of the posts that were in Stortingen yesterday. I think we have to think through how we do it. I say it's very easy and we can put very strong restrictions on the political debate if we're going to assume that we're not going to have any posts that help this debate increase or are present, for the debate on immigration, on terrorism, on jihadism, is extremely easily flammable in any case. My experience, as I said, is that I can post posts that go completely the other way around, and it puts a full light on that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e177	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e182	I don't think I should go on, because I understand that the Prime Minister is not at the core. Everything she says now, we can agree on: we're going to behave decently, we're going to complain when we go too far, we're going to have an honest and honest debate. But I think that if we don't learn from the experience of being able to say that this is dangerous – authority officials and a minister of justice must be particularly careful – then that's what we haven't learned. It is not to attribute attitudes to each other, but it is to understand the importance of what nerds beyond right-wing populism, conspiracy theories and dangerous attitudes. I had hoped that the country's prime minister could say that yes, this is potentially dangerous, and that is why it should have been removed – that it is inappropriate, we can agree. But we don't get that answer. I think that is discouraging. And then the question is, what have you learned from last week? I want to ask the Prime Minister – because it was a dramatic week for her, too: what is left for her as the main doctrine of politics after last week's events?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e188	I agree – and it has been my message from Saturday – that rhetoric should not go beyond politics, that the substance of political matters should be discussed within a framework that does not negate an insatiable debate, which does not contribute to the spread of hatred, which does not contribute to the making of excuses for those who already have pre-existing opinions on one or the other side of the political scale. I believe that is an important lesson from this debate. That this is a very sensitive area to go into, that this is a demanding area to discuss, I've been doing that for 20 years. I know that this is a demanding area to go into the various matters. And it's important to remember, not least, that there are many who have experienced terror in our society, and I have deep respect for the fact that any reminder and any debate about this will hurt people who have experienced being chased by a terrorist on Utøya. The feeling that it's bad, I think we can all have. It means that we should be extra careful in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e193	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e198	What we are left with now is a warning from the Prime Minister against an impeccable debate. We belong to the same generation. I think we can all keep the rumors that we like boring debates that are factual, and then we have to fire them up with a little strong statements, they might become indecent in between. But this is about something else. The Prime Minister is at the end of his life with vulnerable people. The reason why I say it's dangerous is that I've been through it this past week. I know very many of the people who have gone and hidden themselves, the families who have closed the doors, because such statements fire about this. Then I had hoped the Prime Minister could say, "Yes, it's dangerous, we're going to be particularly careful about it." There are conspiracy theories out there against my party, against my movement. We've paid a price for it. We agree on it as a nation – that's good. But we have to admit that this kind of statement is particularly dangerous, and I was hoping that the country's prime minister could say, yes, it is. It's not just that it's incalculable -- it's really a pretty factual post, it's the depressing one. But it's dangerous, it's grossly wrong, and it should be taken away from very definite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e205	I have distanced myself from that Facebook posting a long time ago. I've also been very clear about what we've learned, and seen in the light of just how the debate was about it, we have to learn from it. That is also what I said early in this discussion, which is the background for our apology and informed that it was on behalf of the government the rhetoric that had been led in the matter. And that's exactly what Jonas Gahr Støre is saying now, that understanding that there are people in our society who have been so close to terror, and so close to right-wing extreme terror, that all that kind of debate, to stir up again, we need to be more careful with. In that form, we fully agree that the debate we had last week touched on something that was bad and that we shouldn't have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e210	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e216	I must use the words I used here in the Chamber on Thursday, when the Minister of Justice said here: it doesn't last! And then I'd say another common denominator, in a debate where the prime minister sums up that the opposition has to go back and reconsider their posts, whether they were within the decent. There was another common denominator from the opposition in those posts – which was not agreed, but everyone was concerned with it: that the double communication from the government must end. We can't have one communication from a government and one from a batch of stand-alone on the outside. We have had that for over four years now, and I think it is also a message that emerged quite clearly in that debate. I want to ask the Prime Minister the question: what are the consequences of what she experienced over the week, where she had a government council that communicated on the outside and spent six days adjusting it. Does it have consequences? State Council Listhaug drew himself, as we understand, she was not asked to stop. So what conclusions does the Prime Minister draw from her government communicating that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e225	For me, it is absolutely essential that a big-time representative who is elected to his big-time programme can defend and believe what is in that big-time programme. That is the mandate of the voters, that is the mandate given to that representative by the voters. A member of the Government with a platform of three lots shall relate to the sum and the consensus between the three lots. Then you're the Council of State for three parties, not just for its own party, and that's the basic part that I think all my government councils should deal with. Then all three parties in the government must be taken into account when communicating, taking into account what is regulated in the platform. That parties show what they originally meant, I don't think is double communication. I mean, that's honesty to the voters. It gets weird when you sit in a government and suggest something, is behind it in government, and goes out of government, like for example. SV has done it in the Goliath case, and spends most of the time arguing against that decision being taken once, which they themselves actually agreed to propose to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e234	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e239	Yesterday, the Prime Minister had the opportunity to conclude the debate in an unifying way. She chose not to. And today she demonstrates that she still has problems admitting the main problem. None of us have talked about Sylvi Listhaug's intention, we've talked about the function of words. So the Prime Minister is still not able to clearly say that it may be dangerous to use the language of extremists. That's the important thing -- not how many people were hurt, not what the Council of State wanted, but the function of the words. The Prime Minister must be able to say something about it. So yesterday the Prime Minister was very instructive, at some point she should have rather low authority on just that with language usage. I've been through my script. I'm in charge of every word. And I still demand what was the main point yesterday, namely that the Prime Minister says clearly that it can be dangerous to use the language of extremists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e246	I fully agree that it is dangerous to use the language of extremists. And I want to give SV honor for something more SV representatives have done lately. In connection with the ACER debate, there are several members of the SV who have withdrawn from part of the debate and part of the appeals that have been, because it has been cross-border. That is what I want to give to EN favour, that is good, because I believe that in that debate you are far inside of conspiracy theories, you are far in the middle of discussions that are also completely outside it. And as politicians, I think we should make sure that we do not contribute. There are many conspiracy theories that are raised on both sides of the political scale. Sometimes they meet, especially in the hatred of everything that concerns the EEA, the EU, extremism and immigration, for example, for which it is important that we put our feet down. I have no problem saying that it is important that we take care that our language does not neigh under conspiracy theories. That's part of what I think is the responsible debate in this context. So I believe that part of the description that Audun Lysbakken yesterday gave of plowing with right forces was to give us views that neither the Right nor the Advance Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e257	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e263	I thank you for the compliment, but I also have to point out that there is a very big difference between conspiracy theories about ACER and conspiracy theories about the Workers' Party. Conspiracy theories about ACER have never contributed to or inspired violence in Norway. Yesterday, I think the Prime Minister was particularly critical that I said something about right-wing populism in my post, and I realize that it offends the Prime Minister. I don't really think it offends the Progress Party, but it insults the Prime Minister, because it says something unpleasant about her government project. We've been discussing for a long time whether there are right-wing populists in the government or not. I remember, after all, that the Prime Minister, who has repeatedly said in the last few days that she never uses characteristics, called my party colleague Heikki Holmås ‘a little freshman’ because he concluded that there had been right-wing populists in government in 2013. Can I just ask the Prime Minister the following: Does she think that something I or others in the opposition said in the debate yesterday is comparable to what Sylvi Listhaug posted on Facebook, and that was the beginning of this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e274	Nothing of what was said in yesterday's debate was directly in the same way as the Facebook status was, which was set up on a matter, which contained the basis of a political matter discussed in Stortinget. No one was directly like this. But it is clear that the sum of what was said yesterday — if you listened to what was said — was trying to beat the government in hardcore with right-wing extreme forces in Norway, right-wing populists, and ways to argue that I don't think is a bit of that debate. So I'd like to say that sometimes it's hard when you say something with a smile about your mouth, when it comes in writing afterwards. I said with a smile about the mouth that Heikki Holmås was «a little freshness». I'm deeply sorry that I've ever charged people with heights. That he's a freshman, I think Heikki Holmås tolerates. He should tolerate that, for when I was a municipal minister, he said, for example. – over five columns – that I had blood on my hands, because of an asylum seeker who took his own life. SV's management would never regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e281	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e286	When the Prime Minister asks me to go home and look over my post, I do of course. I actually thought it was surprising good for me to be. [[Laughter]] The serious thing about this is that the Labour Party's motive was questioned, the party that has just experienced terrorism on Norwegian soil. But can we now turn this debate into a positive crossroads? The trust between politicians is unlikely to be important, that we always think that even if we are disunity, the other is the best. We disagree about teacher standards – I have said that I had wanted a greater enthusiasm from the Prime Minister in that matter – but I know that the Prime Minister will do the best for Norwegian schools. My question is: can we now turn this debate into a crossroads of Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e293	I believe that we have room to turn this debate into a roadblock for Norwegian policy. I have nothing to say to the post from Knut Arild Hareide yesterday. I think what we're going to learn is how political words and politicians' words can spark debates that we don't want to have. And to the breakup between parties: as I said quite early in this discussion, I think I said it on Saturday and wrote it on my own Facebook page, since it has now become a source of truth about what we mean: sometimes the rhetoric becomes so that politics disappears, and then there is actually a debate about something quite different than what we politicians wanted it to be: about the matter and the content. I hope we can manage to come back to the fact that this is about the matter and the content, and not least about the development of Norwegian society. One of the things that concerns me most in Norwegian society is if people feel that they don't feel included, if they don't feel that they can participate. That's one of the reasons why when we talk about sustainable welfare, we also talk about social sustainability, which is about politics, but it's also about rhetoric and words we use in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e298	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e303	ACER resistance is about the government of the people, that decisions on Norwegian electricity supply are to be taken by the Norwegian wholesaler, by the Norwegian people. Because how we use our country's footfall, our national ownership of power and national energy policy has been absolutely crucial to the development of what we have in Norway. We've used the power to build industry, build a stable low-power power supply, and it's been a good thing for the many. Not least, it has been crucial for thousands of jobs and the enormous value creation we have had in our powerful industry. Norway is an energy storm power, and there is no reason for us to give up power in this area, from the Norwegian biggest, from Norwegian people elected to the EU – an EU the Norwegian people have said no to twice. The right-wing leader, Erna Solberg, wanted to introduce the euro in Norway in due time and wrote good articles – she thinks – about it in 2005. Over the last crisis, we've seen how wise it was that we didn't do what Erna Solberg wanted, and that we still had the crown, has been absolutely crucial for our industry. Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the Presidency Party of the Terje Søviknes want to give power over parts of Norwegian energy policy to the EU and the EU bureaucracy. It is just as unwise as it was in 2005 to argue that we should introduce the euro in Norway. I hope that the Workers' Party will turn around at the group meeting later today. But if the Workers' Party doesn't, hope is in Iceland. There the sister party of the Right and the sister party of the Center Party have jointly said no to ACER, yes to national self-determination. So my question to the Prime Minister is, what is the Prime Minister and the Government's plan if it's Iceland that saves our national self-determination?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e312	I believe that the Acer case is not a matter of national self-determination. I think it is about whether we should be part of the internal market, that is, the Energy Union, as the part of Europe which today has the best-functioning inter-national links, systems, and which, from 1991 on, has already had a deregulated energy market in which we have served well and which has helped to ensure that the whole Nordic region has a coordinated market. It is not about giving sovereignty, it is about helping Europe's climate issues to find a common and good solution. The whole point of the third energy package in the EU is to ensure that the Paris Agreement is implemented. It is to ensure that the energy market in renewable energy can be moved around Europe in a way that helps us to increase the capacity to absorb more coal from the base of energy supply in Europe, because we now have restricted areas because of legislation in different countries and because there is not enough common grid deployment to generate renewable energy. For Norway, we have been a member of the first two energy packages. So now the question is about the third one. The third package contributes to raising even more bottlenecks, and the limited authority entry that goes to ESA through the Acer solution, has been said quite clearly that there is a limited transfer of authority. I have to say that I think it is impressive that you can make this a matter of ownership of power, when there have been no questions of ownership of power. There are no questions about any of this at all. The question here is whether we are going to be involved in the development of Europe that helps us actually to achieve our objectives from the Paris Agreement and to ensure that climate change emissions are reduced in the world. A little solidarity seems to me to have been fine. We cannot just talk about the Paris Agreement in an enclosed space in Norway; we must be involved in the regional solutions for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e321	This is about the government wanting to transfer power from the Norwegian pottery and from Norwegian administration to Acer, an agency that we are not a member of, and in which we do not have the right to vote. An important part of the debate has been the number of foreign tables and the cable NorthConnect, which will lead to increased electricity prices in Norway and will weaken the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry. In the media today, we can read that the Workers' Party claims that NorthConnect has received a completely different treatment after what is happening. However, the agreement in the committee states that the majority assumes that the Department will finalise the applications from NorthConnect before a case is brought before the Stortinget where the legislation is to be amended. Then is my question to the Prime Minister: Will the concession treatment and approval of NorthConnect go as planned, or will it be stopped, as the Workers' Party gives the impression?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e328	We have agreed with the Labour Party in Stortinget that we will ensure good regulation by the national authority in the future regarding the transmission of it. And we agree that there should not be new private ownership associated with this. It's in relation to the agreements we have. But it's still not that ownership disappears. Nor is it the case that prices are necessarily higher in Norway. There is a lot of energy in Europe, which sometimes gives us lower prices than what we average in Norway, and which helps us to get lower prices of the energy we import at some times, and we can profit from exporting at times when there is a shortage in Europe. It also provides more stability, including in the Norwegian supply. That's why we made the Nordic power market. The reason we built cables between the Nordic countries was also to create more stability. I have agreed that prices have gone up and down in the energy market, which is challenging for the powerful industry, for example. in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e333	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e339	The Prime Minister got a very clear question. It's about NorthConnect. It was whether the concession treatment would go as planned, or whether it would be stopped. The Prime Minister was unable to answer, and then I repeat the question, because it is very important which answer is given. The Prime Minister knows very well that this cable is very controversial. There shall be Norwegian and foreign operators on the owner's side, and it will affect the Norwegian power price. The question is very simple: will the concession treatment and approval of NorthConnect go as planned or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e344	The concession treatment of NorthConnect will continue as planned, in accordance with the principles and assumptions of the agreement with the Workers' Party. It's going to be the basis for the concession treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e349	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e354	The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, started asking about the issue of Iceland. The Prime Minister’s sister party, the Independence Party, has a national meeting which says that the Independence Party refuses to agree to the further transfer of power over Iceland’s energy market to EU agencies. It is not a ‘should’ decision — it is a ‘should’ decision. So has the Central Party of Iceland's sister party. So the question remains, because I didn't hear the Prime Minister answer it instead: What does Norway do if Iceland says no to ACER?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e361	I'm a little surprised that the Central Party is using Iceland as a core issue in this context – Iceland, which is not very integrated into the European energy market, which has completely different assumptions than the rest of us. First, they have enormously much more energy than most other countries have, with a much greater distance. That's why they don't have the kind of exchange that we have at all. We are an integral part of the Nordic energy market. Our energy policy is much closer to Europe already. I have great respect for my sister party, but I deeply disagree with their approach to the issue of the EU. They have always opposed EU membership because they have had other financial interests, particularly those related to fisheries in Iceland, as the main reason for their opposition to any EU membership. Of course, if we do not get this through the EEA agreement – to which there are three countries to be included – it will be a challenge that we will then have to deal with, but there are many things we have dealt with over the years where Iceland or Liechtenstein have had slightly different views, but where we have found solutions on the road, precisely because three countries need to find common solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e370	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e375	We're trying to use the Questionnaire to get some clear answers from the Prime Minister. She does not answer the questions asked. So let me ask the two questions one more time. Will the concession processing and approval of NorthConnect continue? What does it mean when the Prime Minister says that concession treatment should continue under the terms of the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party? What does that mean? And question No. 2: I understand that the Prime Minister does not agree with his Icelandic colleague, but what does it mean for Norway if Iceland says no? Does it matter to Norway, or will Norway simply ignore the fact that Iceland says no?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e384	Part of the Acer case is also concerned with matters within the EEA Agreement. If something blocks that a directive becomes part of the EEA Agreement, it does not become part of the EEA Agreement. That's the legal logic of this. Then we have to look at other solutions. But as I say, it's very early to conclude with it, because it's like we often have a mutual dialogue and discussion about what's important for different countries. And for Iceland, this is a matter that is not important – precisely because they are not integrated into the energy market as we have today. That means they don't have vital interests to keep this going. We're much more integrated, it's more important to us. Then we tend to have respect for each other's country, where we can find good dialogues. That's why we can't give a clearer answer to this, because of course this is a matter of process. First, the Norwegian Storing shall take a stand and decide what the Norwegian position is. On the other hand, it means that we're going to continue the concession treatment under the terms of the agreement. Then we go through what it means in practice when we actually have a decision in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e391	Else May-Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e396	Norway has a long and proud history of the management of natural resources. Long-term management, broad political consensus and popular uprising are important to us. So there is no doubt that the ownership of both the hydropower and the oil and gas resources will lie with the Norwegian people. Interestingly, the former Central Party Council was involved and built up during both the Nordic cooperation and the third energy market package in its time. Hydropower has given a competitive advantage to the industrial nation of Norway. But there have also been some foreign connections that have made it possible to import cheap power, and could also sell expensively, if we wish. We are concerned with industrial development and the ownership and management of Norwegian resources by the community. That is, we should have the right to decide whether to build new cables nationally, provided that they are economically viable, they should be publicly built, operated and owned through state networks in the future. Can the Prime Minister agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e405	Let me say that there are several elements in the discussion about foreign tables. One is security of supply also for the Norwegian market. I have been in for a time when people's economy has received quite a hard impression of higher energy prices, not later than winter 2003–2004, which was a tough winter. It may feel strange to say this year that we have had as much rainfall as we have now, that will at some point melt, and probably give us lower prices. The second is that these transmission cables provide a basis for more renewable power in Norway, i.e. new renewable power that can be expanded. At the moment, we have a surplus of internal power, and it won't be economically profitable, and it will be difficult to get people to invest in the development of more renewables in Norway, if we don't also know that there are agreements outside Norway's borders to get this. So we agree that there should be national decisions relating to any new contract, i.e. any new transmission cable to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e413	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e418	Under Erna Solberg, differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway. In parts of our working life, development is dramatic, and it can be one of the main causes of increased inequality in the future. While they are getting more and more at the top of society, some of the worst paid workers in the country have had many years almost without real wage growth. Unemployment and insecurity are too many everyday lives. One of the reasons is that the employment agencies have gained so much power and so much space in the Norwegian working life. The result is that permanent and safe jobs, predictability and financial security are an illusion for workers. Where people in the old days stood with their hats in their hands, too many people now sit with their phones in their hands and wonder if there would be a job. It happens in municipalities and in welfare, it happens in parts of the industry, and it happens in the construction industry. At Storo in Oslo, Thon, one of the right-hand campaign sponsors, has a building site where hotels, homes and cinemas are being built, and in January, the association of electromonauts revealed what they believe to be illegal rentals. 90 pst. by the electricians at the construction site at Storo were hired – 90 pst.Oh, my God! Free Trade Movement.no has done an investigation where they found that 80 pst. of the electrical jobs available in Oslo were via a staffing agency – 80 pst.Oh, my God! Then there is not much left of the phrases about a safe working life. Now we need a working life policy for the many, not because they get on top. Last week the Stortinget dealt with a number of proposals that could give us that, related to restrictions on the manning industry, not least on the construction sites in the Oslofjord area. The government parties voted against all of them. Why is the government so happy with the agencies that provide unemployment and insecurity for people who build the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e427	We're not so happy with recruitment agencies that create insecurity or anything else. We are concerned about social security, we are concerned that we should make sure that we have a good working life, where it is possible to have an income from the job you are doing, and we are therefore also concerned about looking at the changes that come to work. Where we want more flexibility, it is a responsibility for us to make sure that we also limit, so that people are not exploited. That is why we are making a strong effort at cross-border crime at work, and we have taken new initiatives to do so. That is why we have also focused on the question of how we regulate rentals, precisely because we see, especially in the construction industry in Oslo, that there is too much rent and that there is a great deal of use of manning companies. This is also one of the reasons why in 2017 we sent out three proposals for problems in the manning industry. Fixed employment was to be defined in more detail in the law, there was to be a new basis for temporary employment in employment agencies with regard to the hiring of workers to fill real vicariates, and then we proposed a sketch for a lease-in allowance for construction. That quota proposal got a hard ride from both those who wanted more flexibility and those who wanted less flexibility. That's why it's among the questions we don't go on with. That would mean you couldn't have 90 or 80 pst. So the growths that the representative Lighthouse now mentions would not be possible. Then it was adopted a recommendation from the Storting to find a way to regulate this, which we come back to when we make a final proposal. But we agree that it's too high. In Oslo and Akershus they carry out rentals today on average 14-18 pst. of the year works of craftsmen in the construction industry, but there is also a very high activity in Oslo and Akershus at the moment, with many large buildings being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e436	The measures announced last summer by the government have proved to be more a campaign game than a reality. It is quite obvious that today we need a much stronger lye. What we were told in Stortinget last week was that the government parties have nothing to do with it. A ban on the manning industries in the construction sites in the Oslofjord area could solve this problem. We have rules. For example, in order to have such a large proportion of rentals, a collective agreement and the consent of trustees are required, but the rules are constantly being circumvented. One key to doing something about it, if you don't want to go for a ban, as SV wants, is to strengthen the trade union movement. But what does the government do? Well, the government has abolished the collective court of appeal. The only tax burden that this government is not committed to strengthening is the deduction to trade-union organisation. Is the Prime Minister willing to acknowledge that in the situation we are today, the increase in professional organisation is very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e441	I can promise the representative Lysbakken that I say no to significant amounts of creative, good proposals for tax relief. It's not just this one that we're actually insisting on being at the same level. There are quite a number of proposals from all the government parties and from all the organisations outside to get a new tax relief just for their project. There is now a systematic refusal by the government because we need to protect a tax base and ensure that the tax system motivates more work, motivates more investment in Norwegian business and also motivates national ownership – which are the main forms of tax relief we have been trying to obtain. I would like to stress that the very proposal that got a hard ride would have been effective on the biggest crops – as the representative Lyssbakken mentioned in his main post – and would have made it impossible to have 90 pst. renting of electricians at Thon or 80 pst. in other occupational groups. Then it would have been significantly lower. We've been working on these questions for a long time simply because they're hard to regulate. There is a need to have agency staff and the possibility of hiring, if not all of the tasks will only go to non-residents and non-resident companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e448	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e453	I'm going to correct myself immediately, because I realized there's one treasure Erna Solberg has increased, and that's it on termination pay for people who lose their jobs, so there's also a lot of yard workers who have been taxed more during this government. Although 100,000 are employed by recruitment agencies, and more than 10,000 young people are waiting for a place to learn, recruitment agencies hardly take in a single apprentice. There are agencies that are trying to be recognised as training establishments, but the recruitment companies that are applying are usually refused because they cannot prove that the apprentices are being trained properly. The government has placed a great deal of emphasis on increasing the proportion of apprentices learning. When we see that the manning industry, as in my example, stood for 80 pst. of the job oers in Oslo, do not include apprentices, how worldwide the government intends to ensure a professional apprenticeship in e.g. construction – if you are not willing to have a tougher policy towards the employment agencies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e460	One of the most important things this government has done for apprenticeships is that we opened it up in purchasing to the state. In the case of tenders to the State, there must therefore be an obligation to have apprenticeship places. We made that opening in the law last year. It's going to be a significant promise, because that means that everyone who is going to deliver tenders in the given sectors where we lack apprenticeship places will have to have apprenticeship places. It becomes a framework condition that is a general and good way to regulate it. That's why we see that we have more apprentices now than we've had before. We see that the number of apprentices goes up. Fortunately, we have now also looked at the application to the professional professions that the number of applicants for a profession is increasing again, even though we have made changes in the fact that some courses of study are no longer defined as a professional but a subject of special study. That means that the strategy we have on this contributes to more apprenticeship places. The second thing we do is to make sure that the public sector is also more involved in taking in apprentices and committing itself to it, which we have not seen under previous governments, but which are now increasing significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e467	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e472	The requirement for public tenders is very good. The challenge is just, as I was about to say, that recruitment agencies who say they want to take in apprentices do not have the opportunity to do so anyway, because they are refused because they lack a professional basis. It says something about the development of our working life. That's why Erna Solberg can't solve this challenge that way. I note that the Prime Minister is not willing to resort to the manning industry. So let me ask you about a very related thing, the change in the law that opened up more use of temporary employment, which according to the government was to give more people jobs in Norway. Thus, the figures suggest that just as the opposition said, such a change in law – in line with the experience of the rest of Europe – does not give more jobs, but gives more temporary jobs. Does the Prime Minister agree that we have a ominous trend towards more temporary work in Norway, and is she willing to reconsider her own legislative change to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e479	Firstly, the representative said that he was wrong when he said that we had no intention of dealing with the challenges with recruitment agencies. We have announced a proposition for the Storting related to the hiring of labour, so it is notified to Stortinget and it will come. It has taken time to identify the best measures. I also believe that the Storting's treatment of these matters shows that it is not simply no matter how you try to regulate this, because we have to make sure that we do not regulate that in tenders that are put out in Norway, only foreign companies will win the tenders, because you cannot rent enough to have the capacity. I disagree with those who have stated that if you can't have all the permanent employees, you have to leave the city on these missions. The problem is that then Norwegian companies lose their competitiveness, and foreign companies come in and win the same type of tender. On the question of temporary employees, I believe it is too early to conclude. The preliminary report is made at a time when the labour market in Norway was marked by much higher unemployment. We need a little more time to see the consequences of temporary employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e487	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e493	Due to the government's inadequacy in these issues, serious Norwegian companies see no alternative but to rely on increasing use of rentals in order to be able to compete for assignments at all. It helps to weaken productivity and innovation in the industry, and it weakens the organised labour market. That is why it was good that the majority of people took responsibility last week and do the job that the government should have done to strengthen the organized working life. What worries us is that the image and impression created by industry challenges weakens the recruitment of the industry among today's young people. We also see, among others. in a recent report, that eastern Europeans are at three times more likely to die at work in Norway. Is the government concerned that increased rentals, insecurity and short contracts with lower job security should spread to new sectors in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e500	We are concerned that we should make exactly the same HMS requirements for everyone who is in Norway, that we should have the same safety in all jobs in Norway. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate is working in particular to look at where there is renting of a lot of labour, to ensure that they comply with the HMS rules in Norway. Of course, it is a concern when we see that there are more people coming here with a different type of safety culture — that is a bit of the challenge too — where you take more chances and don't know as well about the rights and the law in Norway, and that there is a significantly higher level of accidents associated with it. We're against accidents, whether they're Norwegians, Poles or anyone who's experiencing it at the workplace. We want to have the least possible accidents in our workplaces. There has been a good job in business for many years in order to reduce the number of accidents at work, and we have to be careful to keep it there in the future. That's why we're working a lot to get to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e505	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e510	In April 2015, the Stortinget adopted an amendment to the Working Environment Act § 14-9, which gave general access to temporary employment for a period of up to 12 months under certain conditions. When the bill was promoted, the government argued, among other things. that the amendment would lower the threshold for employing people who, for various reasons, are struggling to enter the labour market and that temporary employment could become the way into permanent work for many. The Christian People's Party considered that argument to be sustainable, and we therefore helped to secure a majority of the law change. However, we made provision for the introduction of general access to temporary employment to be evaluated against the intention of the introduction. It joined the majority. We are aware that on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Fafo is working on a larger project in this area. The final report of the project will be submitted in autumn 2018. Can the Prime Minister confirm that, by the end of 2018, the Stortinget will be presented with an evaluation of the amendment of the law in 2015, which gave a general access to temporary employment for up to 12 months?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e517	I can confirm that we will return to Stortinget. If we can do this before Christmas 2018, I can't say here and now from Stortinget's pulpit, because I don't have such a detailed knowledge of Fafo's contract and when to deliver the results is that I can tell if it is presented then. But I want to underline one thing. We have received some preliminary reports. They're from a time when our labour market was very busy, with regions where we had high unemployment. The fact that you have to have a longer time perspective to see what it's like. So we know from a number of temporary employment agencies and others that being temporarily employed quite often helps you get regular employment where you try. There is a very large recruitment path, not least for employers in small and medium-sized enterprises, who do not have the same opportunity to go through a large application base and who therefore often choose to try out through such temporary employment, among others. for people who may have some challenges with their CV in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e522	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e528	The Christian People's Party will have an inclusive society where everyone experiences equivalency in practice, where my value is not determined by abilities or position, but where each individual human being has an inviolable value in being a human being. Christian People's Party is therefore fighting for parents to have real and practical opportunities to bring their child forward, even if they are told on the ultrasound that the child has an extra chromosome, or that the child will need extra follow-up in some way. I think it's a common responsibility – in friends' groups, in schools, in working life – that we include and give room for people in all their inequalities. I am pleased with the Prime Minister's commitment to an inclusive society and working life. Today's Downs Day. I'm wearing two different socks. The initiator is Nathea, and she says that this Rockesock campaign is about the fact that other things are fun. And I want to add: "Annleisheit is important." It's important because we then value the uniqueness of human dignity, and the fact that we're different and different in each of our ways, is part of making it richer. Many people are also involved in providing an additional base of competence, and we know that jobs where we have creativity, innovation and lack of skills give something very positive in themselves. In the autumn of 2016, there was a distribution that showed that the developmental disabilities have little access to the labour market, only 25 p.m., and that the vast majority of them are on labour market measures. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: What can we do to include more people in our working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e537	First of all, I agree that it is important that we stress that diversity is good, and that it should not be that our society should only be for those who are 100 percent effective, for those who can function in exactly the same way as us. And I was on a fantastic Monday visit to look at how you're included in the day-to-day school in Bærum, just like a recording for today's Downs day. Durable job creation is the most widely used form of action. This government has increased the number of permanent job placements in order to help increase the number of mental retardation interventions. It is not just mentally retarded people who use permanent job placements, but there is a need for it. There is a need for different types of jobs: a need for those who are low-functioning, to have activity and to be able to do something and feel something, and a need for the very many high-functioning who are in work. I believe that we should also work more to build cooperation between normal working life and long-term job placements, so that people can work in a normal place of work, with organisation. There are several companies that do, where you get a follow-up from a labour market enterprise, but are out in regular work and in a common type of activity and not in a specific job. I think that enriches those who have a colleague with a mental retardation, and that it can be that way is also good for those who are mentally retarded. Then there are wage subsidies, labour market measures and these VTA sites for which there is a greater need to cooperate. I think more companies could do it. There are many examples of this going well, including an example from my summer job in the 1970s and 1980s, where the janitor assistant at the Marine Research Institute, who was also responsible for the Aquarium in Bergen, lived at Vestlandsheimen and actively helped clear and organize – with great authority – around the tourist season of the Aquarium.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e546	I thank you for your answer. I just think the core of what the Prime Minister describes is right, that a job that has a lack of it is rich – not necessarily in efficiency, but in a lack that I think will affect everyone who works there. The challenge is that 25 pst. is in the workplace, and it's a very low number given the potential we have to take out. Now the prime minister is focusing on just VTA, permanently organized work. I have a simple follow-up: Is the Prime Minister in agreement, when we see that it is the instrument that works, that it must lead to a significant escalation of it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e553	We chose to escalate the VTA sites in the state budget in the autumn. We have also managed to get far more jobs out of the money that has been disposed of in the past. It was a myth that we had cut in the number of jobs. We didn't. In the past, because of new forms of cooperation and other ways of organizing it, we have actually received more jobs for the money. I also believe that this is an important area to continue. I believe that it is part of ensuring better inclusion and better participation. We need to be aware that there is a variance in the mental retardation group. If you think that 100 pst. can be out of work, it won't be like that. But there are a lot of people who can both have a meaningful job, contribute to a job and do a good job in perfectly normal jobs in functions that an employer might not have paid 100 pst. for yourself. But with a certain amount of support from the public, it will be a great deal more than that. That's why I think we should keep going. I cannot forge the future state budgets, but we have done so in this year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e561	There will be follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e566	Today, the Christian People's Party has submitted a Document 8 proposal that we want everyone to have the same opportunities. Down's syndrome is not a disease, but that you have one chromosome more than others. The forecasts for this group are much better today than they were many years ago. I wonder if that's how insurance companies live on old dogmas around this – that people with Down's syndrome don't live so long, that they're healthier than most people, and that they don't have the same quality of life – when they actually don't correspond to parents of children with Down's syndrome getting their child insured. My question is: Does the government think it's okay that the insurance company rejects applications for child insurance based on the fact that the child has Down's syndrome, and nothing more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e573	Firstly, I agree that it is important to look at many of the issues that the rights committee came up with. We set up a public range to address many of the issues of lack and coherence in services for mental retardation. We are working on the follow-up work after the NOU to find good solutions related to it. With regard to the question of child insurance, I find it strange that the insurance company refuses to insure, but I think we also need to be clear that such insurance will often be relatively expensive, precisely because you have to price some kind of uncertainty in it. It's not just people with Down's syndrome who get an insurance waiver. There are quite a number of others who also receive a discount on insurance or an offer of insurance that is relatively high priced. I think it's important that we have a good dialogue about what is actually the life prospects of a person with Down's syndrome, and that it is based on a schematic rejection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e582	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e587	It's the international day of Down's syndrome, where we're going to lift the deficiency and find that all people have the same value regardless of their characteristics and diagnosis. The government has carried out an evaluation of the biotechnology message. There they have left important value questions open and let Stortinget be held responsible for concluding. An offer that can be adopted is to introduce early ultrasound for healthy pregnant women. Such a routine provision will, following the report of the Knowledge Centre, not lead to health benefits for mothers or children. That study is good to demonstrate Down's syndrome before the 12-week period for free abortion. In other countries that have introduced this supply, this has resulted in almost no children with Down’s syndrome being born anymore. The question is, what my Prime Minister, who is the leader of the Right, in this case, because here the Right National Meeting will be decisive for the position of the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e596	Now it's the Prime Minister who's standing and responding to the pulpit here, and there's questions to the government we're really going to have to answer. It's not the Right Leader who's asking questions. Nor do we allow the opposition leaders to put questions directly to them in the Questionnaire. This is a topic to be addressed at the Right Country Meeting, and I am a little concerned that a leader should not always pre-conclude all discussions to be held at a national meeting. It has something to do with putting a pressure on the party's open discussion. We chose last year to say that we should have a good and long discussion, and we have actually spent six months in the party – discussions in very many parts of our party with different views related to this. I'm not going to use Stortingen's pulpit to pre-conclusion national meeting debates on this. Those who want to know what I mean can check out what I have said before, instead of repeating everything. Things are developing too. I've been skeptical to early ultrasound before, but I've also said that I'm open to look at many of these questions again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e603	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e608	First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a quick complaint on Twitter, after the false claim yesterday in a full storage room that an MDG politician in the weekend had called for witch-burning, with reference to Listhaug. The regret was decent and important to us, for the untruth was spreading in some circles. The distrust of the government expressed in public in the last few weeks was, in a parliamentary and technical way, cleared up yesterday. The councils have withdrawn – we are pleased about that. But there are again some important points and aspects of the mistrust that have been expressed and that have led to the resignation of the Council of State. The matter was all the time about much more than a random, incisive, untrue Facebook post by a Minister of Justice, which I tried to raise in the Environment Party the Greens' posts yesterday. Many people in our society are now concerned that we are getting an increase in xenophobic and dangerous attitudes. I have just been informed, after my post yesterday, that I am on a list of people who are being monitored for extreme left-wing attitudes. This is a little ironic, as we also cooperate with the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Labour Party, as in the Energy Cooperation Agreement with the EU, also from yesterday. The Christian People's Party Hareide has also had many threats since yesterday's debate. We in the Green Party are now wondering: After the crisis of mistrust we have just had, does the Prime Minister assess what happened these weeks, as an isolated labour accident from his Minister of Justice, or is this part of a deeper trend in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e617	I almost needed to say welcome on the list. These lists and threats are constantly being developed in the debate on integration and immigration. It's a very heated debate, it's arduous discussions to stand in, and they're hateful. For me, they often come from both sides – from those who think I love Muslims, and from those who think I hate Muslims. I sometimes feel that it's challenging, but I've learned to get used to that kind of expression as an expression of a small minority. It is important to remember that the attitude of immigrants in Norway has been positive, with a ‘dip’ during the refugee crisis in 2015–2016. If we go in and look at the attitude that our society has become more multicultural, the attitude towards immigration, it's actually positive. So you never have to get overwhelmed by the kind of rhetoric that's going on in social media, where some people -- probably the same person with many identities -- try to hit, hoarse, shicker, and harass. As politicians, I believe that we can stand in this and must be aware that we often get tough when we mean anything. We have a lot of help and a lot of space around it. What's always been the biggest challenge for me is that young people who for the first time stick their heads up and think something, meet exactly the same thing. That's why I've been concerned that we have to distance ourselves from hateful expressions. We have to work on the hateful expressions. That is why we have a separate action plan related to this, and that is why there is a lot of work to be done to train children and young people to avoid this happening. There are many individual measures, including: #non-aggressive, linked to gender-based, hateful expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e626	The Green Party believes that we now need to take action to combat these trends as described by the Prime Minister, and radicalisation, including right-wing populism, together. That is why the Green Party believes that we need a permanent change and a new direction in the way in which the members of the government also talk about these difficult issues. However, Minister of Justice Listhaug has now been temporarily replaced by Per Sandberg, formerly known for a similar, harsh and low-compromising style, which has also been noted internationally. Does the Prime Minister think that this is a good way to solve the distrust problem that has arisen around the role of the Minister of Justice? What criteria or basic attitudes does she believe her next Minister of Justice should have and communicate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e633	I believe, as I have said earlier in this debate, that if one is a minister of a government formed by three parties, one represents all three parties. That means that one's rhetoric has to reflect what the three parties think and think, one can't just be for one's own party. That's a difference, and I think it's important to underline. That means that when we express politics in the debate, it must also be an expression of what the Progress Party, the Right and the Left think, whether you are a Left, Right or Advance Party representative in the government. I believe that Per Sandberg is a good government council in our government. Per Sandberg served as Minister of Immigration and Integration for three months last year, without any discussion of what he had to think about in these areas, for he expressed solidarity for what was the government's common project. I believe in any case that it is important to say that it is not just to point to members of the government or members of the big group of the Progress Party in this Chamber in the discussion of hateful statements and how to behave. I think we all have to look at what rhetoric we're using. I am facing powerful attacks from both sides in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e641	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e646	The Greens believe that we need an overview of how dangerous, extreme attitudes, including extreme right positions, have developed in this period, since 2011 in particular. My last question is: what will the Prime Minister and the government do in the future to avoid further upheaval, as we have already seen in many other countries we are dealing with, in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e651	Firstly, it is important to remember that open and honest debate contributes, and that also people like that. are critical of immigration, feel that they have a voice in the debate. A lot of research says that it can help to reduce the kind of hateful statements and less isolation in society, just because you feel that you're actually being heard, and that you have an exit somewhere. We must not forget that in this kind of discussion about it. That means that I am concerned that freedom of expression should also be maintained. But the government is doing a lot in this area. As part of the strategy we have put forward against hateful opinions, three research missions have been announced this year. There are knowledge summaries and surveys of hateful opinions, which the HL Centre is working on, and which will just answer how big this is, how much there is, there is an attitude study on equality, discrimination and hateful expressions, which has been awarded to Fafo, and it is the scope of hateful opinions, which has been awarded to the Institute for Social Research. So we want from different sides to cover up quite a lot of what I think the question is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e658	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e664	I have to say hello from Sunndal. When I visited the aluminium mill on Monday, I met employees and trusted people who fear their jobs if the Stortinget gives sovereignty over the power – which is crucial for the Norwegian process industry around the country – if the EU is given the right to dispose of parts of this. In the case of Acer, the country is divided. An overall trade union movement and a large majority of the population are opposed to Norway joining ACER. The environmental movement is largely opposed to several power cables abroad, as is the trade movement. But then the Labour Party has concluded an agreement with the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens on inclusion in the third energy market package. This agreement is of little value as long as there is no legally binding agreement with the EU on how EEA law will be practised. The agreement between the parties states that: Inner. 175 L for 2017-2018: ‘It is therefore necessary to gain experience and carry out thorough analyses before the capacity to exchange is further increased.’ But from the comments, we also know that the planned NorthConnect power cable will be processed before the Energy Act is amended to make it only Statnet that can own and operate foreign tables. This is not a matter of concern. In his response to the representative, Slagsvold Vedum, Solberg said that NorthConnect's concession treatment is going as planned, but Industry Energy says that only after the 2020s will we have enough information and experience from the two cables that are now being built. Can Erna Solberg guarantee that she will wait for the experiences of the two cables before finishing NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e676	We're going to finalise NorthConnect – as I said – in line with what we've made an agreement with the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party on these issues. I believe that it is also important for the development of new renewable energy and for the stability of the price of energy in Norway that we have a good energy exchange for other countries. It is security of supply. It is a question of achieving climate objectives through the EU energy package. It's also so that we have national control over all of the resources. I see that there is a heated debate on these issues. I believe that many of these questions are also quite incorrect, for example. related to what we lose out on so-called ownership, and the transfer of sovereignty we carry out. It is that we have the most integrated part of Europe's energy markets in the Nordic region. We are part of the European energy market, in the sense that we are fully integrated with three EU countries, Denmark, Finland and Sweden. In addition, there is already a great deal of exchange with the Baltic countries, with cables there. This means that it is probably the area the rest of Europe is looking at — considering which other places they are going to make use of bottlenecks so that newly developed renewables can get a market price that makes us expand even more. This is about the need for renewable energy to emerge in Europe where power is consumed, that it is not stopped by bottlenecks on the road, or that national regulation prevents it. The only way we can reduce the use of coal power is simply to get enough renewable energy and make the market big enough to achieve our objectives of the Paris Agreement. I believe that the climate challenges are such that we need to think bigger than just on the national market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e687	I must probably invite Erna Solberg to Sunndal, Høyanger or Karmøy for a trip to learn from the industry, for an increase in the electricity price with just a few ears will dramatically impact the process industry, and they are naturally concerned that more cables to the rest of the world will lead to greater exports of electricity, and also to the harmonisation of prices, which is the whole purpose of the Acer and of getting an integrated power market across Europe. The EU has a maximum price difference of 2 øre per kWh. If prices in Scotland versus Norway are to be considered, prices must rise in Norway and fall in Scotland. That's why the trade union movement is very concerned about several cables and about submitting to ACER. I want to repeat the question, which was not answered: can Erna Solberg guarantee that she will wait for the experience with the other two cables, as it says in the agreement, before giving an answer to NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e694	This government is concerned with predictability in the policy towards commercial operators and Norwegian business. We're going to follow the plan that's laid down, and we're going to follow it in line with what's agreed on at Stortinget, with a broad majority attached to it. I have answered that, and this is an answer to the matter. We're not going to wait until we see the effect of new ones – we're going to take the decisions attached to the application. New cables beyond that, we'll have to evaluate gradually, depending on how the development is. But it is also important to remember: many talk about how Norway will develop other energy sources in the future. They won't be expanded if we don't have a reserve on that force. Today, at least in the medium term, we have a surplus of power in Norway. The energy efficiency improvements we make in our market will not be effective if we do not actually participate in the market, and then there will be no sea windmills, new wind farms or more solar power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e701	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e706	Here was an answer. Thank you for that, it's eye-catching. For the answer zeros what is stated in the agreement, as the Labour Party now highlights in any debate, namely that experience should be gained and thorough analyses should be carried out before the exchange capacity is further increased. So it's now confirmed by Solberg that that's not true. You treat NorthConnect before you get experience with the other two cables. Everybody out there should notice. Furthermore, the agreement states that the Norwegian authorities shall have full control over all decisions relevant to energy security in Norway. But how can Norwegian authorities guarantee this? When did Erna Solberg gain legal competence to assess EU law? When could Erna Solberg provide guarantees on behalf of a Union she is not even part of, which is dynamic, and which can change her policy in the future? How can we have full control when we do not actually have full control of the European Union, to which we then give control? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e713	The conclusion that the representative Moxnes now drew from what I said was wrong. As he heard, I said we should do the concession treatment in line with what is in the agreement with the Workers' Party. Try to add the answer I have given, a different content, is wrong, wrong, wrong. So I hope we've clarified it quite clearly. I believe that we can stand by all parts of that agreement with regard to what is the authority of ACER, what is the development of it, and of course we can put our foot down and say that evolution goes too far, at a later stage if we don't think that that's right, what's happening within this. That's how it works. In addition, this belief that there are now some people who believe that they should take over Norwegian national resources related to this is completely wrong. What you want to achieve is an internal market that works the way our market works, in the Nordic countries, in other parts, so that we solve our climate goals. And my question should really be: Will those who are against this really solve the climate goals and make sure that we reach the Paris agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e723	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e729	I think we need to ask for an exact answer from the Prime Minister, because we are not asking about future power cables. We're not asking about new power cables. We're asking for NorthConnect. The setting says that the NorthConnect concession treatment should continue, and that means that NorthConnect can be approved. Our question is whether there are any assumptions in the agreement between the Right, the Labour Party and the Advance Party around NorthConnect. Then the Prime Minister said that the concession treatment should continue under the terms of that agreement, and then I asked, "What are the conditions?"
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e736	It is a prerequisite for us to be able to process this concession, but we must ensure that there are clear and clear requirements, in line with what is in the agreement with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e741	The last main question will then be from Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e746	I'm going to ask about the tripartite cooperation. It is central to the Norwegian social model, and it has been very important when we have faced major challenges, whether it was unemployment in the 1990s or when one was going to carry out the pension reform in the 2000s. It would not have been possible to properly anchor these challenges and solutions to them without the confidence that one has been able to establish between the employee side, the employer side and the board of directors for quite many years. Now we're facing new challenges. We know that the need for skills increases, both in individual workers and in enterprises, and also in different workplaces. We can also use tripartite cooperation to meet this new major challenge. In any case, it is important for the Labour Party to do so. It says in our program, we have 30 suggestions on it. It is a priority social reform for us, but it is not possible to implement or develop it in a good way without being firmly anchored by the social partners. I find that the Prime Minister often emphasises party cooperation as important, so I am a little surprised when I see the distance between words and action in some contexts. Let me do some examples: The Government has amended the Work Environment Act. They have the disputed working time selection, without the support of the parties. They set up a so-called expert selection for a serious construction industry recently, without representing employees or employers in the construction industry. And most recently, the government is setting up a selection to investigate the need for continuing training in the labour market, without the employee side being involved. It surprises me that when the Prime Minister puts down this selection and 14 experts are going to sit in it, not one of them is from the employee side. Then I almost have to ask: is it such that the Prime Minister does not regard the employee organisations as experts in his own situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e759	I consider the employee organisations and the social partners to be experts on a lot of things, but it often happens that it may be a good idea to gather their expertise in resource groups into public samples, who contribute and make recordings and issues, precisely because there may be a lot of employee organisations. In the government's contact committee we have four employee organisations, and we have four employers' organisations. If any sample we put down is to be representative of the different views and groups of all the employee organisations they organise, we will get very large samples and groups. For this reason, it is often the case that, in order to get the breadth of views in tripartite cooperation, it is advisable to have the type of resource groups associated with public sample sizes that are involved in public sample sizes. Then we often ask organisations to propose experts as they think they cover the pages, the themes, on which they are concerned, even though they do not represent organisations as such. We think that's a good way to solve some of those challenges. Then, for example, I can. address the issue related to the construction industry. It is easy to say that we should have one employee representative and one construction representative. The problem is, they don't agree on who to represent them. The problem is that the construction industry has an incredible number of different parts, and many will feel that you represent one part and not all. This is why it is better to have a wide range of skills and expertise in the areas in which they have more views from the different industries in the construction sector and from the different organisations in the construction sector, just to get a wide-ranging basis. Therefore, there will be a resource group, a reference group, for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e766	This I thought was a rather funny reason. So you're talking about putting employee organisations on the outside of a selection because there's so many of them, and then you're going to have expert groups that are wide and wide-ranging. In other words, those who are trusted, who are really chosen by someone, and who represent a large width of the workers, still represent fewer, in the view of the Prime Minister, than these hand-picked, selected experts. The so-called expert selection for a serious construction industry is a very clear example. There are, for example: The Joint Alliance and the BNL gather and send feedback to the selection and to their government, and they have also asked to be part of this. They're part of the political development itself, because these are people who have fun on. I understand the Prime Minister so that they may be involved, but they must be involved at a later time. That seems to me to be a slightly special view of tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e771	There is an error and a misconception that a reference sample or a public sample resource group will arrive at a later stage. They don't. They are an integral part of the work that expert groups use as a reference to discussing the themes and getting input from. That's why it's nice to have a width of that kind of selection. That is why we often have that kind of reference groups. It's not like these public samples represent people. There are experts who represent their professional competence in that particular area to contribute to something else. Those representing someone are in this context in a reference group to be involved in ensuring that the expert committee asks the right questions. We get a broader representation from both employers and employees by putting together reference samples, resource groups, to different samples that contribute to how and what. Then, of course, the reports from all the selections will be sent to the hearing with the possibility for organisations to make recordings. That's what comes after.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e778	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e792	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Per Espen Stoknes to the Prime Minister, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, will be taken up by the representative Oddvar Igland. Question 8, from the representative Ole André Myhrvold to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Nordlund to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 15, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be taken up by the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e818	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e826	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, is raised by the representative Oddvar Igland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e831	I have the following questions for the Minister for Knowledge and Integration: ‘The municipalities are committed to ensuring the best possible transition from kindergarten to school/SFO, and therefore many municipalities have developed their own standards to ensure the most equivalent offer possible. Now it turns out that municipalities cannot require private kindergartens and schools to use the municipality’s standards. Does the Council of State agree that this appears paradoxical, and in that case what will the Council of State do to ensure that municipalities can make the same demands for the private as for the municipal kindergartens and schools in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e846	It is important to facilitate the safe transition of children from kindergarten to school and SFO. Co-operation between kindergarten and school is a prerequisite for this. It does not currently provide clear rules or a mutual obligation for kindergartens and schools to cooperate on the transition of children. The government wants to ensure that all children have a safe and good transition from kindergarten to school and SFO. We therefore sent out a proposal at the hearing in June 2017 to legislate a mutual obligation for kindergarten and school owners to cooperate on the transition of children. It was proposed that the obligation should apply to all kindergartens and schools, including private schools. Furthermore, it was proposed that the school owner should have the primary responsibility for cooperation and draw up a plan to provide children with a safe and good transition. This plan will apply to both municipal and private kindergartens. Since there is a significant increase in the proportion of primary public schools, in most cases the school owner will be the municipality. Private schools and fresh schools can be based on a different educational direction and can be organised differently from public schools. Schools may therefore need to have separate transitional arrangements that differ from those of the municipality. These schools should therefore be given the opportunity to draw up their own plans for their transition to their schools, in the same way as municipalities do. I will put forward proposals to legislate an obligation to cooperate on the transition for the Storting during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e861	I thank you for your answer. Well, that's what the Council of State is about, so we have almost 50 pst. private kindergartens. I myself am an active local politician in the council of Asker Municipality, where this is the situation. We have now worked on such standards, and as I perceive it and also register the hearing response that KS has sent into the matter the Council of State mentions, it will not, as a result of this proposal, imply an obligation for the private kindergartens and schools to follow this. Can the Council of States confirm that this is the case, or will amendments be made to the proposal submitted, which will ensure that this is the case? After all, KS has called for a law home that obliges private kindergarten owners and school owners to participate in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e870	Now the representative is well aware that it is the King of the Council of States who will be presented with the content of messages and propositions before they are presented to the Stortinget, as well as in this case. But as I said in my post: Private schools and fresh schools can be based on a different educational direction and have a different organisation than public schools, so that they may need their own transitional arrangements that differ from that of the municipality. We have notified that there will be an obligation to ensure the transition from kindergarten to school. This will apply to both private kindergartens, municipal kindergartens, municipal schools and private schools, but I assume that the representative also agrees with me that private schools, fresh schools, which have a different educational direction, for example. Stone schools, must have an opportunity to organize it a little bit differently than what you do in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e877	I definitely don't disagree with that, but at the same time, it's important that you take over the fact that the kindergarten may have to deal with different schools in transition, and the same goes for the opposite way. Then it's an advantage to have a common framework that everyone has to deal with, whether it's private or municipal kindergartens. As the Ministry also mentions in this consultation proposal, it is pointed out that what is associated with ensuring the best possible transition does not go into the field of pedagogical education – I note that the Council of State is taking it forward in terms of colleges – but there are other issues, above all, which are just to ensure a safer and better transition from kindergarten to school than many children may experience today. I just want to end by asking the State Council: when can we wait the matter for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e886	I guess the representative is also aware that the government never announces the day a case comes up, but I said in my post «in the spring». So I don't think there's any real disagreement in this case. As the first government, the blue-green government promotes an obligation to ensure this transition. That's important, and that's right, because we know that early work is necessary, and to ensure the safe transition from kindergarten to school we have to do. Then, too – at least we who are on the blue-green side of the political scale – we must respect the fact that fresh schools must have a slightly different approach than that of the municipal school, but it will be an obligation to ensure a safe transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e896	‘The NRC reports that Norwegian mobile customers pay significantly more for mobile data than our Nordic neighbouring countries. In Norway we pay on average 97 kroner per gigabyte, while in Denmark customers pay 30 kroner and in Finland 13 kroner. The Consumer Council, an independent mobile analyst and a professor of competition economy from the University of Bergen believe that this is due to a lack of competition in the mobile market. What does the Council of State think should be done to enable Norwegian consumers to have data traffic on equal terms with the other Nordic countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e903	Let me thank you for the question about a topic that is important. Digital communication has become increasingly important in our society, and in business it has been used for a long time. The fact that people connect online through their mobile phones is becoming increasingly important both for well-being and for a working everyday life for most people. That is why I am concerned that we should have both good coverage and competitive prices in Norway. As the representative raises the question, we're not quite where we're going to be. We are very far ahead of coverage in Norway, much better than in most other countries, but on the cost side it has resulted in higher costs, as one here shows in the question. All in all, despite the fact that we live relatively widely and have a different housing policy than the other Nordic countries, we have very high quality mobile networks. The second thing I'm going to do is we've had an increase in investment. That in itself is good, because it shows that we deliver a better offer to the inhabitants. But it has a cost, which has to be covered. When I say that, it's because I was recently in Barcelona at a major telecom conference and had a round table meeting with communications ministers from a number of countries around the world. The steady feedback around the table was that they were concerned that the investments were falling. In Norway, they go up, and this suggests that we have competition, not just at a low price, but on good terms. That's enough to affect the price level we have. We closely monitor developments in the mobile market and compare developments with our neighbouring countries, as the figures from the representative show. We are committed to strengthening competition and have put up some things through, among other things. Digital agenda for Norway. There's a toolbox that consists of both market regulation and frequency management. Just because we have the price level we have, it is a sign that competition is not strong enough in terms of costs or price. But we have a strong competition in coverage. Norway is therefore one of two countries in Europe that have found reasons to maintain the regulation of the market for access to mobile networks. Telenor’s position in the market is so strong that it is still considered necessary to have sector-specific regulation to ensure that competitors have predictable access to Telenor’s infrastructure. It is itself a signal that we are not satisfied with the way the market is, overall, although we have a lot to boast about, as I mentioned. The frequency management has facilitated competition in the market, inter alia: when using frequency caps when auctioning out. There is a ceiling on the amount of frequency that one or more operators can acquire in the allocation process. We also do other things to stimulate the supply side to reduce drive costs, as we have just done with the digging regulations. We hope and believe that over time this will help reduce the cost level and become competitive with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e918	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that some areas are good in Norway. But this is about the most price, because I'm concerned that the digitisation of society can be slowed down by using data too little. There is a strong transition to using 5G within the mobile network. Now I don't know if Norway is technologically ahead and best in the world, but we really should be. Then my question is, are we now pricing ourselves, from being a world-leading mobile country to actually getting far down on the list?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e923	My answer to that is no, I don't think we praise ourselves. That we have a higher price per unit, that shows the numbers. In terms of coverage, we're among the best, if not the best, in the world. When it comes to the speed of data transmission, we're also among the very best in the world. In this sense, one might say that there is a connection between the expectations we have for mobile use in everyday life and the demands for both data quantity and speed, which makes the price a little higher, so that one can defend it against the investments to be made. There's a relationship between what you pay and what a sheep does. I think most people will pay a little more if they get a significantly better service. What is important here, however, and which was the starting point of the question, is whether one can ensure that competition is good enough, so that one does not pay more than one must. There I mentioned some measures, and we have more, both 700 MHz bands and that we are working on a law on cost reduction measures for the development of high-speed networks, which will help to further strengthen competition. I believe that we have to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e930	I see that these are points of light, and not least that you follow closely. But I'm really worried about it with 5G, which is now at full speed in, for example. The United States has come very far. We have countries in Europe that have come very far. Is the Council of State concerned about the speed at which we introduce 5G in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e935	With regard to mobile network quality for coverage, for speed and for investment reasons, Norway has little reason to be concerned. Because, as I mentioned, my experience from Barcelona is that our neighbouring countries, our European friends and not least other countries outside Europe are experiencing a reduction in investment in many places. We have experienced a sharp increase. When we took over in 2013, the investments in the telecommunications industry were 7 billion. kr. Now they're over 10 billion. kr. It shows that the framework conditions for making money by wanting to invest are good. We also see that Norway has a world record of speed within the 4G network, and we are far ahead of 5G. What I'm concerned about is that there should be a balance between how good the network is and what we consumers pay for, and where competition is essential. There we have more grips, both of which we practice, and which we are going to introduce in the coming time, and we are going to be able to take care of what I perceive that the representative Gunnes is very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e945	I could actually think of some additional questions for the previous questions, but I will stick to the question I have submitted in this round: The Court of Auditors has discovered that the objectives for more goods on the track and cool have not been achieved. On competitive routes, road transport has increased as much or more than maritime and rail transport. The study shows that road transport has been faster, cheaper and more flexible, and measures have been put in place to strengthen the competitiveness of rail freight. Has the Council taken concrete action to achieve its objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e954	It's an important topic that's being addressed here. That's something we've been working hard on, but we're obviously not on target. The National Audit Office's report was initially very good. It gave a nuanced picture of the reasons why the objectives we have had – some of them most verbally communicated over time, some of them gradually fixed in staging and government – have not been achieved. This report, I must remind you, had a time horizon from 2010 to 2015, and there one shows that one has not got that development one would. The press release that came out afterwards, I think, was less nuanced, and it would be nice for the person who has shaped the social debate too much. But look at the main report, see some things that work, but also some things that we need to get better at. We have launched a lot of measures, some of them before 2015, but a lot of them really don't get any effect until the last few years. It makes me much more optimistic about what numbers we'll be able to get, as it evolves. Let me give you some examples. Firstly, the press release stated that the accident rate for heavy goods vehicles was very high between 2010 and 2013. That's what I thought was a sad time to put a dot on, because from 2014 on, it's been a marked decline. It shows that road transport is not as accidental now as it was according to what was communicated. In the last two years, there has been an increase in rail freight transport in the case of continents. There has been a sharp increase in timber transport by rail. Had an extended period, one would probably see that one has reached a point where things point in the right direction, and not in the wrong direction. When we look at what is happening with regard to goods at sea, even in the nations – as I believe the representative reads diligently – there was an increase in maritime transport in the year that went on. We see that the aid scheme that the government got a majority in the Grand Duchy to implement, which came into force last year, has produced greater results in terms of contracts entered into than what we could really dream of, a system that is going to continue and will grow to a greater extent in the future. This makes me think we've seen tools that have started to reverse this trend. I think it's right that we build better roads, that we facilitate the fact that the goods that are going to go on the road have conditions that enable drivers on the road to live better than they have. At the same time, I am concerned that the amount of goods that are going to go far and that should have traveled collectively on the railway or on the keel is getting better competitive conditions. That is why the strengthening we have done on the railways, which is why the strengthening and support mechanisms we have in the coastal area are an important part of achieving these objectives, so that the next national audit report does not have a negative sign, but that, on the contrary, we can say that we are now seeing better times.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e969	I thank you for your answer. I have recorded that there is a positive signal after the incentives that have been done when it comes to cooling. But the signal is more alarming when it comes to orbit. Is it perhaps time to assess a similar incentive for goods on the road as it has now been given to goods on the sea, to ensure that there is better competition for road versus road conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e976	It's some of what I have on my block, to see how we can stimulate the use of railways in different ways. I think – based on the experience I have after talking to the freight transport industry – that one of the most important things for them is that there is predictability of deliveries. When we've been visiting CargoNet, when we've talked to different actors at railway terminals, when we've talked to the transport or commodity owners, everyone has pointed out that it doesn't help that the railway promises very much if every five departures are cancelled, as it has been in periods. Then there is not enough predictability that the freight customer dares to use the railway, because there is often a truck at the opposite end and is waiting to get the goods right up to the shop or factory. That is why we have now included in the national transport plan a freight package of 18 billion. kr. The railway company said – when it existed – that for the first time there was money coming together with the promises of goods on the railway. It's a freight billion that's in there. [[President clubs]] Upgrading infrastructure is the first means of delivering more. [[The President cut off]] The aid scheme may:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e983	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e988	In order to address this issue, forestry has now been exposed to a clear warning signal about the transport of timber, particularly linked to Bane NOR's contribution to the action programme for the rail sector in 2018–2029. They record with great amazement that several measures in the Freight Package Inland have been proposed to replace. There is a special situation at the Norwegian timber terminal on Kongsvinger. It's the real bottleneck for the combined transport of work on the track now. Norsenga differs from other terminals because it also has a transfer point from path to path, and it also has an important function to connect two smaller sets of vehicles to one. Today there is a capacity of around 700000 m 3, but the long-term need is about 1,000,000 m 3. The consequence is that excess goods end up on the road. Is the goal and progress in Freight Package Inland still at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e999	This is also an important part of it with goods. Often we talk about goods in the form of conteins, but just the timber industry has had a adventurous growth in terms of volume on the railway. I would like to be able to go on with that. Getting rid of this on long journeys on the road is important. At the same time, we have taken many steps for the timber industry, which means that the timber industry was as late as last week and celebrated with cake at the Road Directorate because by upgrading the road network one has cut their transport costs to get to the terminals, by 50 million. kr. But then it is also important that terminals are upgraded, that there are several freight trains running, that one has increased capacity. I have visited the terminal – and other terminals in the area – that the representative mentions. It was a great pleasure when we presented our freight package, because finally there was an overall approach. What's also fun is that when we're in Mo in Rana, they point to investments that have to be made in the interior to make goods work better. It is my ambition that we should still, of course, implement this. [[President clubs]] The Railway Directorate comes with its action plan on 9 April, and it will be the next step... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1006	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1014	‘The submarine wreck U-864 outside of Fedje was provided with a flooding aid which had been completed in July 2016. The flooding and the bottom of the sea will have to be settled for 18 months before further action can be continued. The size has previously asked the government to consider two alternative environmental measures: lifting of cargo and covering of wreckage, or covering of wreckage. Can the Government inform the Government of what options are being investigated and planned for when environmental measures are involved in the Fedje submarine disaster, and what is the progress plan for this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1021	I appreciate the commitment of the representative to this submarine wreck. We also thought we'd get it fixed, and not just figured it out. It has been lying there for too long without having been sufficiently done. As a denominator, a support filling has been established. I have informed the Storting about this several times, and we have had rounds in the Questionnaire on this before, so that the information will now be essentially the same as one received last time. We have gone on from investigating this, as the previous government has done, to actually implementing measures. Regardless of the type of solution that one will choose with regard to mercury itself, it was important to establish an aid package. It has been built, it has cost a lot of money, but now in March we received a letter from the Swedish Coast Guard that they believe that this measure has been successful, that things have established, things are stable, and that we can work on what will be the final solution. We know that there are different wishes locally. At the same time, I have registered with local debate that very many people are just concerned that we need to do something now. We sit and make the latest assessments of what are the reasonable measures. We're going to have an up-to-date round with the Coastal Works where they make their assessments, and then of course I'm going to make sure that the Storting is informed about that. This is going to cost money, and the Storting will then have to be involved in granting that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1030	Thanks for the answer. I'm wondering what the time aspect of what the government is now assessing, what time the government will get information about what kind of alternative environmental measures the government will recommend. I see that the Transport Committee has received a letter from representatives of the submarine operation in Fedje and Bergen asking for an assessment of new technology. The decision to move on with two options is already six years old, and they fear that the Storting and the Government will take their stand on an old arrangement. Technology may have developed. It is a clear desire locally to raise the load, so that one does not just get a covering of the mercury.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1035	I am concerned that we handle this in the best possible environmental way. That means that we have to deal with it so that you avoid spreading in a long-term perspective. Some of the risk assessment carried out by the Coastal Works for us is about the risk of swirling things that spread further by starting digging in the sediments. When we discussed this initially, there were a lot of us who wanted to raise this because you figured you could pick up containers and handle them safely. When one looked at the eight containers that have been raised, one saw that seven of them were rusted healthy, and they were empty for content. This means that the assessments would like to change in relation to the ones you originally had. That is where I want to be safe – before we make a final decision – about the risk of spreading mercury further, rather than actually dealing with it. There is no final decision. I am concerned that the Coastal Plant is following the technological developments that are taking place. I reassure myself that they are following this closely, and then we have to make sure that we find a solution that is practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1042	I would like to ask when the Council of State sees that one can take a decision on the matter. I'm very aware of the different assessments about this with the certainty of one option or another. There are now several trade unions that are making contact and are concerned that underestimating the damage by leaving it lying, that it will eventually be able to break out and transform into more harmful compounds and enter the circuit like this. But what you're busy about is getting ahead or getting a decision. The coastal population, and especially those who live in Sweden, have been working on this for very many years. Can I understand it so that the Council of State is moving more towards coverage – based on how it assesses the professional arguments that are currently leading?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1049	I have not drawn any conclusions, but there is no doubt that the technical arguments for coverage – which must be weighed up and down, for and against, in terms of technology, costs, risks and opportunities – are the most sound environmental management in the long term. But as I said, we haven't concluded that. There has been a well-known point of view from the Coastal Works, even when they presented their last report. I'm concerned that we should be able to solve this in the best possible way. We've been working on it all the time to get a decision base that's good enough. I also believe that when the people of Fedje look back at what has happened, one sees that there have been physical things in recent years. After many years of investigations, we've made decisions, we've spent money, we've physically taken action, and now we're in the next phase. I understand well the zeal or impatience after solving this, but there is reason to believe that things will now happen faster than what has been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1059	I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following question: ‘Treatments in short distances are three of the Oslo hospitals in the bottom layer for the proportion of patients with cerebral infarction admitted four hours after symptoms. For example, while the national average is 42.1 pst. Lovisenberg on 29 p.m., cf. Norwegian brain battle register. One main reason for this is that there may often be a lack of clarity for health professionals where the patient should be. Any loss of time here can cost life or lead to major damage to the patient. Will the Council of State ensure that Health South-East ensures the establishment of a joint reception for stroke patients in Oslo?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1066	We have a good stroke treatment in Norway. We have good results for survival after a stroke. Over 90 pst. patients are treated in unit stroke. That is a good result. We have a lot to gain from good organization in the acute stroke treatment. Rapid emergency treatment can be essential for survival and for a good life after the stroke. Last year, revised professional guidelines and the first phase of the emergency phase of the brain stroke were presented. That's good, but there are challenges with the stroke treatment in the Oslo hospital area, as the representative points out. An investigation has been carried out on impact treatment in Health South-East. It has resulted in the report Acute and subacute treatment of strokes in Health South-East, 2016. The report states that the main purpose of Oslo Slagsenter, ‘one door door, several doors open’, is to collect all diagnostics and emergency treatment in one place. The aim is to ensure that all patients have equal access to diagnostics and, where appropriate, blood-closing and “propping” treatments as quickly as possible, and at the highest professional level. Patients in need of further treatment and rehabilitation receive such follow-up in their local settings. The Health South-East Board has submitted this report as a guide to health business development plans. I refer to my answer to written question No. 680 from January, where I explain in more detail this and Oslo University Hospital’s investigation of the brain stroke treatment. Health South-East reports that they have close dialogue with Oslo University Hospital and that they have clear expectations that the model of ‘one door in’ will be introduced. Health South-East further informs that Oslo University Hospital – in dialogue with other hospitals in Oslo – is working specifically to enable the hospital to realize the «one door in» for patients with a suspected stroke in Oslo. The aim is to establish a single control unit as soon as possible – and at the latest in the autumn of 2018. A process is started to clarify how thrombetomitis can be performed on Ullevål in relation to the Oslo Sickness Area. Oslo University Hospital is working to improve the internal organisation of the hospital, including the establishment of a percussion phone, as well as new beds and reinforced security staff. Health South-East has close dialogue with Oslo University Hospital on this matter, and I assume that the model of «one door in» is now being realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1083	I thank you for the answer, which I think was quite clear. There is an important message from the Council of State to the effect that an overall battle reception should be set up in Oslo by the autumn of 2018 at the latest, which I see as a good news for those who may be at risk of being hit by it, and that is something that has been very long awaited. It is – I think – an almost alarming situation that we have been discussing this in the Oslo area for so many years. In 2015, there was a dramatic report from the State Health Authority on patients who were transported between different hospitals in Oslo. With the short distances we have here, this should have been solved a lot earlier. Would what the Council of State called "fishing" for blood clots, i.e., with catheters, be in the common battlegate, so that everyone can access it in the emergency phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1090	Firstly, I agree with the representative's description that this has taken a long time. I think, among other things, it is related to the fact that one has had an ongoing discussion about the hospital structure in the Oslo area, and therefore this issue has also been considered in the context of it. But there is now a need to get a better offer. In this, it's what a public can call clobbering, also a question, and it'll now be clarified in the process how this too can be done on Ullevål in connection with the Battle of Oslo Sickness Area. That's part of the work that's going on right now. I come from an area where this is done in a university hospital, in Stavanger, with good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1097	I thank you again for an informative additional response. There are different numbers in different countries on how often patients can get help using catheters that fish out blood clots in the brain. For the patient group that has such a serious form of stroke, it is a crucial tool to use. As far as I've seen, the average figures in Norway are for those who get the help of that method, at 1.8 pst, while in Bern in Switzerland it's at 18 pst. It is recommended professionally – I think – that between 5 pst. and 15 pst. patients could benefit from it. I think it is very important to follow up on the fact that more is being introduced in the stroke treatment in Norway, that more patients can get less serious injuries afterwards, and that more lives can be saved. An additional question relates to thrombolysis in the ambulances, i.e. the possibility of getting diagnosis and assistance during transportation – how does that stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1106	Yes, there's something Norway is now trying out at the Hospital Eastfold, and it's going to be very exciting to see the results. There's something you do in collaboration with the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation. So some of the challenges in Norway related to this with blood clot fishing have been that we are a long-range country, and traditionally this has only been done in regional hospitals. A model has been developed at the University Hospital in Stavanger that has documented good results, and that is also the background for the decision-making forum to say that in all health regions, one will now assess whether there are several hospitals that can do this. That work is in progress, and what I referred to in Health South-East is also part of that work. This is likely to lead to better results for Norway in this area, just as we have very good results on stroke treatment in general. It is also important to remember that the greatest delay occurs in the patient and its relatives. Therefore, the government has also launched a campaign to inform about the symptoms of stroke.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1118	‘Syrian women are forced into six men who hand out emergency aid on behalf of the United Nations and international relief organisations. These shocking stories are presented in a recent report by the UN Population Fund, UNFPA. According to the BBC, some help organisations choose to close their eyes to the abuses. Norway is a significant humanitarian player and gives, not least to the victims of the war in Syria. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to stop these horrendous abuses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1125	First of all, I'm very pleased with the question and the commitment that lies behind it. This is a practice that has recently also been revealed in large relief organisations. Unfortunately, it's not just Syria, it's quite general where there's conflict, and where there's relief organisations inside. This has led the Minister of Development and I have sent a letter to all UN organisations and other organisations receiving Norwegian support, where we are very clear about what we expect of those who are our partners, what we expect them to do as part of their employer's responsibility, and what we expect them to do when they work with local partners. We believe that this is absolutely necessary. The letter has received a very good response, and we have received many messages from both UN organisations and others that they appreciate that we set clear demands. One of the tools we have if we see this happening is for example. to stop the aid. It is dramatic because it will primarily affect people who are affected by conflict, but I still think it is important to set clear standards and examples for what we accept and do not accept. It is a question that I have also discussed with the UN Special Envoy for Sexualized Violence in Conflict, Pramila Patten, and by Monday at the latest, I discussed it with the Special Envoy for Humanitarian Affairs in Syria. He is familiar with cases from various organisations where in particular the distribution of food is done in exchange for sexual services. There is no doubt that sexual abuse is actively used as part of the conflict picture in many places. Many of the women and men who are exposed to it become the most marginalized. Pramila Patten, as I mentioned, mentions it as a kind of double stigmatisation, that they don't get any community to come back to when they've been sexually assaulted elsewhere. What we see is that the need to work with these issues is just going to increase, precisely because very many people are in very vulnerable phases in conflict areas or areas on the way out of conflict. Unfortunately, we have also seen that in areas where women return as refugees, sexualised violence is used more generally, not only by relief organisations – not by aid organisations as a whole, but by some of those associated with relief organisations – as part of this picture. It's a practice that's totally unacceptable. We have increased support for women and men who experience sexualised and gender-based violence, and we have also increased support for those organisations that work as our closest partners with it, among others. UNFPA and UN Women.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1134	I thank you for a very good answer. Now the foreign minister says that this has been revealed especially when it comes to the distribution of food. Is there any problem with the emergency aid device, that there is more frequent occurrence than with other types of emergency delivery? Is there anything you can learn from the way emergency aid is given, what kind of emergency aid is given? That's the one question. The second is, do we know anything about the areas where this occurs to a greater extent than in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1143	Of course, we also consider whether the way emergency aid is provided is a factor that can help reduce the size. We don't know the extent, but we're based on the reports and the revelations that have come. I would like to stress that they are all, most auxiliary workers are doing an incredibly solid and good job and are not guilty of these abuses. What we've seen is that in many places it can be very difficult to get to with humanitarian aid. Access is difficult, especially for policy reasons, and it is often very difficult to obtain emergency aid other than for example. loads with water and food. In some areas, we try projects to switch to cash payments, which have been very successful, just to avoid any of it and at the same time get a local economy going. But how real access is will depend very much on where and what conflict situation we're talking about. It affects flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1150	In order to discover that these monstrous acts take place, we need to have both good arrangements in the relief organisations and good control by the authorities, but we also depend on women and also the men who are talking about here by the foreign minister being afraid to report it. What kind of initiative can we take to ensure that it is easy for women and men who are subjected to that type of abuse to tell about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1155	In general, many of the auxiliaries working on the ground, regardless of whether there should be a case where there are staff members of auxiliaries behind them, or there are warring parties behind them, experience that the threshold to tell them is often high. This I talked to Pramila Patten about last Friday. What she said was that in very many contexts there is also no functioning legal system, and that means that those who have done so are unlikely to be punished. The stigma of telling you that you've been sexually assaulted is so much bigger, especially when someone can't be punished, that it's hard for many to say from. I think that's a trend we have to turn around. We have to work both with protective measures, we have to work with psychosocial measures, because many are severely traumatised after what they have experienced, and we have to work with capacity building, in particular with regard to the state of law and the judicial system, so that it is possible to place those who have committed the abuses under responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1163	This question, from the representative Ole André Myhrvold to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1168	I'm sorry that I put the wrong government council at the door of an incubator. My question is about the Acer energy agency and sounds as follows: ‘Jan R. Steinholt writes on 13 March in an article on neitileu.no that the Energy Agency Acer ‘is to draw up and manage in accordance with network rules for the flow of gas similar to those applicable in the field of electricity’. The article also states that by sub-schemeing ACERs, Norway may be forced to sell gas to the EU at a lower price than could be achieved elsewhere. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs guarantee that such a situation will never occur?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1177	The representative is concerned about the conditions for Norwegian gas in Europe. I share that commitment. The European gas market is of great importance to Norway, and only in 2017 did we export 122 billion standard cubic metres of natural gas, otherwise a record for the third consecutive year. So to say all the gas we produce goes to the EU, and we now cover 25 pst. of the total gas demand. Norwegian gas is wanted by importing countries in Europe. It was last confirmed on Monday when I brought the Belgian Energy Minister out on Troll A, which is the very heart of our gas machine. EU rules on the internal gas market are laid down in the Gas Market Directive. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, Norway is part of the EU internal energy market and has incorporated gas market Directives I and II into Norwegian law. Gas market Directive III is treated this week as part of the work on the third energy market package. Both the second and third gas market Directives distinguish the upstream pipeline network from the downstream pipeline network, including transmission pipes carrying gas between the different parts of the system. The Norwegian transport system transporting the gas to the continent and the United Kingdom is defined as upstream pipeline networks and meets the requirements of the Directive for such pipes. In Norway we do not have transmission pipes in the sense of the directive. In the third gas market Directive, the provision relating to upstream pipeline systems is continued without amendment. The network rules to which the representative refers are linked to transmission pipes, so we do not have such pipes in Norway. In other words, ACER will not have authority over our upstream pipeline network. The article further refers to the fact that ACER can impose on Norway a joint obligation to sell gas to the EU, at a lower price than could be achieved elsewhere. The solidarity obligation I am assuming here is linked to the regulation on gas security, and this regulation is decided not to be included in the EEA Agreement. I can thus assure the representative that the price of Norwegian gas in the future, as today, will be determined by the market, and that the gas will flow your profits best. At the same time, I would like to stress that a well-functioning integrated gas market with efficient price mechanisms and sufficient infrastructure in Europe is also important for Norway as an exporting country. Therefore, Norway has recognised and supported efforts to further develop the EU internal gas market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1192	I agree with that. With regard to ensuring access to and transport through pipelines in Europe, probably gas competitors Norway and Russia have more conflicting interests than Norway has with the EU. It's not just something I mean, but it also means Professor Øystein Noreng at the BI School of Business. According to him, Norway and Russia together have a solid basis to cover gas supplies to both France, the United Kingdom and Germany, and to encourage the EU to invest more heavily in natural gas. In future, how does the Council of States think we can take care of Norwegian interests as a gas exporting country, all the time we are now tied to the EU Energy Union, which primarily serves the interests of buyers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1199	I would like to stress that we are already linked to the EU Energy Union through the first and second energy market package. What we're talking about now is the third energy market package and the establishment of the Agency for the Cooperation of National Regulators in the Energy Sector, Acer. Our most important job in promoting gas is shared. Firstly, we need to ensure that we produce enough gas and maintain the level of gas production we have today. We have now produced approx. one third of the expected resources we have on the Norwegian base. Two thirds remain to be produced and exported. Secondly, we rely on a well-functioning gas market in Europe, that is, on good distribution networks that help the gas to reach the consumer, and we have a dialogue with the EU on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1208	Norwegian gas has been important for the conversion of the energy mix in the United Kingdom. A large part of our share goes there. The British are now leaving the EU. Prime Minister Theresa May has expressed their desire to link the EU energy market in the future, but at the same time wants full national power to determine the rules in the field of energy. Will the UK be able to be defined as a third country in the future and will Norway be required to export to the EU instead of to the United Kingdom in a given situation, or can the Council of State guarantee that it will not be able to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1215	There is nothing in the third energy market package or Acer and the regulations I have referred to here, relating to upstream gas networks, that requires us to be required to sell to the EU rather than to other customers. The streets go where the market wants, through the price mechanisms. I would like to underline what the representative says about the UK's approach to pricing CO 2 has contributed to the dramatic cut in CO 2 emissions from their electricity production. Only in the last two years have they reduced coal-fired electricity production by 60 pst, which has reduced CO 2 emissions by 24 pst. in the United Kingdom. It is equivalent to 25 million tonnes of CO 2, which corresponds to approximately. half of the total emissions from the entire Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1237	First, I would like to begin by congratulating the Kurdish people and others on the Newroz celebration that is today. Then I would like to point out that the question was sent before Afrin was taken by, among other things. recent Turkish forces. Therefore, parts of the question formulation are out of date. I continue to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Turkish aggression against Afrin is extremely serious and cannot be tacitly accepted by Norway and NATO. More than 290 civilians have been killed since this aggression started. Now the city is about to be surrounded, and there is a danger of even more dead and new attacks. What is the Foreign Minister's reaction to Turkey's attack on Afrin, does she believe the attacks violate international law, and will she take initiatives in NATO to put an end to it?"
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1246	The representative of the Supreme Court and I fully agree on the seriousness of the situation in Afrin, and it is quite right, as the representative also says, that after the question was sent in, there has been a development – not to the positive – that now means that the city has been occupied by Turkish forces since March 18 together with the military opposition group Free Syrian Army. The situation is inconclusive in the area. I'm really worried about the situation we're seeing. I also made that very clear in my foreign policy statement at the end of February. The humanitarian situation is now alarming. It can quickly get even worse. It is important that the parties ensure that civilians leave the area safely and that there is access to humanitarian assistance. The humanitarian situation in much of northwestern Syria has been very serious for a long time. This comes as an addition to it. According to the UN, approx. 350,000 people since mid-December escaped from the area. Some of these are attributed to an increasing internationalisation of the conflict and an increased international struggle for positions in Syria and the region. This is tragic for the Syrian people, and it contributes to further instability in the region. Of course, we call for restraint, not least that which is absolutely fundamental: a proportionality in what can also be legitimate security interests at the outset, and to refrain from actions that compromise political solutions. We have also expressed that to the Turkish authorities. We have expressed this through my foreign policy statement, in public communication, and I expressed the same view at a meeting of the European Parliament with their Foreign Affairs Committee last night. We see that it is a very serious and unbridled situation that has so far largely escalated, and become worse. Therefore, we believe it is important to continue to give clear information both to the Turkish authorities and internationally that we believe that this is a situation where restraint must be demonstrated, respect for international humanitarian law must be demonstrated, and that the fundamental principles of proportionality and proportionality must be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1257	Now Afrin has been invaded, and it is estimated that about 100,000 people are left of them. The 320,000 people who lived there before Turkey's aggression. Thousands are on the run, and the situation is far from clear yet. Turkey's President Erdogan said on Monday that the military offensive will now be extended to other Kurdish-controlled areas against the Iraq border. So the question is not least what is going to happen in Afrin further. Turkish soldiers and Turkish - supported warriors are now pouring into Afrin. Robbery is reported, and the International Red Cross Committee writes: ‘Tits of people suffer in Afrin. Desperate and alive, thousands of refugees every day without having any place to be, little food, water and health care». What is the Foreign Minister's comment that Turkey has now announced to extend the military offensive further into Syrian territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1267	It's of course difficult, given that the situation is so incomprehensible, knowing what Turkey's next step will be. We have recorded the statements that Turkey has made, and our feedback is exactly the same as it has been to now, namely a clear message to show restraint, the principles of proportionality, respect international law and, not least, secure access to humanitarian aid. What has been one of the major challenges both in East Ghouta, in Idlib in general and in Afrin has been that humanitarian aid has been difficult to obtain. It's been hard getting people out. The truce that would apply especially to East Ghouta has not been respected. It has made very many people stuck to what was supposed to be humanitarian corridors, and the situation has, if possible, become even worse for many. That's right, as the representative says, there's a precarious shortage of clean drinking water, medicine and food. Of course, it's also an incredibly precarious situation to be able to provide protection to people in flight. Therefore, internal flow in the area is also increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1272	Thanks for the answer. I'll end with one last question. The government and Foreign Minister Eriksen Soreide have several times called NATO a community of values. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that what Turkey is now doing in Syria against the Kurds is in line with the values Norway holds high in foreign policy – international law, peace and human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1279	I think it is important to stress that NATO is a community of values and for Norway an important community of values. It has always been, even though we may have disagreed with actions from individual countries. That is precisely why we are very clear in our public communication and in communication with Turkish authorities on what we think must be the basic principles and the way in which we act in situations like this. It's not unique to what we do with Turkish authorities. We also do that in other similar situations, where we see that those who always suffer the most are the civilian population. The situation for those in Syria is generally extremely difficult. It has to do with the fact that their own leader has so clearly attacked his own people. The war in Syria is now going into its eighth year. We have a very difficult situation politically. Getting political solutions, which must be the solution in Syria, is becoming increasingly difficult. At the top of the conflict, the conflict is internationalised. Several actors come in and use Syria as a kind of substitute war for the fight for positions regionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1288	Let me first welcome the new Minister of Justice. So to the question: ‘In the state budget and in the government statement, it has been decided that the government should involve and cooperate with the local environment and neighbours when they complete the Taraldrud Emergency Response Centre. The neighbors have organized themselves in the organisation Stop the noise. When and how will the Council follow up the decisions to involve them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1297	Let me first remind you that a similar question was also asked early in February, from the representative Abid Q. Raja, and it was then answered on 7 February by the former Councillor Sylvi Listhaug. The follow-up to the Storting Decision will mainly take place through work on the environmental follow-up plan, with an associated noise plan. There are many areas here. There are a number of points on noise and noise management, broken down by design phase, installation phase and operational phase. Regular dialogue meetings will be held between the Ministry, the project, the police and the three municipalities defined to be involved. Constituent meetings were held on 13 March. The agenda included: precisely what is involved in the environmental follow-up plan. The Ministry assumes that it is the municipality of Oslo, by the district of Søndre Nordstrand, and the municipality of Oppegård, which represents the inhabitants and neighbours, while the municipality of Ski, which is the host municipality, has some central authority tasks associated with this. In the framework conditions of the Ski municipality it is among other things. provided that there shall be an independent control of the noise measures designed. Of course, the ministry follows this up and actually goes a little further than what is required, by taking this aside from the already independent control of the design solutions. In addition to what is done directly in connection with the Centre, the Ministry has committed itself to compensatory measures, in particular targeting the use of land by children and young people, etc., during the day. Specific measures are also targeted directly at the speeding and local kindergarten in the area. That's a total of 8 million. kr for these specific measures, and the Ministry is now awaiting the assessment by the municipalities of the way in which these funds are to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1312	I think maybe the council didn't hear my question, because now we heard a lot about compensatory measures. It is well and good when we are going to have shooting and shock grenades right at the kindergartens and schools in my municipality, but that was not the question. The question was, how should decisions be followed up? The decisions say to cooperate with both the local environment and neighbours. I have realized at the council that the «local environment» is counting as the municipalities, but the neighbours are organized in Stop the noise! They've been doing it all along. That's where we who live in the area – as I do myself – are organized. They sent letters to the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Listhaug, and now I know that a new letter will be sent to Minister of Justice Sandberg, where they invite to a joint meeting for talks on the road further. They are ready to follow the decisions taken by Stortinget to involve them. Then I wonder what the Minister of Justice has intended to answer that invitation from us who live in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1321	Then I'll wait in suspense until I get the letter, and then I'll answer it, of course. I'm very familiar with the fact that the group has wanted a meeting with the Council of State. I guess there's also a video on the Internet where exactly the representative Wilkinson says he's going to do his job to get such a meeting. It is a task that is important for a big-time representative — to take their neighbours and their local environment seriously. However, if such a meeting were to take place, and if such a meeting were to take place, I would find it much more natural that the most important thing, even for the neighbours, now is to meet the rapporteurs in Ski and Oopegård, as well as the City Council for Urban Development in the Municipality of Oslo, because that is where the implementing power will lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1326	I can hardly believe what I hear now: if it is to be a meeting, it is natural to meet the rapporteur. So now it is not even certain that the rapporteurs will meet on this matter. This has been decided – and I repeat: the government should involve and cooperate with the local environment and neighbours. The majority of the population have adopted it, and it's in the Yeloya Declaration. We have a very simple requirement on the SV side. It is that this government is following up the decisions this big business has taken. I understand that the council has intended to answer the letter, but that was not my question. The question was what to do with the Council of State. We who live in the area have been organized in Stop the Noise! all the way. It's the people who talk on behalf of us who live in the area, they've been promised meetings – by the Left in particular, who are now part of the government, and who had it as a battle cause. They dismissed the SV's proposal by saying that we had an impact on them so that they would now be involved. It is a clear promise that the Storing has made. Will Minister of Justice Sandberg follow up the decisions of this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1333	I think I have repeatedly now replied that the Storting has made some decisions and put some leads. This is followed up by the government. The left is in the government, and I am now sitting as a Minister of Justice and replying that I must at least receive the letter before I can assess the content of it at all. I can't stand here and respond to meeting invitations. It must be treated normally. I'm dealing with the three municipalities. The Ministry and the municipalities agree that it is the municipalities that represent their inhabitants. When implementing the measures, the appropriations shall include: to specific actions, given to these municipalities, I think it is natural to have meetings with the rapporteurs in these municipalities to present their wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1343	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘The Grand total decided at its meeting on 30 November 2017 that pensioners who so wish shall be entitled to receive payment information by post on an ongoing basis from 1 July 2018. When and in what way will Nav inform the pensioners about this right, so that those who want it can get back the ‘sleep’ from July 2018?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1352	It is true that the Stortinget decided on 30 November 2017 that pensioners who want to do so will be sent to us as of 1 July 2018. However, in a letter to Stortinget on 19 February with answers to written questions from the representative Lundtegegen, I replied that the 2018 budget agreement did not contain any financial compensation for the additional costs it would incur for the labour and welfare seat that the pensioners who so wish could receive the payment notice in the post. This is, as the representative Ness probably also knows, one of several decisions with budgetary implications for which no money has been allocated. The government will therefore come back to the follow-up to this Decision in the context of the revision of the national budget now in progress. The State of employment and welfare will then properly inform pensioners about how those who wish to do so can get the payment message back in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1359	I think it is important that the Council of State is not too busy by the millions, but sees human beings in this matter. There's an age difference in the population when it's related to the use of digital services. There is a distinction between children and young people growing up today and their grandparents and grandparents. 44 pst. in the age group between 75 and 79 in 2017, they have not used the Internet, and 400,000 people feel out of the way in the rapid development of technology. I think we all have a common responsibility to treat people with respect and dignity in their old age and make sure that they keep their interests in order. I'm expecting the Council of State to make sure that we get this in our own way, so that the majority in this room can set the necessary promises, and that this system will be in place from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1366	I agree that it is important to see people and not just millions. At the same time, the government is also obliged to comply with the budgetary decisions actually taken by the Storting. This is one of several decisions that the Stortinget has made, with which it does not follow the money. Then it is my job in the budgetary work to make sure that any money is provided for it or that the Storting itself finds funds for the decisions that have been taken. Fortunately, more and more people are becoming digital. I think if I don't remember wrong, that 75 pst. of those applying for a pension, actually do it digitally. This means that the older generation is also becoming more and more logged in – if you can use that word – and that’s good. At the same time, we have also told Nav in this context that it is important that they are flexible, that they assist the pensioners who need help, to get help, so that the pensioners get the information they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1373	We are not talking about the large sums of money here in relation to the overall budget that the Minister has. I have seen government councils implementing reforms in other areas, providing space for both distributions, expert selections, consultant reports, meetings, courses, conferences, etc. It has, like, never been on money within the large budget of the municipal minister, even though it has not had our ear-marked permissions on this from the Stortinge side. My expectation is that the Council of State will find in a wise and good way, within the limits of its budget, the necessary money for this to meet the expectations created out there, so this will be in place from 1 July 2018. With good will and good cooperation with the Stortinget I expect that we get this in place in a good way for people out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1378	This decision costs 30 million. kr. You can always ask for $30 million. kr is much or little. What has been important from the government has, among other things, have been given priority to youth action, the obligation to work for young people under 30 years of age, long-term unemployed measures and other measures to contribute to the increase in unemployment that we saw. Now we also see that the results are good because the unemployment rate goes down and more people come to work. Yes, it is my responsibility to follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget, but I have to remind you again that this decision did not follow the money, and it is in the budgetary procedure that the Stortinget takes budgetary decisions. And therefore, as I said in my main reply, we will come back to the revised national budget on how to follow up this decision. If money is allocated to this, the pensioners will also be informed about it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1388	This question, from the representative of Willfred Nordlund to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1393	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘In the long-term plan for the defence sector, the government recommended a collection of maritime patrol aircraft on Evenes. The magazine Vesterålen wrote on Wednesday 14 March that ‘The expansion of Evenes Air Station may have encountered major challenges. The work on the spatial plan shall show that there is no room for all five surveillance seaplanes Norway is going to acquire.’ The newspaper also wrote that it is now considered to station two of the aeroplanes on Rygge. Can the Council of State confirm that all five maritime patrol aeroplanes shall be stationed on Evenes?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1402	On behalf of the Minister of Defence, I will answer the question. Following the Storting's decision to collect QRA and maritime patrol aircraft at the Evenes Air Station, the Ministry of Defence, which announced, has developed the plans further through a preliminary study. This has taken the form of a concept selection investigation, KVU Evenes. The KVU documents and recommends a concept for the location of both operational surfaces, construction and installations at the aerodrome. The Ministry of Defence has received support and input from the Defence, Defence and Avinor — this is also a civil airport — and has come up with a satisfactory and sober concept for the development of Evenes that meets the needs of its actors. The allegations of lack of space, to which the representative refers from the newspapers, do not lead to correctness. All five new maritime patrol planes shall be placed on the Evenes. The defence sector has over time built up a sound competence on this type of project. That competence is used in the construction of Evenes. Satisfactory solutions have been found to the alleged challenges of the deployment of maritime patrol aeroplanes at the Evene Air Station. The Ministry of Defence has completed KVU Evenes these days. It is now being quality-secured externally. The government has previously communicated that Stortinget will be briefed on the result of KVU Evenes in a suitable way in spring 2018. At the same time, Mr Stortinget is dealing with two representative proposals on Evenes. The Minister of Defence will submit to Stortinget after Easter an unupgraded version of KVU Evenes and the external quality assurance report. It will provide the Foreign and Defence Committee with a good basis before giving its opinion on the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1415	I thank you for your answer. I must inform you that I am not particularly reassured when the Foreign Minister here says that what is described as a sober solution has been reached. There has been a part of the discussion, namely whether a so-called sober solution will provide a good basis for operating maritime surveillance on patrol aircraft, regardless of location, and there are differences in the benefits of the different solutions, including among others. both air protection and the re-use of the bases already in place. When you say that you have come up with a sober solution, and the minister then points out that you have gained good competence in building up the defence, the question is: is the government sure that you can stay within what has been presented to Stortinget as a cost framework for building up, and that you will then get a good defence-related solution to the location of MPA?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1424	As Stortinget has also been briefed on earlier in several rounds, there is nothing in the data that indicates that you should not stay within the cost framework. When I say the exact solution, that's the principle we're always working on. We need to find good solutions within the economic framework and what is operationally necessary to operate the base in a good way, to have good aircraft operating surfaces and to conduct operations. As the representative knows, the background to the choice of Evenes as the base for the maritime patrol aircraft was a clear professional-military recommendation on the need to assemble the base structure, so that we can provide good protection for both the QRA – i.e. the F-35 – that will be on Evenes, and also the maritime patrol aircraft. The Minister of Defence has attached in the papers he gave me, that there is nothing to suggest that there should be a different cost framework than that underlying the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1431	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is well aware of the problem she is also facing, as a former Minister of Defence. When you say here that you're assuming that you're going to get a good protection solution for the location of the MPA planes and the QRAs on Evenes, that's all right. But the question is: how do you follow up what has emerged in different media, namely that the defence in the update of allied reception capacity and base structure, as well as in a previous response, should accept allied capacity on other bases in situations other than necessarily a peace situation – how do you think security should be ensured in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1436	I'm not going too far into the details. What I think the Minister of Defence should do, based on the KVU that is now available and quality assured. Of course, all the different objections that have arisen at different stages of the process, whether they concern aircraft operating surfaces, weather conditions, or environmental issues, are, of course, dealt with through the KVU. And it's a completely normal process that's also happened this time. The defense and the Ministry of Defence have had a project organisation that has worked on this for a long time. Regardless of which base to choose in Norway, you will probably find that there will be some challenges that you will have to look for solved or compensated in different ways. Of course, this also applies to Evens. Some of what has been pointed out as challenges is precisely that civil and military traffic must be carried out simultaneously and thus must find good practical solutions inside the aircraft area in order to be able to handle both parts, while providing good protection and air operations surfaces. It's in this KVU that you can find within the framework that's been laid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1444	I read the following questions: ‘Does the concession treatment of the private foreign table NorthConnect as planned and will it be dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1451	In order to own and operate international electricity connections, both construction concession and non-resident government are required under the Energy Act. The NorthConnect concession applications are now being processed under this legislation. For the time being, the applications have been put out for consultation, with a deadline of 15 April. Consultation meetings have also been held in Bergen and Eidfjord on 5 March. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has asked Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, to give its assessment of the case before the ministry finalises the concessions and takes decisions. Societal economic profitability is a crucial issue in an application for a concession for international connections for electricity, and the concession treatment shall also address an overall assessment of price and environmental impact. In addition, of course, the impact on the operation of the power system, potential revenues and costs of the project and other effects on others shall be assessed. I am concerned that we as authorities are acting neatly towards the actors involved in the concession treatment. It also applies to the owners of NorthConnect, who have complied with the applicable rules for foreign houses. It is a short and well-defined issue of predictability for business operators. Tomorrow, the Stortinget will deal with the legislative proposals relating to the EU's third energy market package, and I have noticed that the majority of the committee members in the vote propose that the Stortinget should call on the government to take action as soon as possible before the Stortinget that the concession for owning and operating foreign connections can only be given to the system administrator, i.e. Statennet, or undertakings in which Statennet has a dominant influence. I have also noticed that a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Greens' Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left in the Committee, assumes that the Department will complete the application from NorthConnect before a legislative amendment is promoted. I look forward to these questions being discussed further tomorrow, and will follow up the Storting's decision in an ordinary way. To be precise, with this in mind, the application from NorthConnect will be dealt with in an ordinary manner, in line with the existing legislation in the area and the leadership of the Stortinget. That is, moreover, the same answer that Prime Minister Erna Solberg gave to the representative in the oral question procedure earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1468	Thanks for the answer – a concrete answer, and that is always an advantage. As I understand the Council of States, this concession treatment will now be dealt with under the same legislation as it was six months ago. So there are no changes in the legislation now compared to what was half a year – or three months ago – before the discussion of Acer on the Stortinget began.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1475	That's right. There are no regulatory changes relating to the possibility for actors to apply for the development and operation of foreign tables. The Committee has set up the Stortinget for the third energy market package to be discussed tomorrow is that the government will come back with a legislative amendment which means that it will only be the system operator for the future, i.e. State network, which may own and operate foreign tables.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1480	I have also read the position the same way as the Council of State – that in the case of NorthConnect, it will go according to the legislation that has been, but that one will come back with a bill for other cables afterwards, and that the treatment that we will have tomorrow will have nothing to say for NorthConnect, but for others, future cables. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1485	Now we are waiting for the Stortinget to deal with the third energy market package tomorrow, but that is how the Council of State has read the position of the Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1493	I have the following questions for the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘Norwegian Farmers’ Teams, Norway’s Bondelag and Norsk Sau and Geit were rejected by the Environment Directorate on an application to continue a joint project focusing on prevention and conflict mitigation measures in predatory areas. The project is within its third period and is a driver for dialogue and conflict mitigation between grazing industry, management and other actors in predatory game issues. Conflict prevention is important in the predatory debate. Will the State Council ensure that the project is revalidated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1502	We have a two-part objective in the predatory game policy to take care of both predators and grazing animals in Norway. It is not always as easy to reconcile these two interests, which makes conflicts difficult to avoid. That is why I fully agree with Mr Haltbrecken that work on preventive and anti-conflict measures is a very important part of the policy pursued. I am aware that the concrete joint project between Norsk Bonde- und Småbrugerlag, Norway's Bondelag and Norsk Sau and Geit on further financing for the period 2018-2020 has been rejected by the Environment Directorate. The Directorate has rejected, inter alia: the importance of the role of the county councillors in disseminating knowledge and advice as well as having a direct dialogue with grazing users related to concrete prevention measures. Feedback from the county councillors as well as the directorate's assessments suggest that this will be solved in a good way today. As regards the anti-conflict part of the project, such as meetings and seminars to improve cooperation between different actors, the Directorate considers these to be important tasks. However, the Directorate considers these tasks to be naturally solved through regular organisational work and that there is no need for a separate project to be pursued. The Directorate for the Environment has since fallen to grant grants for the 2018 project for the completion of ongoing activities in the project. The rejection of further funding has been charged by the three organisations, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment is responsible for deciding on the appeal. I would like to take a good look at the matter as soon as it is sent to the Environment Directorate. I can therefore not comment on the matter further at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1515	Then I have no further questions, but only wish the Council of State luck in dealing with the complaint and hope he comes up with a reasonable solution that contributes to further anti-conflict measures in the predatory debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1520	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1528	This question, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be raised by the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1533	‘Norges Bondelag has requested compensation for grazing users following a wolf attack in Rendalen in 2016 on the same basis as for predator attacks on Hadeland in 2017. The wallpaper in Rendalen was 591 sheep and 1 cattle. 55 persons spent more than 4000 hours on exceptional supervision and carcass testing, in addition to additional driving. The Ministry of Climate and Environment rejected the claim and considered that the situation ‘was not as exceptional as in Hadeland’. What does the Council of State think makes the situation in Hadeland exceptional, while the situation in Rendalen was not?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1540	The damage caused by wolves to domestic animals in Rendalen in the summer of 2016 and to Hadeland, Toten and Hurdal in the summer of 2017 had a major impact on many animals and affected many grazing users. The legislation in force entitles users of grazing land to full compensation for all domestic animals likely to be killed or injured by predatory game. In addition, a number of other expenditures are compensated by grants for preventive measures against predatory wildlife damage. These are good financial arrangements. In 2016, grazing users in Rendalen were compensated for all grazing animals that were required to be replaced in excess of normal loss, as well as full coverage for increased work and other costs of follow-up under the compensation scheme. Based on experience from previous years, in region 5 of Hedmark, predatory game subjects had also earmarked money for emergency prevention. This money and the relatively few users involved enabled the State of Hedmark to deal with the situation within the grant regulation and the existing financial framework. It was therefore compensated for the additional supervisory activity to a reasonable extent, even if not all costs of extraordinary supervision were covered. I believe that the situation in the summer of 2017 differs from previous damage situations and is most likely to differ from future damage situations. As I have previously replied in a letter to the Norwegian Bond Team and in response to written questions from the representative, Enger Mehl, the situation is considered exceptional because of the number of animals and grazing users affected, the long period of time and the total losses. The grazing user was also promised full compensation by the authorities and arranged after that. I notice that the representative is not satisfied with this answer and will further describe in the following the differences between the two damage situations. The situation on Hadeland, Toten and Hurdal in the summer of 2017 affected a total of 204 grazing users – 152 in Oppland and 52 in Akershus. Only in Uppland did this affect 27,660 sheep, of which 12,830 sheep had to be kept at home all season long. By comparison, 18 grazing users were affected by the situation in Rendalen. On Hadeland and Toten there was wolf in the pastures from May. This created a special situation in which many grazing users could not release animals at all. Although overall the damage in Rendalen also stretched over a long period of time, the damage occurred later in the season and therefore did not have such consequences. The pasturage users of Hadeland, Toten and Hurdal paid a total of 16.5 million. kr. Extraordinary supervision and exceptional supervision operations consisted of 16,814 hours only in Uppland. Although the users of Rendalen also spent a lot of time on extraordinary supervision, here we are talking about numbers of a completely different order of magnitude. As a result, there are clear differences between the two situations. It is a central point that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture early went out and promised grazing users in Hadeland, Toten and Hurdal full compensation for all expenses. Once grazing users had made arrangements for it, flexibility must be made in view of the pre-clearance of measures with County State, the appropriateness of the measure, and the like. Some such promises were not given in the Rendalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1561	The loss rate in Rendalen was higher than in Hadeland. The farmers who were hit were hit even harder. When it is claimed that the damage was greater and longer in Hadeland, it is provoked by those who were struck, and by all those who will listen to the experiences and the wisdom of those who were struck. I notice that the Council of State indicated that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture and Food chose to leave early. But can the Council of State give a concrete reason why the situation in Hadeland was so diametrically different from that in Rendalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1568	That's the scope, and I think I've explained, how many people were affected – now I just have to find the numbers here. There were 204 grazing users in Oppland, compared with 18 grazing users in Rendalen. And that's what I also pointed out, which is a central difference and a central point, that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture and Food went out early and promised the grazing users of Hadeland, Toten and Hurdal full compensation for all expenses. Some such promises were not in the Rendalen. We have established a system to protect sheep owners if similar situations arise again, but it requires prior action and that these be clarified with the County. I believe that it is not appropriate to establish a permanent scheme in which the State is to finance all measures considered necessary by sheep owners, without their prior assessment and approval by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1575	In Rendalen, 55 people spent more than 4,000 hours looking for a carcass. Of course, those who have not suffered direct loss of animals are left with the cost of the work that was done, which has given rise to strong reactions in the industry. Now that there is more wolf than in a long, long time, there will of course also be more wolf in the priority pastures. Will the Council of State put in place a new regulation to ensure decent compensation for farmers in the areas? And if not, what kind of alternatives does the Council of State see to a new regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1580	First, it is important to stress that grazing users in Rendalen have received full compensation for all grazing animals that were required to be replaced in excess of normal loss, as well as full coverage for increased work and other costs of follow-up under the compensation scheme. All situations are different, but we have now fixed national rates for compensation for the early immersion of sheep and for the whole grazing season. As regards supplementary supervision and exceptional supervision, there will continue to be measures requiring prior agreement with the State. So we have a good code, and I think it still has to be that you have to have an agreement with the County, and that it's not just a distribution that's general, without having such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1587	So the ordinary questioning procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-21.ana.ud262e1601	There is no record. Thus, the map is currently ready for processing. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? – Then has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
