ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e69	The representatives Eigil Knutsen and Mona Fagerås, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Sheida S Angtarash For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anders R iise For the Nordic region: Kjell-Idar Juvik For Oslo: Mats Church Birchland and Kristoffer Haug For the Province of Rogaland: Julia Wong For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Trude Brosvik For the Westfold province: Kari-Lise Rørvik A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Cecilie Myrseth and Gisle Meininger Saudland on leave from 30 January to 2 February, both to participate in the study of representatives in Brussels. from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal for the period from 30 January to 12 February. from the representative of Guri Melby on parental leave from 30 January to 13 May. by Mr Björn Moxnes, on Tuesday 30 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder Province: Und Nilsen Husøy 30 January–2. February For More and Romesdal counties: Tove Lise Torve 30 January-8. February For Oslo: Tina Shagufta Kornmo 30 January–9. May and Seher Aydar 30 January For the counties of Troms: Kari-Anne Opsahl 30 January-1. February
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e193	Und Nilsen Husøy, Tove Lise Torve, Tina Shagufta Kornmo, Seher Aydar and Kari-Anne Opsahl are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e204	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e209	On behalf of the representatives of Trude Brosvik, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Torhild Bransdal and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal on state compensation in the event of flooding and natural damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e214	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e219	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Steinar Ness, Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to combat teaching shortages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e224	The representative, Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e230	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tore Hagebakken, Tellef Inge Mørland, Siv Henriette Jacobsen and myself, I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative to develop a national strategy for good nutrition for elderly people receiving care services in hospitals and home care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e235	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e240	On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Siv Mossleth and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the preparation and implementation of an action plan against racism and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e245	The representative, Jan Bøhler, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e250	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Masud Gharahkhani, Lene Vågslid, Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen, Maria-Karine Aasen-Svensrud and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on action against social control and honorary violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e255	The representative of Ivar Odnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e260	On behalf of the representatives of Heidi Greni, Siv Mossleth, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I will be allowed to submit a proposal for a representative on a State maintenance programme for the county road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e265	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e270	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Petter Eide and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on measures against negative social control and honour-related violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e275	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e280	On behalf of the representatives Emilie Enger Mehl, Steinar Ness, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a reform of democracy and leadership in public hospitals with the introduction of trust-based, urban leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e286	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e291	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Geir Pollestad, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a big-time report on the Norwegian food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e296	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 26 January 2018: ‘Changes among State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 26 January 2018 at 1100 a.m. under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Constituent State Secretary Torkil Åmland is appointed State Secretary to the State Council of Sylvi Listhaug in the Ministry of Justice and Defence.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e327	On 11 September 2017, the parties Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party reached a majority in Stortinget. On that basis, the government continued its post-election work. Following investigations with the Right and Advance Party towards the turn of the year, the Left decided to open negotiations to participate in a tripartite government. The negotiations led to the Jeløya platform. Governing bodies of the three parties joined the political platform on 14 January and the Left became part of the government on 17 January. The government will base its further work on the Jeleia platform. A free society does not come about by itself. We depend on working communities and common values and institutions such as legal certainty, privacy, freedom of expression, trust, free media, market economy, ownership and volunteering. The government will stand up for these values and institutions that bear our society. Cultural life and civil society are important prerequisites for an informed public awareness. They are investments in democracy and generalisation. Culture shall be free of personal involvement and voluntary activity as a basis. The government's starting point is the belief that people who are given trust will also take responsibility. Free, independent people trigger effort and creativity. A good society and community is created from below — in families, in the workplaces and in voluntary organisations. The government will spread power and authority. Norway is a long-term and diverse country. The challenges are different, the aspirations and objectives of the population are different, and the assumptions for housing and value creation vary. The potential for development shall be ensured in all parts of the country, districts and cities. Increased influence for individuals, families and communities will contribute to solutions that are better adapted to the individual. The government will also facilitate the development of its language, culture and social life for Sami and national minorities in Norway. The government will work for a fair society with opportunities for everyone — a knowledge school, equal access to basic welfare services and a social security network that captures those outside. It creates security in everyday life and offers more opportunities for success regardless of background and origin. The aim is to create a sustainable welfare society. The government has identified six challenges that need to be solved if we are to succeed in achieving the goal. We have to convert the Norwegian economy because we need growth, new jobs and more legs to stand on. We have to meet Norway's climate obligations because we have to take our share of the responsibility to meet the climate challenges. We must create an inclusive working life. Technological development creates great opportunities for job repatriation, empowerment and efficiency, but also challenges existing jobs and individual competences. We must ensure good welfare arrangements. It is a pleasure that more people live longer. At the same time, the sustainability of welfare schemes depends on more people being active longer. We need to reduce poverty. Too many are affected by poverty and exclusion, without the opportunity to create their own, good life. We must implement an integration promise. International migration is unpredictable, and we need a high level of preparedness for rapid shifts. It is absolutely crucial both for the individual and for the sustainability of our welfare systems that we succeed better in integrating into the labour market. Several of these challenges have been addressed for a long time. Important initiatives have been taken both in the previous period and under previous governments. They must be continued. But it has to do more. A commitment to knowledge and competence will be essential for success. In some areas, efforts need to be stepped up. In other areas, efforts need to be diverted in order to deliver the desired results. The government will work to address these challenges in a better way. The government will work to get more people to work. Work is important both to feel a belonging to the community and a fundamental prerequisite for our welfare society. The largest part of our national wealth is the value of the work we do. In the decades to come, the relationship between the number of working-age nordics and the number of working-age northerns is distorted. This trend is reflected already today in reduced employment rates and increased expenditure on pensions. Therefore, more jobs have to be created, and more have to be qualified for the jobs. Then we have to start early. High-quality kindergartens strengthen the competence of both children and adults. Early school action must be given priority. The goal is that no students should leave primary school without having learned to read, write and calculate properly. Recently, we have seen a happy development in which more people complete further education. These developments need to be supported, so that even more are completed. Important contributions will be reinforced in the professional and apprenticeship fields. A good school is crucial for all children to be able to pursue their dreams, regardless of gender and social background. The teacher is the most important person for the students' learning. Therefore, the Teacher Lift must continue. Continued commitment to continuing training, new teacher training, career paths and other measures will help raise the status of the teaching profession. The aim is for all pupils to be taught by competent teachers. Society needs to invest even more in knowledge, research and development. In particular, in a transition phase for the Norwegian economy, we should focus on research that can solve key societal challenges while creating new jobs in Norway. Norwegian employment is changing. Automation, digitisation and robotization are concepts that describe a trend in which employees’ work tasks change significantly. It can result in increased value creation, less dangerous and monotonous work, less pollution and home flagging of Norwegian jobs. However, for some, development can mean that the skills you have are no longer sought in the labour market. The government's objectives are clear: no one in the Norwegian labour market is going to be out of date. The government will therefore develop a new competence policy that responds to today’s challenges. The workline must be strengthened. It must pay to work rather than to go to social security. Many suggest that requirements for activity for young beneficiaries of social assistance have been successful. The government will work to increase the use of activity requirements as a tool for getting more people to work and for getting more people to learn Norwegian. There are a lot of people in our society who are looking for work, but they don't get it. If you stay out of work for a period of time, it is more difficult to find a new job – despite the fact that many employers who have tried to hire someone with holes in the CV have found valuable labour. We have to give more people a chance in our society. A number of private employers are good at this. Government enterprises can become much better. The government will therefore take the initiative in introducing inclusion opportunities for more people into the labour market. Labour crime is a threat to our well-being and social order. The joint efforts of the authorities and social partners against socially harmful and illegal activities in the labour market must continue. New instruments must be put into effect and criminal actors must be aggressively combated. In these days, all state enterprises are told to do more to ensure that they do not acquire goods and services from unprofessional operators. At the same time, the government will make everyday life easier for the serious actors in the world of work. Permanent employment shall be the general rule of Norwegian employment, and the government will pursue a policy based on it. The government will work for a functioning tripartite cooperation. A high level of organisation of work is a protection against unprofessional operators and a competitive advantage for Norway. A lower level of taxes and taxes and less red tape will support jobs and jobs across the country. The government will continue to work to make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs and to reduce business costs by reporting to and interacting with the public. A high tax on people's homes, which falls regardless of their ability to pay, is unsocial. The government will therefore reduce both the property tax rate and the tax base. The government will facilitate green conversion. Norway has undertaken large commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have to follow up on those commitments. It will require significant adjustments. In particular, the transport sector, but also other sectors, must provide the necessary emission reductions. Our new working life must be green, smart and innovative. The world’s efforts to achieve climate targets are also a major opportunity for Norway and Norwegian enterprises. In many areas we are well advanced with green technology. Using the market and focusing on innovation, research and development, the government will help several Norwegian companies win the competition to deliver zero-emission solutions. It is also important for Norway to have more weight in economic terms and to reduce our climate risk. The government will build the whole country. In the autumn the Stortinge adopted a new national transport plan. It's an ambitious plan, which the government will work to follow up. The plan will provide a better infrastructure across the country. It will link people, reduce accidents and deaths, and strengthen growth and value creation. Railway and urban public transport activities will improve mobility, contribute to addressing climate challenges and create a simpler everyday life for most people and for business. Investment in the development of the road network and good cross-regional trajectories will contribute to efficient passenger transport and profitability for business and heavy goods transport. Good roads provide shorter travel time, less environmental impact and fewer accidents. More and more of the infrastructure in society is digital. The expansion of faster broadband is taking place at a high pace on a market basis. The government will contribute where it is not a market. The government will invest in a better core network and fibre abroad to strengthen social security and the ability to create new jobs across the country. The government will speed up the digitisation of Norway. In the public sector, more digitisation means simplification for employees and citizens. This is how we will release resources for better services and better quality of procedure. More digital cooperation between the public and private sectors can generate huge gains. Digital solutions require competence for both development and daily use. Schools and higher education must prepare students and students for a digital future. Promises and regulations need to be adapted to digital solutions. According to the Northern Norway Investment Survey, public and private investment in the region is planned for over 700 billion. kr towards 2025. In many places, marine industries, travel and other activities contribute to more jobs and new optimism. The government will increase investment in infrastructure, simplify business regulation and increase research and development efforts to support the positive development of districts. Norway should be the country of opportunity — a country where everyone has the opportunity to succeed, regardless of background. It should be your abilities and effort that determine what you can achieve, not what family you were born into, or where you grow up. The main policy instrument for achieving this is the commitment to a strong public knowledge school. An important objective is to ensure that children who grow up in low-income families also have the same good prospects as others. Ensuring good growth conditions for all children is essential if they are to become independent and safe adults, who can actively contribute to society and society, among others. through work. The government will strengthen its efforts to do so. The government will strengthen equality in society and actively contribute to the fight against sexual harassment, so that women and men have the same opportunities. As technological development is speeding up, increased emphasis on competences is becoming increasingly critical. Work is the most important way to influence your ability to support yourself and your family. The government will work to include more people in the labour market, including persons with disabilities, so that they also have the freedom to create their own future. The government will modernise the welfare. The changing composition of the Norwegian population will put the welfare systems under pressure in the coming decades. For the government will not only maintain but also enhance offers and quality. In particular, it is important to strengthen the safety net for those who are currently not caught well enough. This is particularly true in the area of drug addiction and mental health. Therefore, during this period, the government will implement a drug reform to ensure that drug addicts receive the help they need, and will present an escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. Much of the modernisation in the future must take place through new and better ways of working, enhancing skills and greater freedom of choice for users. Increased digitisation and efficiencies need to free up time for more care. The government will work for Norway to be an age-friendly society. People who have lived a long life must also have a life of purpose and dignity. The government will therefore carry out the older reform ‘Live all life’. The government will also continue the testing scheme with State-funded care for the elderly to gain more experience with the experiment. The government will create a simpler Norway. The creativity and creativity of society must be let go. It should not be governed and regulated more than is necessary. Deregulation and new technologies contribute to a simpler everyday life for business, citizens and public employees. The government will create a safer Norway. The threats to society’s security are constantly changing. Norway has experienced how severe and painful terror can be. Strengthening preparedness and security has been a priority in recent years. The action has produced results. Police are strengthened, better trained and better equipped. New helicopters and a new emergency centre will further strengthen preparedness. The government will follow up the near-police reform and continue to strengthen the capacity of the police. At the same time, the threats change. This must be met by ensuring particularly vulnerable areas, preventing radicalisation and taking ICT security seriously. We are becoming increasingly dependent on digital solutions. Strengthening ICT security and preparedness requires high attention in all sectors in the coming years. Norway’s security policy environment is changing. The situation in our neighbourhoods and in Europe's peripheral zone is more challenging than in the past. Increased unrest in the Middle East, international terrorism and a more self-reliant Russia have contributed to this. The government will therefore follow the long-term defence plan and the land-use proposition. Together, this will significantly strengthen Norway’s defence capabilities. The government will pursue a policy adapted to a more diverse Norway. Immigration is a source of new impulses and cultural exchanges. Variation contributes to innovation, innovation and creativity. While immigration has contributed to economic growth in Norway and made us a more diverse nation, the government sees challenges related to immigration and integration. Migration puts Norwegian society to the test, for whatever reason. Not least the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare country. It is therefore necessary to pursue a restrictive, legal and responsible immigration policy. Norway shall be a driver for finding good solutions for the world’s refugees, both through assistance in the neighbourhoods and by accepting quota refugees. People legally resident in Norway are well received. The government will transform the integration policy in order to increase the speed of work. The introduction programme needs to be more focused. Civil society needs to be mobilised to improve everyday integration. The government will pursue a policy that supports the UN's sustainability objectives. The world is slowly becoming more and more densely intertwined. Through economics and trade, technology and ICT, increased tourism, cultural impulses, migration, war and conflict, we continue to experience that events elsewhere in the world are having major impacts here at home. Norway must therefore pursue a foreign policy that respects Norway’s interests and contributes to increased international cooperation related to cross-border challenges. Environmental and climate challenges, war and terror, refugees, poverty and development are problems that cannot be solved by individual countries alone. Norway shall be a country that contributes and takes responsibility in the world. Norway shall support international cooperation, including: through NATO, the EEA and the United Nations. We must take seriously that our foreign policy environment has become more changeable in recent years. The government will give priority to safeguarding national interests, continuing to build up its defence, being a responsible and good ally and contributing to peace and stability where we have good conditions to contribute. The government wants Norway to be a driver of international agreements, international legal order, human rights and free trade, which include several countries in the global economy and economic growth. The government considers the UN’s sustainability targets to be central to addressing our time’s global challenges. We will therefore play an active role in the follow-up to targets internationally and in Norway. As part of this, we will follow up on a global education promise to ensure access to education for all. Norway is a commercial nation. An open economy and extensive international trade have been crucial to creating what we know today in Norway. Infinite times the north has traveled to, and acted with, other countries. Today, the EEA Agreement is the framework for trade with our closest neighbours in Europe. The Government will base Norway’s relationship with Europe on the EEA Agreement. The agreement ensures market access for Norwegian goods and services and is of great importance for jobs and well-being. Signs of increasing protectionism in other countries give cause for concern. The government will work internationally for free trade. Norway has a strong international position as a port. The Government will take new initiatives for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources globally, combating pollution and strengthening international cooperation. Among other things, the government has taken the initiative of an international high-level panel on sustainable marine economy. The panel will be led by the Prime Minister and will consist of Heads of Government in a number of coastal states from different corners of the world, including developing countries. The government's objective is a sustainable welfare society. We must succeed in this if we are to be able to deliver society to our children in the same good condition as we received it from our ancestors. The government will pursue a policy to increase the labour force in society as the need for welfare services increases. More jobs need to be created in the Norwegian economy, and more have to be qualified for these jobs. The government will take care of the qualities of Norwegian society that we're all concerned with. Small differences increase the sustainability of our society. A sustainable society must also respect nature's tolerance limits. The Government will support a transformation of the Norwegian economy that contributes to meeting Norway’s climate commitments. A restrictive, responsible and legally sound immigration policy will also help to strengthen sustainability in the long term. The work on integration needs to be reinforced in order to allow more immigrants to be included in the labour market, stand on their own feet and become contributors to the Norwegian welfare society. The government will present issues for the Storting in order to achieve these objectives. Reforms and modernisation of the public sector must continue in the coming years. It is necessary to achieve sustainability and to ensure that Norway remains one of the world’s best countries to live in. The challenges Norway faces are significant, but our starting point for solving them is the best. Norway has a highly educated population, a solid economy, large natural resources and small differences. The government takes the tasks very seriously and will meet the challenges with humility. I want to invite the Stortinget to constructive cooperation to create a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e417	The Government’s statement is proposed for consideration in a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. [[In an incurrence there was no case no. 2 taken up for treatment here. Case No. 2 is dealt with after case No. 3.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e433	It is necessary for healthcare that the public has confidence in our patient information management. When weaknesses are revealed, it is important to meet this with an open debate. I would therefore like to thank you for the opportunity to explain the ICT issue in Health South-East. I would also like to address the question of access to patient information and information security in the specialist healthcare services more generally, as a follow-up to questions for written answers from the representative Wilkinson. I also find it natural to go into the events of the last weeks related to the data attack on servers in Health South-East. In Norway, there is a broad consensus that the public should have access to high-quality public health services. The overall task of the government is to ensure a sustainable welfare society. We need to develop a sustainable healthcare service where the use of technology enables healthcare professionals to work effectively, provide healthcare in new ways, treat patients at home and make the patient an active partner. Then we have to apply the world's leading methods and technologies, and we also have to deal with the fact that much of the technology development is taking place in countries other than Norway. A modern healthcare service depends on private providers of ICT solutions and medical-technical equipment. This sets specific requirements for the work on information security and privacy, and this is a high priority. Information security is also about managing risks and taking action to ensure that patient information is adequately ensured. This requires continuous and systematic work. The regulatory framework in this area indicates to a limited extent specific requirements or the choice of the level of safety of the technical solutions. The level of safety necessary shall be assessed against the availability, integrity and confidentiality of the information. Accessibility means that the information shall be available when it is legitimately needed. Integrity is about ensuring that data is complete and correct. Confidentiality means that health information is to be ensured against becoming aware of it by unauthorised persons. Good data protection requires all three considerations mentioned above to be safeguarded in terms of availability, integrity and confidentiality. It does not only require high standards for the choice of technical solutions. It also imposes high standards of governance, management and organisation. In patient treatment, rapid access to the correct information may be critical. Lack of access to up-to-date and correct patient information can lead to mistreatment and damage to the patient. Correct and up-to-date information must be available to the right person in a timely manner. Data protection legislation shall ensure that this information is used correctly. The importance of confidentiality has been high in the healthcare sector. This must be seen in the context of the obligation of professional secrecy on health professionals. In the discussion on information security, prevention of unauthorised use and access to patient information may have received the highest attention. I'll come back later to the ICT modernisation in Health South-East. On the basis of the case, I commissioned the e-Health Directorate in June 2017 to develop a good and common understanding of what is going on in order to have a safe and proper use of both national and international suppliers. A large number of actors were involved in the work: key competences, patient organisations, professional organisations, trustees, user organisations and the ICT industry. Experience was also gained from other social actors, such as the Financial Supervisory Authority, Telenor and Statoil. The e-Health Directorate delivered the report to the Department on 30 November 2017. The report is not a verification or supervisory report but a normative basis for further development. This is in line with the role that the directorate is given. The report confirms that the health and care sector is entirely dependent on private suppliers, both national and international, in the field of ICT. Employees of these suppliers will be able to access patient information as necessary in their work. An overall risk assessment must always be carried out on all services containing patient information. This is particularly important in the use of external suppliers. The Directorate for eHealth believes that the health and care sector in general must have a relatively low risk acceptance. I will now focus on two main themes in the report. Firstly, are there services that should not be left to external suppliers? Secondly, what measures should be taken to ensure the security of information through the use of external suppliers? The eHealth Directorate does not consider that there is any basis for concluding that some types of services can never be entrusted to external suppliers. So there doesn't have to be a contrast between information security and service outsourcing. However, there must always be the necessary risk assessments and data processing agreements to ensure the security of information. The current law does not prohibit the use by Norwegian enterprises of EU/EEA national or foreign ICT suppliers. When using ICT suppliers outside the EU/EEA, there are specific requirements that need to be met. In this context, I would like to make some further comments. Service outsourcing of ICT tasks is common in all sectors and in all types of activities. In the past, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has carried out studies on the organisation of ICT operations in the public sector. These show a clear trend towards increased use of service outsourcing. External ICT providers can ensure access to up-to-date technologies, contribute to accessing healthcare to the necessary competences, and thereby contribute to improving the quality of services. The National Safety Authority Report 2017 comprehensive ICT risk assessment shows that the deployment of ICT services to professional actors can provide better security and more stable and accessible services, and lower and more predictable costs. It may also contribute to the focus on the core business of the enterprise. However, at the same time, release may lead to increased risk if it results in reduced control of the complex value chain. Therefore, it is important to have in-depth assessments on a case-by-case basis as to whether external or internal operations provide the best safety. Government acquisition law regulates the acquisition of goods and services. The procurement rules apply to operators from the EEA territory. In addition, the rules apply to activities granted rights under the WTO Agreement on Government Procurement or other international agreements by which Norway is obliged. A number of countries outside the EEA are covered by such agreements. It also means that it is not necessarily possible to cut operators from outside the EEA territory from participating in the competition. I would also like to remind you that much of the development of health technology is taking place outside Europe. Contracting entities shall impose information security requirements and introduce control mechanisms that reduce risk to an acceptable level. Requirements and controls must be designed in the light of a thorough risk assessment of concrete solutions. Thereafter, suppliers must be required to ensure that they will meet the safety requirements by describing measures in their offers and providing safety documentation. It is necessary for regional health establishments and health establishments to assess whether the requirements have been met. Non-compliant suppliers may not be awarded a contract. This assessment may take into account the conditions of the country of supply. However, there is very limited opportunity to reject offers on the grounds that the contractor is established in, or will provide, services from, another EEA country. It is possible, according to the procurement rules, if this is relevant to the security of the State and where it is necessary to safeguard essential security interests. There shall be a great deal to do to challenge the protection of patient information in the realm of safety, at least in the case of requirements for suppliers and control mechanisms based on risk assessments. I would then like to turn to the measures proposed in the report of the Directorate for eHealth. These are, on the one hand, measures and improvements to activities in the sector itself, and, on the other, measures that need to be followed up centrally. In the case of measures that need to be implemented in the sector, good management anchoring and governance are highlighted. Responsibilities and roles in information security must be clear, and good processes and procedures must be in place to involve outsiders in the work on ICT systems and medical-technical devices containing patient information. Whole risk assessment is another main point. When leaving services to private suppliers, an overall risk assessment must be carried out in order to identify and report the overall risk to management. Risk assessment and measures must take account of the limitations of the existing technical solutions. Both regular follow-up and new risk assessments are important when changes are made to the service or to the delivery structure. A third aspect is the need for competence. The health sector must have sufficient competence, capacity and structure to discharge its responsibilities for information security and privacy when using private suppliers. It is essential that safety considerations are taken into account at all stages, from the planning of an acquisition to the conclusion of the contract. This requires good ordering skills in the establishments. The report also points to matters that need to be followed up centrally. The first concerns the clarification of data processing responsibilities in the relationship between regional health businesses and health businesses. Data processing responsibilities are currently in the hands of individual healthcare providers. This may create a lack of clarity in the management and responsibility of acquisitions and the introduction of regional solutions and across the sector. The Directorate for eHealth believes that it is necessary to investigate whether data processing responsibilities as they are today are compatible with strategies for setting up joint solutions in the health and care sectors. Furthermore, an update of the Information Security Standard is recommended in the health and care sector. This includes, inter alia: procedures for overall risk management, national standard for access management and standardised data processing agreements. The sector is already working well to update the norm in line with this. This work is being managed today by the Directorate for eHealth. At the business meeting of regional health companies on 16 January, I asked regional health companies to base the recommendations in the report on further work on information security. On the issue of data processing responsibilities, investigation work has been started. It is intended that this will be sent to ordinary consultations during this spring. By letters of 9 May and 6 June 2017, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee raised important questions about the ICT issue in Health South-East. These were answered by me in letters of 15 May, 1 June and 13 June. The Committee included: interested in who had had improper access to information and whether the information on Norwegian patients could have strayed. It is clear from my correspondence with the Control and Constitutional Committee what measures I have taken in this matter. In the light of my briefings, the Committee has closed the matter. In connection with this presentation, I have asked all the regional health companies to draw up summaries of the access granted to external suppliers. The lists show where external suppliers' personnel have access to personal data in the world. The regional health establishments and Norsk Healthnet SF in close dialogue with NSM/NorCERT have assessed it so that those lists should not be published for reasons of the increased risk involved. There is an extensive use of external suppliers in both ICT solutions and medical-technical equipment. The regions use relatively similar technical solutions in their access management and control. Portal solutions are often established where suppliers can provide time-limited access/distance access in terms of service, support, updates, etc. I will present Health West as an example. This region has agreements with 129 private suppliers to contribute to the management, monitoring and error correction of hundreds of different ICT solutions and medical-technical systems. Of the 129 suppliers to Health Vest, 51 of the suppliers have access to solutions that contain sensitive personal data. However, this does not mean that all of these have access to patient records. There are often limited, fragmented data elements that are demanding to relate to identifiable patients and studies. Potentially, these 129 private suppliers may have a total of up to 467 authenticated employees who may, if necessary, be granted access to Health West’s systems. The majority of healthcare providers are given temporary access via encrypted VPN to perform agreed tasks. VPN is a virtual private network, a computer technique used to create secure point-to-point connections through the Internet. A few central providers may be granted continuously encrypted VPN access for monitoring and follow-up of their solutions over time or for agreed project periods. Health West has solutions in place for the continuous logging of encrypted VPN access, both time-limited and continuous. Such interaction must be managed in a systematic manner. These figures can be seen as high — perhaps also frighteningly high. However, we have to assume that this is the normal situation both in the Norwegian specialist healthcare service and in other countries with similar advanced specialist healthcare services that we have in Norway. There is a need for private suppliers where someone has restricted access for operation, service, support and updating of the systems and medical-technical equipment. However, it is essential to carry out risk assessments where safe information management is put first and ensured through data processing agreements with the suppliers concerned. This regime is described in the e-Health Directorate’s 2017 report. I will now focus on the specific ICT issue in Health South-East. This region has a slightly uniform ICT infrastructure, and parts of it do not meet modern requirements. This poses an increased risk that adverse events may compromise patient safety. As a result, over several years efforts have been made to consolidate and consolidate the ICT infrastructure of the health business. This work is managed by Health South-East Joint Service Provider, Hospital Partner. The merger between Health South and Health East in 2007 increased the complexity of the development of common regional ICT solutions and infrastructure. According to Health South-East, the merger led, inter alia, to: as a result of the Law on Government Acquisitions in some areas, the development of coherent ICT solutions and infrastructure had to start again. Hospital partners are currently operating an infrastructure with more than 40 data centres, more than 10,000 servers and a portfolio of 3000 applications. The number of applications is partly the result of different technological choices, including: as a result of different history in the two former regions. In this situation, it is difficult and expensive to establish regional services in Health South-East. There is a high cost of updating and modernising ICT infrastructure. In general, significant resource efforts are required to ensure safe and stable operation and adequate quality of service, which is essential for information security. In view of these challenges, Health South-East started in the autumn of 2013 a preliminary analysis of alternative approaches to modernising ICT infrastructure. The work on infrastructure modernisation was led by Health South-East RHF in close cooperation with the Hospital Partner. Several health establishments in the region have also participated. All health businesses were well informed about the work of the so-called Board of Renewals. Here all the managing directors participated in the health enterprises in the region, group trustees and user representatives. In 2014, it was concluded that it was desirable to initiate a process of partnership with an external supplier in order to modernise and operate the ICT infrastructure. The Governing Board was briefed on this in its meeting in October 2014. The Board of Directors has subsequently been briefed on the arrangements and status of the work on several occasions. The Governing Board decided in the Governing Board meeting in September 2016 that infrastructure modernisation would take place in cooperation with an external supplier. The board also decided that the contract with the most advantageous supplier would be concluded by the Hospital Partner. Hewlett Packard Enterprise, abbreviated HPE, was selected as a supplier and the Hospital Partner signed a contract on 14 October 2016. In autumn 2016, the Hospital Partner launched its own programme for modernising ICT infrastructure. It was originally planned to transfer the operational responsibilities and staff from the Hospital Partner to HPE on 1 May 2017. The original contract was transferred from HPE in spring 2017 to Enterprise Services Norway AS, which is part of the group DXC Technology. The latter is the result of a merger between CSC and HPE, which includes the part of HPE in question. Towards the business transfer on 1 May 2017, several access management and information security issues were raised. I also received several questions from Stortinget related to this. I realized that there was conflicting information between what was produced in the media and the information I received from Health South-East, and therefore asked for a thorough report from Health South-East. The Managing Director of Health South-East RHF decided to launch an external review of the modernisation programme under the auspices of the company’s auditor, PwC. Based on, inter alia: an interim report from PwC decided at the Governing Council on 24 May 2017 to suspend the modernisation programme. Changes were made in the administrative management of Hospital Partner and Health South-East in May and June 2017, and the entire board of Hospital Partner was replaced. PwC submitted the final report on 22 June 2017. This confirmed a failure in the preparations made to transfer operations to the private supplier. PwC’s external review showed that both access management and risk assessments had failed. At the same time, the external review concluded that it was unlikely that the relevant access had actually been used to obtain sensitive patient information. An important point to make was that, in its review, the PwC confirmed the need for modernisation of the ICT infrastructure. PwC studies showed that persons associated with the external supplier had extended administrative rights that provided access to patient information. PwC has verified in its final report that all these approaches are closed. PwC studies have not revealed abuse or attempted abuse of access to patient information. PwC demonstrated in its review that there was a lack of IT agreements in some sections, i.e. between Enterprise Services Norway AS and their subcontractors. Furthermore, the PwC report showed that the system for carrying out risk assessments did not function as an effective control mechanism. Unclear risk acceptance criteria led to confusion as to who could accept the risks. This may have resulted in relevant risks not being raised in the organisation. In addition, the report showed that the key risks associated with information security in the contract were not adequately assessed. Weaknesses were also identified in the organisation and management of the programme. The Data Protection Authority also engaged early in the ICT case in Health South-East. They sent a letter on 26 May 2017 to all healthcare companies in Health South-East. As a data controller, health professionals were asked to explain, among other things. the risk assessments underlying the decision to discharge the responsibility for ICT operations and the provision of ICT infrastructure in the region. Health businesses were asked to provide an overview of the number of external suppliers who had access to the hospital information system, the countries from which suppliers have access, the types of access provided by suppliers to which systems and personal data are available, and the purpose of the access granted. The Data Protection Authority has given a preliminary warning to healthcare companies about decisions on infringement fees for infringements of the personal data regulation, the Data Protection Act and the Patient Records Act. A final decision is not yet in place. The deviations and critical conditions mentioned in the prior notice of the Data Protection Authority are mainly related to the lack of risk assessments, lack of management anchoring and lack of a system to ensure that healthcare companies are able to assume their statutory responsibilities as data controllers. The facts resulting from the Data Protection Authority’s letter are in line with the findings of PwC previously made in its reviews. There is a general consensus that errors have been made in the management of the service outsourcing in Health South-East. Neither health businesses in the South-East nor the regional health company did well or did good enough preparatory work or risk assessments. My impression is that a number of risk assessments have been carried out in this work, but these have not been sufficient or implemented in all areas. It is important that all risk assessments are documented and management anchored. The work on modernising the infrastructure in Health South-East has proved to be very demanding. The Managing Director of Health South-East has therefore decided to establish information security as a separate responsibility of the management. Health South-East has taken action to reinforce its risk and vulnerability analyses. Furthermore, the regional health enterprise, in cooperation with health enterprises in the region, is in the process of looking at how risk assessments and management anchoring can generally be better placed in the system in the region. As the Data Protection Authority points out, this should include, inter alia: procedures are established to preserve the autonomy of health establishments by joint decisions. At the Management Board meeting of Health South-East on 28 June 2017, the Management Board asked the Executive Director to engage in dialogue with the Hospital Partners in order to ensure the implementation of projects and activities that are important for improving information security and to ensure safe and stable operation. The board also underlined that termination of the agreement would have to be further investigated and that work had to be started to determine how modernisation of ICT infrastructure could be carried out under the auspices of the Hospital Partner, in the event of termination of the agreement. The Board of Directors provided for broad involvement and involvement of employees and trustees. Health South-East is now investigating two options for the implementation of modernisation work. Good control of information security and privacy is a crucial premise in the work. The assessment is based on law and regulations, the e-Health Directorate's recommendations and policies and security architecture in Health South-East. Risk assessment of service deployment, current ICT infrastructure and alternative models is now envisaged. Furthermore, a separate impact assessment of privacy is planned. Health undertakings shall make independent assessments of the residual risk and impact assessment of data protection. There will be dialogue with the Data Protection Authority on this work. The suspension of the ICT infrastructure modernisation programme meant significant delays and additional costs. However, I believe that this was a completely necessary decision. The hospital partner entered into a new year agreement with DXC on the settlement of costs from October 2016 until the programme was suspended, as well as leasing and licensing agreements expired in 2017. The cost is going to add up to nearly 280 million. kr. It is therefore too early to say something about real economic losses, as you will benefit from parts of what has been developed. How much can be reused depends, for example, on: whether DXC will continue to play a role in further work. The Court of Auditors has previously demonstrated anomalies, including: as regards access management for health professionals in all regions. Health regions are now working to close the observed deviations. Hospital partners work on a number of infrastructure-related measures. The majority of actions are necessary and desirable for the region, regardless of options for modernising ICT infrastructure, and are part of the overall strengthening of the work on information security in the region. This applies, inter alia, to: efforts to strengthen access management. Furthermore, a solution for tracking and logging access to the infrastructure is introduced. The information security business environment is strengthened and the budget provides resources for further work on information security. Activities in the region related to the strengthening of information security are also in progress in addition to the work in progress in the Hospital Partner. Preparations are being made to meet new requirements resulting from the EU Data Protection Regulation in the region. Otherwise, Health South-East will introduce a model recognition solution related to healthcare professionals’ access to electronic patient records through the system DIPS. Pattern recognition implies an automated statistical analysis of all referrals in patient records based on common patterns of use. Through this systematic review of the logs, it will be discovered whether the patient records are looking up that deviates from normal look-up patterns. Look-ups that differ from the normal, are checked and followed-up manually. I mentioned earlier that risk assessments should be linked to three elements: availability, integrity and confidentiality. Although errors have been discovered, I also think it is important to remember that there is no evidence that information has gone astray, that information has been unavailable to those who are providing health care, or that information has been altered or misused. As you know, Health South-East has been subjected to a major hacker attack by an advanced and professional actor. The case has been reported to the police and is under investigation. So far, there is no evidence that patient treatment, patient safety or patient information has been compromised, but the latter cannot be excluded. On Monday 8 January, the Hospital Partner was notified by Norsk Healthnet that there was an abnormal activity against computer systems in the health region Health South-East. Through its HealthCERT, Norsk Healthnett is responsible for monitoring traffic in the Norwegian health network. In this case, HealthCERT has worked closely with NorCERT in the National Safety Authority, NSM. On Saturday 13 January, the investigations revealed new information that led to the attack being more serious than previously assumed. That is why the Directorate of Health was given responsibility for coordinating emergency work on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, in line with the National Health Emergency Plan. The data breach was reported by the hospital partner on Sunday 14 January, and formal investigation was initiated by PST. For example, PST should: identify whether information can be obtained for the benefit of a foreign country and identify any consequences thereof. This is a complex and complex attack, which will take time to get an overview. All available and relevant resources have been set up to assist Health South-East. The work is coordinated by the Joint Cyber Coordination Centre, FCKS, which consists of NSM, PST, the Intelligence Service and Kripos. We are working too hard to get an overview, limit damage and restore normal status. Health South-East has, in its follow-up, focused on cooperating and sharing information with the other health regions. For the purpose of the investigation, how much I can say about the content of the ongoing work is limited. However, I would like to stress that there is close and good cooperation between the health and justice sectors in this matter. The work on ICT modernisation in Health South-East and the discussion on access management and information security have created uncertainty. We must bring down this uncertainty, for example: by being clear on access control requirements. I have therefore requested the company meeting of regional health companies to follow up the recommendations in the report of the Directorate for e-Health. We also need to be honest about what access is needed. I believe it is important that regional health companies have now compiled an overview of foreign suppliers who have access to Norwegian patient information in the specialist healthcare service. A clear prerequisite for granting such access is compliance with the rules of law. This applies both to the rules of the Data Protection Act and to the specific rules on the processing of health data. These rules of law shall ensure that fundamental data protection considerations are respected. Key features of the eHealth Directorate are the need for adequate risk assessment, good and effective management anchoring and governance and adequate competence. Health business management, including the board of directors, must have sufficient competence to exercise effective governance and control in this area as well. Therefore, at the business meeting on 16 January this year, I strengthened the board of Health South-East with competence in ICT and information security. In the public sector, we generally need to work with preventive information security. As part of this work, the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, has been designated as the central government competence environment for information security and security in ICT acquisitions. The aim of the work is to facilitate an overall approach to information security in management. In addition, NSM is entrusted with a competence and guidance function in the field of information security beyond the scope of the Security Act. NSM points out that the digitisation of society is constantly creating new values and opportunities for development. But the digital, national vulnerability face is expanding, and the risk is increasing. Over several years, NSM has seen a steady increase in the number of targeted cyberattacks against Norwegian interests, both public and private. These attacks pose a threat to our values. Many businesses do not protect themselves well enough. The key to creating resilient preventive safety systems lies in the management and strengthening of safety work. The health sector has initiated closer cooperation with NSM in this area in order to ensure knowledge and systemicity in preventive safety work. In autumn 2017, the government also appointed an ICT Security Committee to investigate legal regulation in the field of ICT Security and the organisation of responsibilities. As I have said before, we need to use the world's leading methods and technologies to ensure a high-quality health service for the population. A modern healthcare service depends on external ICT suppliers. It implies that information security and privacy requirements must be laid down in agreements with them. Only this will achieve the confidence of the population, which is a prerequisite for the success of digitisation in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e578	The President will now propose, pursuant to Paragraph 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a closing statement from the Council of State of up to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e585	Monday, 8 January this year was probably proof that the ICT security in Health South-East is too poor, and it is serious – it must be emphasised. It is beginning to repeat that the Minister of Health must inform the Government of security breaches in our largest health region, where 60 pst. of the patients should be at home. It is easy to understand the complexity, of the long introduction of the Council of State, but it does not change the fact that this is a service that needs to be trusted. Patients and the population must have confidence in healthcare. Therefore, ICT security must be good. So, as the Council of State says, technology development often happens in other countries, it's market driven, and we want the best equipment into our hospitals. The report presented by the National Safety Authority in September states that vulnerability is increasing as we digitise the sector by sector, and in that perspective, we know that our healthcare is going through a number of major investments in ICT in the future. Then the question is, how are we rigged? Is that good enough? That's the question Stortinget always has to ask. My questions concern when the Council of State has known – I understand that he cannot tell everything – also related to the mission he sent to the Directorate of e-Health, which points out what we have already had a certain impression that there must be an overall security perspective that applies. But they don't go so far as to recommend that you don't outsource. It requires considerable competence, both at the supplier’s premises — obviously, but the supplier is, after all, in a market — and at those who are required to own, operate and integrate parts of a system as a whole. My questions to the Council of State, to which I hope he can answer, are: What is the cost picture of Health South-East? What is the consequence of having to conclude agreements in the middle of a period, as I understand that they must now do to important suppliers? How will you ensure that those who call for security, the Hospital Partner, the many employees, are heard? While the overall safety perspective is a managerial responsibility, it is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the RHFs have this perspective throughout. And finally, the Minister of Health must point downwards in his line of responsibility. I perceive that the Minister of Health is doing – perhaps a little too much. The size must point to the Council of State, and security must simply become more important to the Minister of Health. The size has a right to know about cost developments. We're facing big investments. Another health region almost entirely starts on scratch and is going to purchase ICT solutions for itself and 30–40 municipalities. The safety perspective, and those who call high among employees, and have done so throughout this process, needs to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e600	This matter is more serious than the impression of this issue. That health information about half of Norway's population is not safe, is rocking our trust in our health centre, but it is also a threat to the security of the state. Proper treatment of health information is part of the core tasks of the health care centre, and if we fail here, we will fail the entire health care centre. The Board of Health South-East adopted a decision on 8 September 2016 to further modernise the infrastructure of the region by using external suppliers. On 10 November 2016, the Minister of Health and Health said the following from the Stockholm Chair: ‘As mentioned above, the external supplier’s services are limited to ICT infrastructure, i.e. not patient journal systems or patient administration systems. The agreement with the service provider clearly requires all data centres to be located in Norway, including all patient data storage [[...]] Personnel operating the infrastructure shall not have access to systems or administrative systems where personal data are processed. [[...]] Operation of these systems shall continue to be provided by Hospital Partner HF. According to Health South-East RHF, all personal data will remain physical in Norway, and access to them will still be from Norway and limited to the Hospital Partners and the healthcare companies themselves. This means that personal data are not to be transferred to other countries or to any cloud service.» So the Control and Constitutional Committee took hold of what was a delusion of the Storting. Then the Minister for Health replied in a letter: ‘My answers in the inter-pelling debate refer to the security regime that shall be in place after the operation has been transferred to the external supplier.’» So what we were told in Stortinget was not about what could happen in the planning and follow-up phase. This is not a threat, is it? So to blame someone down the system: in this case, the Minister of Health and Health has consistently blamed health businesses. In letters to the Control and Constitutional Committee last spring, he refers to the Specialist Health Act. The letter says: «The right of the owner to direct business meetings should only be used in cases where this is necessary to ensure the overall responsibility and interests of the owner.» Yes, exactly! Once you should have intervened with the health companies, it was when you were not sure that our health information was safe. It's a danger, not for patients and hospitals, but for the security of the kingdom. It is clear that the Minister of Health knew what was going to be in the contract, but the contract was great, he was on many, many thousand pages, so here one has not been informed either. But it's a state council's responsibility to be. When it comes to costs, it was just that this was going to lead to more money for patient treatment, which was one of the arguments that the Council of State in a letter to the Stortinget said was the reason one was positive for a competitive postponement. Now we know that this has cost – so far – 280 million. kr. Even now, Health South-East is not out of the deal. Sickhouse parties have had over 300 million. kr on this project. One tried to keep secret this sum. The Data Protection Agency has fined millions of people. Health South-East has spent over 50 million. kr on immediate measures to clean up. We are left with a Health South-East that has a vulnerable ICT system that is now under attack. This is serious. However, the important issue now is whether the Council of State will ensure that basic ICT infrastructure in the health sector is defined as critical national infrastructure and is covered by the Security Act. That's what needs to happen now. Everything else that has been said in the distribution is more explanation or explanation. But will the Council of State ensure that its department defines basic ICT infrastructure in the health sector under the Safety Act and will it prevent the future outsourcing of the development and operation of critical national ICT services and systems in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e632	I would like to thank the Council of State for coming to the Stortinget. We are here today because people in Asia, Eastern Europe and Israel have had access to health data for 2.8 million Northers. We're once again being hacked. We're here because it's life threatening when health data get out of hand, like in the United Kingdom, where they had to shut down more hospitals. We're here because the Minister of Health doesn't control our sensitive patient information. We all agree that we must invest in ICT. What we disagree about is how we're going to do it. We have to clear up a very important misunderstanding that the council repeats over and over again. We are all here – also SV – agree that we should use private suppliers. What the Council of State has not explained is the most important thing, namely the real disagreement, which is that we should not privatize the very basic system of ICT. The base system is like the blood pumping into our body. It's pumping life into the entire health system. It is the employees who do the job, but without information about patients, access to machines, sharing and transmitting information, they cannot do their job. We all want to use private, but we can't privatize the very blood in health care. That's what the Council of State has accepted. The Council of State stated in its statement that this was about the use of private property. So we've cleared that up. Then the Council of State refers to the report of the Directorate for e-Health and says that they believe that this is right. Then it is either the state council or the directorate that answers incorrectly. We contacted the directorate and asked. They say that the report only talks about understanding today's legislation and what is possible – not a normative explanation of what is best to do, as the Council of State here claims. It is then claimed by the Council of State that there is no contradiction between information security and privatisation. No, you can buy some modules, but as any IT expert can tell us, if you open the basic systems, they have to be able to access the back way, and then they can access patient information. This is wrong. If you privatize the basic systems in IT, they get access, then they can access our patient data. I very much agree with the Council of State when he says that, among other things. is because the safety assessments have not been good enough. Then it is important for us in SV to make it quite clear that it is the Council of State's responsibility. Following the decision in Health South-East on 8 September 2016, some of the best experts we have asked for a meeting with the Council of State: Trade Union, NITO and EL and IT Association. They wrote that a multidisciplinary group has looked at this, they warn about ICT security, they warn and say that it can be made better and cheaper in public terms, that it is safer and can provide better clinical safety. It came at the top of that they also warned the board in Health South-East that this was dangerous. Nevertheless, on 14 September 2016, the Council of State responds to the fact that the Council of State is familiar with the area — and thus could not set aside time for a meeting. Governments have been warned by some of the best in the field. The board of Health South-East has had people who have spoken against this. Nevertheless, it has been completed, with the apologies of the Council of State. And he apologizes here that the approaches are not used. It is a bit like apologizing that you forgot to lock all the bank vaults and then say yes, yes, but no one did. The problem here is that we have exposed Norwegian health data to serious danger. The Council of State also states in its statement that the board of Health South-East is now increasing with ICT competence. That competence already existed, according to the trade unions, and they warned the most strongly against this. So now we have to solve the problems that the Right Party government has been able to handle. How we build the health system today determines how we get it tomorrow. Today, we are happy that the politicians of the day ensured state ownership and security of roads, rail and natural resources such as water and oil – despite resistance from the right. Now we're facing such a crossroads in the health care system. Everything depends on the digital infrastructure. It's the blood in our health care system. We can choose between ICT scandals and privatisation and building strong official controls – to ensure our common health system, to stop the privatisation agreements in Health South-East, which the Council of State accepted for good advice, to include this in the Security Act and to ensure national control and operation with our important patient information and health data.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e653	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough briefing. I would like to start where the representative Mr Wilkinson concluded with whom he has been able to do this. The Councils were in the merger process between Health South and Health East, which became Health South-East, and pointed out that the Hospital Partner, which is currently Health South-East ICT companies, has 40 data centres, 10,000 computer servers and 3,000 applications. I think it's time we had a discussion about the whole of the Norwegian health sector and how digitisation starts to shape such a big sector. Only the specialist health service is about to take 150 billion. kr of the state budget, and we add to a primary health service that has almost the same, it is a major economic activity for the state, but it is increasingly permeated by digitisation. One sector we're not talking about here is the municipal sector. I have asked questions to the investigation department about how many computers we have in the municipal sector that organize our patient data, and the answer is simple and brutal: nobody knows that in Norway. But the best estimate they can give is between 20,000 and 60,000 computer servers collecting personal information about us in municipalities. Half of the municipalities use the Finnish supplier Tieto’s system Gerica to organise the patient data. It's a private supplier. It also leads me to Estonia, which is used as one of the examples to which we are referring, and which has a very small number of computer servers – in general we can almost talk about just one, but they say they have 13, one for each public sector, and Tieto is one of those who have been involved in developing the X-Road platform in Estonia, which allows them to have so much personal data about the Estonian population collected on a few computer servers. But Estonia is also dealing with the rest of the world. They have green data centres on other continents, because if the data centres in the worst case are taken down by Russia, or there is a natural disaster, the patient data should be up and go in the form of a data centre in another country. So that this is just a national issue, we're far from being able to say, and we have to discuss the whole of this business that's completely got to live its own life with a lot of decision-makers and actors that you can wonder to what extent has had the patient's best in mind. This is the big debate here: as there is so much diversity, it is also demanding to move on and make decisions on how to do it. The debate on social critical infrastructure is obviously part of this, and then we also need to discuss the safety law, for this debate started for real in the autumn of 2016, when Health South-East insisted that it was not possible to access patient data through the agreement you were entering into with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, HPE, at the time. It is eloquently stated that they did not even care about it – it is actually possible. Therefore, we need to discuss safety legislation and who needs to be cleared for safety in order to manage patient data in Norway. It is also another matter that we need to discuss: which actors will be able to operate the applications on the digital motorways. Another country that is interesting to see is Australia, which is known for having health as its largest export item, but also a quite privatized health care. The interesting thing is that there is the actual state that programmes and operates the digital motorways for health, and then they let in the private programmers and actors to develop and operate them. Then they also roll out large programmes to educate the health sector, and we also need to start discussing this: the skills that health professionals need and that they do not currently have in their education. So I'll put a big question mark on whether the users have really been involved in these processes in Health South-East. The hospital partner does not have a user board, and when Health South-East has discussed these issues, the user board has been placed at the front door and has not been given any participation in the discussions, nor are they decision-making in Health South-East. So I think we should also discuss it -- we need to involve users much more here, so that more people understand what's really going on in this sector right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e670	ICT is a challenge. ICT is also a challenge in that development often goes faster than we can follow. As regards Health South-East, it was established on 1 June 2007. So my question is not only to the Council of State, but also to the parties that were then in government – if they had carried out good enough risk assessments for two health companies to merge. I think it's time to also ask them questions here. There is no excuse for us being there today, but the question is, What basic work was done then? And is there any of the results that we're now left with? I think that's some of the explanation, but not all of it. ICT is central. We'll never get out of this in the health system. It's about X-rays. It's about robot operations. It's about journal systems. It's about blood tests. It's about EKG. It's about our patient information, which we're totally dependent on, and which is central to most people. Then people have to know: Can I trust the information that is available and those that work there? Can I be confident that I can get my information up in Oslo as in Stavanger, if I should get seriously ill? I need to make sure that those who are not to be informed do not receive them, that those who are to be informed receive them, and that the information they receive is correct. I have to be sure that I get up this information when I need it most. And I need to be sure that those who are going to take care of this information do not misuse my information. I need to know that confidentiality is being respected, that my privacy is being protected, and that my information should be for those who need access to it. Who will then have access to this information? That'll be the big question. Finally, to get a whole hand, as ICT really is, and as a patient I am completely dependent on: trust, security, confidentiality, access and a total risk assessment must be important in order for me to be able to say that it's okay, we have security around our ICT solutions and our patient information. After hearing the investigation from the Council of State, I am concerned about: What is the time perspective for the work currently being done in Health South-East? This is a critical work, knowing that we both have risk assessments and have to take the necessary measures on the emergency side, while at the same time working to get the system and the confidence of the population who has their patient information in the medical record system to the south-east, to go up, so that a person is able to provide the patient information, the journal systems and the ICT solutions in health south-east a different reputation than they have today. My other question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State guarantee – which is now to be made – the ICT solutions in Health Mid-Norway, Health North and Health West? What kind of risk assessments are being carried out? We all know that we will be dependent on good and safe platforms to be sure that the health care that is needed is to be provided, based on the fact that the information about us is secured. That is why I want answers from the Council of State to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e695	This is a serious matter, not least because there have been so many warnings – warnings that have been ignored. NITO, Trade Union and EL and IT The Association asked for a meeting with the Council of State because they were concerned that access to sensitive patient information would not be adequately protected if the health care provider used staff abroad. But the department replied that they did not need a meeting, because the council knew the matter well enough. Both trust-elected, professionals and security experts warned against flagging out ICT operations in Health South-East to the rest of the world. My question is, what is the reason why the Minister of Health chose not to listen to these warnings? For the choice of not listening to the warnings, there have been significant consequences for patient safety. The right to privacy is laid down in Article 12 of the Declaration of Human Rights. The management of patient data by health authorities violates the human rights of 2.8 million Norwegians. Few places are more important to this right than meeting the health care system. Sensitive information which is absolutely non-accessible to persons other than health professionals may be involved. The Minister for Health can no longer discharge his responsibilities. Disclaimer breaks down trust, trust between society and health services. When you meet the health care system in a vulnerable situation, you expect your health information to be safe and that they will not get away with it. That is the security that is so vital to trust. The Minister of Health must make sure that confidence is not broken. Trust must always be built and it must be processed. There are many health workers around the country who take care of it every day. But in this case, the Minister of Health is responsible for a violation of the privacy of patients, a violation that can create distrust. When the Data Protection Authority issued the report which clearly showed that there had been several offences in the service-sourced infrastructure, they also wrote the following in their report: ‘There is reason to stress that the case is special because it is the first time Norwegian health companies have decided to place the operation of the entire health region’s ICT infrastructure to external suppliers abroad. Operation includes the processing of health information on more than half the population of Norway and the case is therefore also in principle in view of similar projects currently being planned in the health sector.» Here the Minister of Health must take responsibility. And this time, the Minister of Health must listen to those elected to trust and to professionals. Flagging and privatisation affect patient safety. It should therefore not be repeated. It's not good for patients, not for employees, not for trust. The desire of some private companies to make more money is no more important than patient safety and health care. We have to learn from the errors and not repeat them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e713	I want to start by saying that patient data and patient information are important, and I feel that everyone in this room is very much in agreement. It's about people being able to trust that the information about them is being kept in a good way, so this is such an incredibly important area. I listened to the representative Wilkinson, and he used a pretty loud voice. It often happens that I do too, but there was a loud outburst from the representative Wilkinson and a pretty high cigarette feed – I might not have to say that, but that was a bit of what I was thinking. It wasn't all that worked well under the red-green when it came to ICT systems. Unfortunately, there have been challenges in this area. I think the Council of State presented the situation in a very good way and how to now work to close what has been discovered, and prevent you from experiencing, for example, in the future. Get a break-in, which was the attack we had on 8 January. I feel that the Council of State is very clear and has sent clear orders downwards on how to handle this. I also registered that the Council of State said that he had strengthened the board of Health South-East with this kind of competence, and I think that is also very important. Security is incredibly important, because it's about patients and all those who are going to use it, and that you have to be sure that the information that's there is well secured. In fact, the information that patients provide may be the information that applies when it is given in minutes or seconds. Therefore, trust and trust in this information is so important. I'm probably not quite in the choir that some opposition representatives who have been up on the platform are in. But I fully agree that it is serious, that it must be taken into account, and that it will be taken into account. It's absolutely crucial, and I feel that the Council of State has presented this in a very good way in Stortinget. I also register that SV has now said that private people should be able to deliver parts of this, and I think that is important. I believe that in much of this, it is necessary to use the private sector to provide good services and to ensure that we have the best ICT systems – those that are safe and that provide patients with the best possible care. I think it has been a good explanation, but this also shows that healthcare companies must continue to work on this. The Directorate is working well on this, and you have to keep doing that in the future. We, on the part of the Progress Party, are at least very concerned to ensure that the information is kept safe and secure. You may never be able to resist new attacks – unfortunately, someone wants to destroy these types of systems – but at least it's important to do everything you can to ensure it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e727	I will try to answer some of the questions that have come so far in this round – first of all, the question from Kjerkol about the cost picture: As I said in my presentation, there is an agreement between Health South-East and the company of 280 million. kr, which also includes licensing agreements in 2017. How much of this could be said to be money lost or wasted, it is not possible to answer now, because it depends entirely on how much of these investments can be used further in the process. It is again depending on the solution health south-east continues to land, so it is not possible to answer it now. The question of how to hear those who call for security, I have followed up with both the directorate and the health companies, stressing the importance of, among other things. the involvement of trustees in the work, such as: has been working on the report presented by the e-Health Directorate in September. A number of representatives have raised issues related to the Safety Act. The size now has a new safety permit for treatment. I decided relatively early that health regions should be covered by the Safety Act, that is also the case today, and that means that they will be covered by the new Safety Act. The regional health companies and Norwegian Health Network established a safety organisation in 2015 and then sent the Ministry a self-declaration that they had established safety measures to handle safety-rated information. The scope of the new law will be extended if it is adopted as proposed. Several of the functions of the RHF may be covered by provisions on objects, infrastructure, safety with a background to a change in risk profile, technological development and the latest events in the work of regional health enterprises, including measures for: ensuring ICT infrastructure. Cooperation between the Ministry of Health and Health and the National Safety Authority has also been established, involving regional health companies, the Directorate for eHealth, the Directorate for Health and the Norwegian Health Network. At the business meeting on 16 January, I also asked the health regions to review measures to ensure that both health regions and health businesses are ready to implement the new safety law when it comes into force. Then, of course, it also needs to be reconsidered, for example. which objects are hedged on the basis of the law adopted by the Storting. Otherwise, there was a part in the presentation of the story of the representative Toppe's posts that I'd like to describe as an alternative, but those who want to find an answer to this can read the answers I've given to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, which dealt with some of those questions. I am also pleased that the representative Wilkinson is so clear that SV agrees that a modern healthcare service is dependent on private subcontractors to provide modern and proper health services, not least the digitisation we are facing. With regard to whether or not the border is at the ICT infrastructure, there are no very clear recommendations on this. Both the National Safety Authority’s report and the eHealth Directorate’s report are very clear on what assumptions must be based in any case, regardless of whether a chooser has a private service provider or develops it under public authority. There is reason to say that the ICT infrastructure currently in place by Health South-East has been developed under public control. The vulnerability in it I think is obvious to all of us today. The ICT infrastructure developed and managed by the public is not a guarantee of security. This must be a concrete assessment, not least a good risk analysis. That's exactly what, among other things. failure of the process in Health South-East. It would also have been necessary regardless of which solution is the best. The time perspective, as the representative of Bollestad noted, is that during the spring Health South-East will make decisions on the solutions they choose to put the modernisation of ICT infrastructure back on track. I agree that it is absolutely essential that this work starts up again, because we have a too vulnerable ICT infrastructure in Health South-East, among other things. in the light of historical developments, which I have also explained. It is also the case that I have made stricter requirements for risk assessment through the various tasks. This applies to all health regions, including health regions other than Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e746	The President will propose that the Health Minister’s statement on access management and information security in Health South-East be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then we go to case No. 2, which by an incursion was skipped.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e764	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e780	Children and medicinal products are an important area of health policy, where they have traditionally placed a strong emphasis on the precautionary principle. This is particularly true of the unborn. Unable to ignore a negative effect on the foetus of a medicinal product, a raw mother should refrain from using it. For many years this has been a professional but also political debate on the Health Directorate's national guidelines for women in LAR. The inconsistency has been about what is best for the child, and what is the consequences for the child if mother takes LAR medication during pregnancy. In April 2016, when the Stortinget addressed the Action Plan for the drugs field, a Joint Committee clearly stated that the national guidelines for LARs and pregnant women should be amended. A decision was made to ask the government to require health services to provide all women of reproductive age to start up in LAR, detailed information on LAR treatment and pregnancy. While women in the LAR who wish to have children must be provided with help to dismantle LAR drugs, the Committee also stresses the need to make individual assessments of the consequences of the possible escalation. A Joint Committee also decided to ask the government to put in place a simple and unbureaucratic system to provide women in LAR with free long-term prevention at LAR start-up. The question is what the government and health authorities have done to introduce their decision. It is a reality that every year it is born approx. 30 children who are addicted to alcohol. And for every year that goes without a change here, health professionals have to accept Abstinent Children in Norwegian maternity wards. We know today that all forms of drug during pregnancy pose a threat to the foetus and the child being born. Children who are born by mother in LAR, often go straight into strong withdrawals. It's a terrible start to life, and it's an unacceptable start to life. Pregnant women can be coerced out of the womb, for the child's sake, but for women who go to the LAR, it's different. Health authorities have suggested that it is better to include pregnant addicts in LAR than not to do it. Mother's need for medication has weights. The current guidelines for pregnant women in LAR came in 2011. In these it is stated that women in the LAR should still be given medication if they become pregnant. It is claimed that there is uncertainty about the effect this has on the child. But health professionals working with these children have always been different. They tell about children who have seizures, throw up – that is, the same thing as adults who have withdrawals. The LAR guidelines state that women in the LAR should be offered prevention, so there is no intention, nor is there a call for prevention. It is also a fact that women who start up in LAR have an increased risk of becoming pregnant if they do not use contraception. Many people report that this group has not been automatically offered free of charge of long-term prevention. It had to be applied for, and it wasn't always as easy to get into practice. In June 2017, the Health Directorate organised a consensus conference on LAR and pregnant women. In November 2017, the consensus panel presented its report. They made clear recommendations, which have been well received in the subject environment, and which are in line with what Stortinget wrote in the comments in the settings of the Rappelungplan for the drug field. The consensus report considered that the precautionary principle should be given greater emphasis than current guidelines, and one cannot ignore the fact that both methadone and buprenorphine can cause harm to the foetus. The consensus panel concluded that the recommendation to maintain the use of LAR products should be amended. Instead of recommending that the use of LAR medicinal products should be continued during pregnancy, they believe that the recommendation must be that the use of LAR medicinal products may be continued during pregnancy. They believe that today's recommendation that tapering should be limited to a degression between the 14th and the 32nd weeks of pregnancy should no longer be included in the guidelines. They think buprenorphine is the preferred medicine if LAR medication is to be passed on during pregnancy. They then recommend that one provide information on the consequences of LAR medicines on the health of the children, and that the pregnant woman in LAR should enter into a contractual obligation to refrain from drugs other than those on which she relies. And the consensus panel believes that the guidelines need to address more fully the non-medicinal treatment methods that you can offer to a woman who wants to become pregnant. They also recommend that children born of mothers with opioid dependence should be followed up beyond school age, which is the reality today. Then the consensus panel adds that it is their experience that today there are stronger demands for investigation of possible harm to the unborn child by introducing a medicine than it has been done with LAR medicine. It's one of those thoughts. The consensus panel concluded that, at LAR start-up, fertile women should be strongly advised to use long-term prevention. Only if a woman is unable to voluntarily use contraception or is unable to consent can an application become relevant. According to the Consensus Panel, a directive that lasts as long as a woman is in LAR will not be acceptable under human rights, but they consider that a time-limited prevention directive at LAR start-up, until women are stabilised, is a much less invasive measure and may be acceptable under human rights law. Legal secrecy is required to intervene in the right to self-determination, and even if a condition for prevention is linked to the fact that a woman receives LAR from the public, it is so intrusive that it can hardly be imposed without a legal secret to do so. The consensus panel believes that the promise in that case should mention this as a possibility. One of my questions is whether the government council will follow up this recording from the consensus panel. The question is also whether the Minister of Health and Health thinks what he is writing when he says in reply to a written question from the local representative Tellef Inge Mørland: «Until a new guideline is available, the current guideline applies.» A new guideline will not be ready for implementation until 2019. Then several years have passed since the Stortinget made its decisions, and we have had a report that supports what we decided. But the interesting thing is that the Health Directorate on the homepages writes: ‘Until there is a revised guideline, the Directorate-General for Health asks that the controller in future emphasise the precautionary principle in line with such consensus panel recommendations. There will be an individual assessment based on the situation and wishes of the woman, whether it is possible to descend and the manner in which it is to be done.’;» My questions are: How will the consensus panel follow up? Is the current guideline to apply until a new one has arrived, or is it as the Health Directorate writes, that one has to include the recommendations already now? Or is it another way the Minister of Health thinks that Stortinget's decisions should be followed up? I also have a question about prevention. Is it now that women in the LAR are given a simple and unbureaucratic form of long-term prevention? Are they strongly encouraged to use contraception, as the recommendations are? And will a start a trial where a follower of children born to mothers in LAR, beyond the age of 7?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e815	It is an important theme that the representative Toppe addresses in this interview. It's a theme that I've been engaged for years. Pregnant addicts are a vulnerable patient group, and I am pleased that the consensus panel has done a thorough work on recommending the treatment of women in medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR. This report will be followed up. National guidelines for drug-assisted rehabilitation in opioid dependence from 2011 contain advice and recommendations for the services of people dependent on heroin or other opioids. In 2012, the national guideline for pregnant women in medically assisted rehabilitation and follow-up of families was reached by school age. [[LAR]] Overall, these two guidelines cover all aspects of the LAR. As you know, there has been a professional disagreement about the Health Directorate’s national guidelines for pregnant women in LAR. This disagreement has primarily concerned the best interests of the child, as we lack knowledge of the possible consequences for the child if mother is taking LAR medicines during pregnancy. The Health Directorate held a Consensus Conference on Pregnancy and the LAR in June 2017. A consensus conference is a formal method for selecting a subject on which there is a technical disagreement. The Health Directorate set up a panel and invited professionals to present research and knowledge summaries about pregnant women and LAR. The panel delivered a report in December 2017, based on input from the conference and national and international knowledge on the theme. The Panel has evaluated expert opinions, jussism, ethics and user voices expressed at the consensus conference. The Health Directorate has set up a high-speed working group with representatives from child protection, health centre, children’s ward, infant care centre, mental health and rudimentary services — including the Department of Pregnant and Infant Families, Women’s Clinic and User’s Organisations. A number of health professionals are also part of the working group. The working group shall review the technical guidelines for pregnant women in the LAR and follow-up until the child reaches school age. The work shall be completed in June 2018. The consensus panel assumes that the precautionary principle should be more focused than the current guideline does. The Health Directorate stresses that they will focus on this in the work on the new guidelines. The Health Directorate points out that the 21 December 2017 sent letters to all the country’s LAR actions, the health regions, the State Health Authority and user organisations on how they will follow up the report of the Consensus Panel. The Directorate requests the services of the controller to provide the precautionary principle in line with the recommendations of the consensus panel until a revised guideline is available. The letter clarifies that there will be an individual assessment based on the situation of the woman and that it is possible to step down and the manner in which this may be done. The Directorate for Health further writes: ‘The day’s guideline recommends that women of childbearing potential use contraception when starting LAR and determines that the hormonal spiral should be the recommended drug. [[long-term prevention]] The Health Directorate asks those responsible for the treatment that long-term prevention is offered and discussed at the start of LAR in women of childbearing potential.» I am pleased that the Health Directorate communicates so clearly that they will comply with the emphasis of the consensus panel on the precautionary principle when they are now revising the technical guideline and that they will give priority to this work in 2018. As regards the question of the follow-up to the possibility for women in LAR to receive long-term prevention and information, in 2017, all health regions were entrusted with the following task: ‘to ensure that LAR women are informed about LAR treatment and pregnancy and offer for the tapering of LAR drugs, and access to free long-term contraceptives under the auspices of LAR’. I was already informed by the governance dialogue with the health regions last autumn that this requirement has been implemented, and I therefore believe that points II and III of the Storting Decision have been implemented on 28 April 2016. The first decision concerning all women with serious drug dependence on an offer of free long-term prevention will be considered when we now have experience in distributing free long-term free-of-charge prevention to women in the LAR.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e846	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It is important that one of the health authorities look at that issue. As you know, there has been a long debate, and I have seen through my years in Stortinget that there is a rather cross-political consensus on this issue. I have – to put it mildly – experienced that there has been a resistance in some parts of the professional community that may have caused so many years to pass. We've had a political experience that it's been a distance from the professional community working with the kids out there, and the professional community more centrally. It has been our problem politically for us, we have had many similar decisions in the past as we have now, which have also not been followed up. I am therefore grateful for the fact that our decisions, which are also in line with the consensus panel's report, can now lead to a change in the framework of LAR treatment for pregnant women. It's a difficult issue, of course, because it's the mother's concern versus the child's concern, but it's a paradox, as I said in my first post, when it's such that one has better protection when introducing other drugs when it's related to harm to the unborn child than when it's about LAR medication, and I think we have to take it with us. We are concerned that this must lead to fewer children being born with withdrawals. Then prevention is one of the measures. I understand from the council's answer that it's going to be okay now, that a both get it for free and that there's more system on it. I notice that the Health Directorate says that one should only offer and discuss, but the consensus panel recommended that there should be a strong uproar, so then one of the questions is: Is there a downroar, this by offering, that there is not such a strong uproar? It was a question of that. So to the other thing, which wasn't a whole big thing was some in, if it were an absolute condition. It also does not state the consensus panel, but it opens up that in some cases there may be a legal secret to set it as a condition for a limited period of time. Is there something the Council of State wants to go on with?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e855	I agree with the representative's presentation that this has been a matter in which enough political, in Stortinget, have listened very much to the professional community that has special competence in the field of children. So we know that there has been a disagreement between the professional community that has worked most closely with the addicts, and that has focused on the situation of the woman, and the professional environments that have their competence mainly related to children. That's why I think going through a consensus conference, where one also got international experts, was really a very wise way to get past the professional disagreements, which have been in this area. I am also pleased that the consensus conference ended on the side that I experience has political support in Stortinget, although this is basically a very professional question. I understand that in my mission to the health regions, I am very clear that women entering the LAR will be given information about pregnancy and the provision of LARs, and they will also have access to free long-term contraceptives in the name of LAR in a simple and straightforward way. There is no doubt that many people have a desire to have children after entering a treatment facility, but I think most people also have a desire to plan it well and do it at the right time, while what happens to many women who have been addicted to alcohol for many years, and who enter the LAR, is that they can now get pregnant more easily and can therefore also experience getting pregnant without necessarily planning it. Therefore, it is also important that they receive this type of information and offer free long-term prevention, so that they can plan this in a good way. This is an individual question, which the individual has to consider for himself, but they need to get the right information and proper guidance and also access to long-term prevention in a free and easy way, which I now experience is the case. With regard to the question of whether one here is more likely to be clear in its recommendations, also based on legislation, I would point out that a working group related to the new guidelines has now been set up, which will be completed in June 2018. If they think that such a legal basis should be in place, we'll get recommendations on that, but I'd like to wait for their work. The Health Directorate has been very clear to the service that this precautionary approach will apply from now until the new guidelines are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e864	The question of guidelines for pregnant women receiving LAR treatment is an important issue in which the Workers' Party has committed itself. Every year, about 30 children are born who have a mother who has gone to LAR medicine, such as, Methadone, in pregnancy – children who according to e.g. The child ombudsman is born as a drug addict and must immediately start a tapering with morphine. It's not a good start in life for a child to be born with abstinence, and we can't get old with newborn health. It is therefore important that new guidelines for LAR treatment for pregnant women be put in place as soon as possible by the Council of State in order to build on new and up-to-date knowledge and the precautionary principle. Therefore, as early as December, the Workers' Party raised this matter in a written question to the Council of State and through a notice in the evening post. In the draft government budget, the Council of State wrote that the Health Directorate had started to revise the current guidelines for LAR, which were due to be completed in 2018. However, during the examination of the case by the Health and Care Committee, it was found that the new guidelines would not be completed until 2019, which the Council of State itself described as regrettable in its answer to my written question on 15 December 2017. It is regrettable that the Council of State has not developed new guidelines for LAR until 2019. This may indicate that the government has not given sufficient priority to this work. This makes it all the more important for the Council of State to ensure that the fixed-track guidelines for pregnant women in LAR treatment are provided. In December, the Council of State replied that only a plan for the revision process of the revised guideline had been drawn up. Based on what the Council of State has now said, I hope you have managed to lift this work and give it the weight it deserves. It is positive if the Council of State can now guarantee that we will have new guidelines for pregnant women in the LAR by June 2018. I understand from the Government's response that this is exactly what he is doing now – that we can expect the guidelines to be in place in June 2018, and that there is nothing to suggest that we might get a postponement of it. Because, as the Children's Ombudsman said to the Evening Post in December, society cannot afford to have 60 more children born with abstinence. I want to add: these kids deserve us as politicians to say that we've done everything we can to make them the best possible start in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e875	Drug addicts are vulnerable patients. When you're pregnant and addicted to alcohol, there are two vulnerable patients, and it's clearly extra complex. The consensus panel’s thorough work on recommendations on the treatment of women in medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR, provides an important basis for further work. Today, drug treatment is similar to treatment in somatic and mental health protection. Measures and treatment are regulated through legal acts, circulars and national guides to ensure that the provision of treatment is based on knowledge-based practices and is subject to continuous documentation and evaluation. In the right, we find it desirable to ensure a good development of all kinds of treatments. Drug - free treatment must also be a choice in all situations. The requirement is, of course, that the patient is motivated for it, which is why a short time between the first meeting and treatment is very important. This has been addressed by the Minister, and he wishes that there should be a requirement that there should be no more than one day from referral to treatment. It is unlikely that we will ensure individual treatment adjustments and that all the different options in the given situation will be real. In recent years, good treatment effects have been reported by interventions established with a clear treatment ideology, including in the field of drug-free treatment. We see reported results where drug-free treatment works well for many with long-term drug use and heavy additional stress in the form of mental disorders, trauma, relationship problems and other additional problems – treatment that seemed to be of great value also for later drug use, health, well-being and everyday function. LAR is an important treatment provision for addicts who are not ready for a restless life, and I see it as perfectly obvious that one needs to ensure a continuous assessment, one opens up for one to adapt and develop the supply afterwards, and one ensures that one meets the expectations of a healthcare provider for the patient — even when there are two patients to be considered. I look forward to the report being followed up, and I am pleased that the Minister has emphasised that until new guidelines are in place, the precautionary principle should apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e890	It is an important debate the representative of Toppte travels. LAR treatment is very good for many, of course also for women. But there are also challenges associated with someone becoming pregnant and having major consequences for the children. That is why I am very pleased that the recommendations of the consensus panel are clear and clear, and I feel that there is a great deal of consensus in the Stortinget about what you want here. I also think it is good with the follow-up that the Council of State has presented to you in the resolution of the Storting in connection with Prop. 15 S for 2015–2016. It's very good, and it shows that this is being followed up in a good way. This is, of course, difficult because there are women who, as the previous representative said, are in a difficult situation and may not want to have a restless life, but are pregnant, which can have major consequences for the child when it is born. You've seen the consequences. So this is a difficult matter, but I am very pleased with the consensus panel's recommendations and that the Council of State also says that it is now being followed up, and that it offers for the tapering of LAR drugs and ensures information about different offers. I think it has been very good that the interpellant has raised this matter, and I think there is a very broad consensus in this room about where to go and where to go, and therefore I am very pleased with the debate that came today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e901	Thank you to the interpellant for addressing a very important issue. Pregnancy under LAR is unfortunate as it causes the child severe pain, withdrawals and possible sensitisation. It's heartbreaking. Abstinence children have been brought up constantly, both among professionals, in the media and here on the Stortinget. There is a high political awareness around this – fortunately. No one wants the children to be born with abstinences, but it is also not wise to make thresholds that can shut out or scare women from receiving the necessary follow-up and assistance. We must therefore move wisely in this field. In February 2016, the Left Minister for Health challenged to acquire an independent knowledge base and to develop new national guidelines for pregnant women in medically assisted rehabilitation. It is therefore gratifying that a new guideline is now coming in 2018 and that the Health Directorate should emphasise the precautionary principle in the work of the Consensus Panel. The Left agrees with the Minister of Health that the dwindling, possibly termination, of LAR during pregnancy must be based on an individual assessment based on the situation and wishes of the woman. We also believe that free long-term prevention needs to be offered as easily as possible, and that good guidance is strongly recommended when starting LAR. An important key lies precisely in good guidance and close follow-up, and that it is free of charge. It is therefore appropriate that the Ministry of the Mission Document of the Regional Health Companies for 2017 emphasised that long-term prevention should be free of charge. This brings me to a different but equally topical topic of drug dependence and pregnancy. In the Left, we are very pleased with Decision No. 627, stressing the Storting's desire for the government to consider giving access to free contraception to all seriously addicted women, including those who are addicted to alcohol. It is important to prevent children from being born with FAS, foetal alcohol syndrome. We know that the adverse effects of alcohol on the foetus can be serious and lifelong. We therefore have an important challenge in the future to reach alcoholic women of childbearing potential, but also those who are addicted to alcohol outside the LAR. In order to cope with this, the provision of free long-term prevention needs to be disseminated in many places, in health centres, in permanent doctors, non-governmental organisations, etc. In the left we think it's putting people first and being led was, and as a bonus on everything, it's also very profitable in a social perspective to ensure this. We therefore look forward to the further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e912	The Christian People's Party agrees with the interpellant that the panel's recommendations must be followed up quickly and in depth. LAR may work well for the right target groups, but the threshold for getting into the programme has been low, and the threshold for getting out has become high, contrary to what was intended for LAR. I agree with the representative from the Right that we must never lose the goal of drug-free treatment. LAR and pregnancy are not a good combination. We can't sit still and watch kids suffer and get hurt. I believe that health services must help women in the LAR programme to take care of the child they have in their stomachs, and meet the situation they are in, with the least possible or without medication. Yes, this can actually also include coercion. Pregnant drug addicts who are part of the LAR programme should be able to be coerced into a detoxification institution in line with other drug addicts. Those who work with the kids who have withdrawals, who have cramps, who have pain, have really been on to lift these kids up and down. For me, it's a paradox that exactly the group that works with these patients has Health South-East, which has 60 pst. by all total patients, actually selected to reduce in their impact field. They have made the choice at the Borgestadklinik, which has offered treatment and offers for the group we are talking about here – not only during pregnancy and detoxification, but also after the child is born. This is an offer that is important for both mother and child, and the Christian People's Party does not think we need fewer such offers, but more. The Christian People's Party also believes that women in a LAR programme must be followed up incredibly closely during pregnancy, and the precautionary principle suggests that we should actually stop LAR to pregnant women now. It's really saying the precaution principle, and then we're waiting for guidelines. There's not enough encouragement, and there's not enough discussion. That's good, and it's good to get guidelines. All of this is good, but the question is, do we see these kids now? The kids that are being born now. The kids in the newborn ward now. The kids who are now actually paying the price because we're not rushing with this decision. It is not, I think, the mother's wish that these kids suffer either. That is why it is our responsibility to set up and help. I would like to thank the interpellant for raising such an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e923	Thank you very much to all those who have taken part in the debate. To the Council of State, which says this is a professional question: it is, so it might not be so strange that we are engaged in what kind of drugs one treats women in the LAR. But we're also involved in children's courts, and that's what makes this also an important political issue. I'm not sure how long these new guidelines will be implemented. Is it in 2018? Or is it 2019? It's been said a little bit differently, and I've read a little bit differently. And it's not just about the guidelines, it's also about out-of-office practices. So I'd like to challenge the state council on the new leaders who have come with the pre-war, etc. The important thing is that a person gets changed practices out there, and that those who work with pregnant women in LAR get different routines, get different frameworks and other assessments that always need to be evaluated for drug-free treatment first. There shall be an assessment of deceleration. One should have a strong uproar. All of this must be done. So the question is, what's going on? The Health Directorate has sent out a letter, but is there anything else done to ensure that the practice is actually changed, and that we do not get an evaluation in two years to show that it has actually continued as before? In addition to that, I would like to thank a thousand for the Council's response and for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e937	I will first – hopefully – clarify some misunderstandings relating to the guidelines for the LAR and what is in the budget proposal, and some of the statements that have been in the media related to this. What is mentioned in the budget proposal is the general guidelines for LAR. So there are not guidelines for pregnant women in LAR, but general guidelines. There is now a work being done, among other things. includes the drugs to be used in the general LAR treatment. It is a work that unfortunately is not finished until 2019. However, on the basis of the report of the consensus meeting, the Health Directorate has set up a fast-working working group to revise the guidelines for pregnant women in LAR. This work is planned to be completed in June 2018. Pending that work, the Directorate sent a letter on 21 December 2017 to all the country’s LAR actions, health regions, health oversight and user organisations asking that the controllers of the service provide a precautionary principle in line with the recommendations of the consensus panel until a revised guideline is available. This is already the case, from 21 December until the new guidelines are in place. So I understand that the directorate has taken the consensus report very seriously and in a fast manner followed up this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e950	Then your case no. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e966	The Public Health Institute has estimated that between 30 and 50 pst. the population will suffer psychologically during life, and to an extent that requires qualified help. The World Health Organisation expects that mental disorders will be among the most important causes of disease stress in Western countries in 2020. The social costs of mental illness in Norway, according to the Institute for Public Health, are between 60 billion. kr and 70 brd. kr every year. The Roadmap for Mental Health from 1999 to 2008 ensured a higher priority for mental health, and the background to the Roadmap was the characterisation of the supply to people with mental disorders as a service with disabilities at all stages and a strong need to strengthen mental health protection and mental health work in municipalities. A requirement for the health care system to be able to provide early prevention, prevent the development of serious disorders and provide proper treatment is that people with disorders and mental disorders are caught up and, if necessary, properly diagnosed. A study from the Swedish Institute of Public Health from December 2017 revealed that two thirds of those who suffered from depression, 80 pst. of those with anxiety and over 90 pst. people with alcohol abuse are not diagnosed. It's very high numbers. 40 pst. Of those with alcohol problems, doctors had been able to talk about mental problems or mental symptoms, but in most cases the abuse was not caught. But even for those patients who are caught by the community health service, it is difficult to get the necessary evaluation and treatment in the specialist services if the doctor thinks it is necessary. The number from the Health Directorate simply shows that up to 30 pst. the referrals to care for adult mental health are rejected. There is twice as much risk of being rejected in mental health protection for an adult as it is for a patient who is referred to an orthopaedic examination. In mental health protection, patients are usually rejected without being examined at all. The differences in the proportion of rejected patients vary in different parts of the country before mental health protection, but speech is serious and reveals in my view that Norwegian healthcare actually discriminates against patients on the basis of diagnosis, and that is not how we can do it. In the debate on mental health, we can sometimes get the impression that too many people have too low a threshold to define common problems such as mental illness, and then get treatment for them. But these numbers from the Institute of Public Health actually point to the opposite, so our picture might be wrong. According to a researcher at the Swedish Institute of Public Health, Fartein Ask Torvik, there are too few people who seek health care and get help for their plagues when it comes to mental disorders, and the study he suffered showed that most people with mental disorders were not treated — and he had looked at anxiety, depression and alcohol abuse. Especially serious is the number for patients with alcohol abuse, I thought. That's just 3 pst. of those who had an alcohol abuse were caught in the primary care services and 7 pst. in the specialist services, are unlikely to be small numbers when there are as many as nine out of ten who are either not receiving help or who are not caught contacting a doctor and have an alcohol abuse. As I said, 40 pst. Of those who had an abuse, were with a doctor, but were not caught. Now it is not that it is a point in itself to have a diagnosis in the health care system, or that one can diagnose common plagues and suffering, but the investigation suggests that these are patients who because of this do not receive the necessary treatment, because disease and drug dependence are not detected. They do not get the diagnosis they should have, despite having visited the healthcare service. There are indications that the questioning of alcohol problems and alcohol abuse is still taboo, both in the population and in health services. But without a question, it won't be uncovered either. Maybe it's just the people with the most serious suffering we see who are being caught and who are being offered in our health care system. In the previous year’s Medisin, there was an article that said that today there is a great deal of disunity among professionals as to whether patients in mental health protection are entitled to treatment in the specialist services or not. In only 4 out of 23 cases, psychologists were quite certain that the patient would be entitled to treatment. It was an investigation from Lovisenberg and by researcher Per Arne Holman who showed that the ligaments also disagreed with the priorities of the many assignments. In 22 out of 23 referrals, lying was the legal deadline for the patient to receive help, and the deadline ranged on average by 9 weeks per referral and up to 24 weeks. The study showed a prioritisation practice in mental health protection that is relatively arbitrary, and this is an indication that patients are not guaranteed equivalent access to treatment in the specialist care services in the case of mental illness. This researcher conducted the same study in 2009 and 2011, and the results now indicate that the practice is not better — it may even have been worse, despite the fact that the patient rights law was amended in 2015 to provide patients with better justice. It was then legal that the time taken for patients to assess whether their medical condition gives entitlement to treatment should be reduced from 30 to 10 days. There are also many factors that point out that patients with disorders and/or mental disorders do not have the same patient rights as patients with other diagnoses. Patients with alcohol abuse, anxiety and depression are not caught by the community health service and are not diagnosed. Patients referred to for the assessment of mental health protection are often rejected without evaluation. In addition, patients with psychiatric disorders assessed are judged to be very different with regard to patient rights. Finally, Professor Dag Album at the Institute of Sociology and Sociology at the University of Oslo, together with other researchers, has been researching how the health care system in Norway ranks diseases since 1991. It's interesting – and it's a bit depressing to read – because the research shows what we know: that diseases like brain tumor, heart attack and blood cancer have a high record among health professionals, while mental disorders, shrugs and fibromyalgia are ranked very low. Then it is that serious diseases with obvious symptoms are ranked high, but also the diseases that we can treat quickly and dramatically, perhaps. And when the diseases occur in an organ high up in the body, they will have higher medical performance. Some changes have been made in this field since the first 28 years of research, and the changes in the degree of performance of one disease have been changed by, for example, treatment. in the case of stroke. It may be difficult questions I ask the Council of State, but this is a very worrying situation for me: What can the Council of State and the health authorities do to prevent patients in the Norwegian healthcare system from being discriminated against by diagnosis? What can government agencies and health authorities do to raise the status of patients with physical and mental disorders? And what can governments and health authorities do to make alcohol abuse less taboo in the services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e989	The study from the Institute of Public Health shows that a minority of those with anxiety, depression and alcohol problems are seeking health care for help. And those who do, don't always get the help they need. The study used health records containing data from general practitioners and specialist health services. This means that someone gets help without being caught in this study, for example. in low-threshold municipal services. It does not say anything about the need for treatment, but I still believe that several of those who do not receive treatment will benefit from such help. The representative also addresses the high number of rejections in mental health protection. Psychiatric health is one of the main areas of government activity. It is also fixed in the new government platform. The aid threshold shall be low and shall be easily accessible in the community environment. Therefore, efforts must be made at the earliest opportunity for those who face mental health challenges. Lack of transparency about mental health challenges means that many people who experience mental and drug problems are reluctant to seek help. Through the government’s strategy for good mental health, we will work for more transparency on mental health challenges and work against prejudices in the population and in the services. Good help also needs to be made more accessible. Work on developing local lowthreshold services needs to continue and will help lower the barriers to seeking help. Health and school health services, the recruitment of psychologists in municipalities, the provision of rapid mental health care and Internet-related treatment services should be further developed. We introduce lifelong learning and public health as one of three new multidisciplinary themes in school. I hope this can help raise awareness of mental health, reduce stigma and make more people seek help. I believe that there is too little systemicity and totality in the investigation, treatment and follow-up in the mental health and drug fields. The challenges and needs of each patient must be identified in order to provide the patient with the necessary and appropriate assistance. This is clarified in the circular on health care at lowthreshold services that arrived last year. An important response in the fields of mental health and drug use is the process of packaging. The aim is predictability, faster investigation and treatment, better cooperation and more user involvement. The first package sequences will be put into operation in 2018. The package trajectories for the investigation into mental health protection for adults and an equivalent for children and young people, and the package trajectory for investigation and treatment in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, contain recommendations for monitoring and shall contribute to a more systematic investigation. This, hopefully, will increase the investigative competence of healthcare professionals and be a good thing for all patients — including those outside the package. Diagnosis of alcohol abuse was the worst in the study of the Institute of Public Health. In the final phase, the Health Directorate is preparing professional advice for the permanent staff in response to people with alcohol problems. The advice covers both how to address the problem with the patient, how to monitor alcohol use and other drug use, and the possibility of follow-up and treatment from other healthcare services or the specialist healthcare service. We need better data on the prevalence of mental illness in Norway and on the number of people receiving treatment. The Public Health Institute has therefore been commissioned to carry out a population diagnostic survey in cooperation with the Nord-Trøndelag health survey, HUNT. This study will provide us with incidences of mental illness and a better basis for studying the extent of healthcare use, barriers to seeking help, risk factors and consequences of mental illness. In the light of these experiences from Nord-Trøndelag, we will assess whether a national diagnostic study is to be conducted across the country. It is not difficult to understand that it is a serious additional burden to be rejected when you have expectations of getting help from the specialist health service. As worrying as the extent of rejections is the wide variation in rejection between the district psychiatric centres. This suggests that the offer may differ around the country for people with the same disorders. It is therefore a clear objective to reduce both the scope and the variation of rejection rates. In this year's hospital talk, I underlined that we want to look at the wide variation between the district psychiatric centers in terms of rejections. I showed that Nordfjord Psychiatricians and Lovisenberg Hospital in Oslo have tried out arrangements, so that few patients – or none – are rejected. Patients face an experienced treatment early in the course of their life to find out what kind of services they need. The experience is that patients feel and take seriously, and more people get an offer that is right for them – either in the municipality or in the specialist healthcare service. I will challenge the rest of mental health protection to put in place either equally good measures or better measures. The National Audit Office’s study of the authorities’ work to ensure good referral practices from the permanent practitioner to the specialist healthcare service has provided us with important knowledge. It appears that a majority of decision-makers and hospital doctors in mental health protection believe that patients with mental health disorders should receive treatment to a greater extent than at present in other parts of primary health care. Half of the prescribers report that they could have treated more patients with mental illness if they had received adequate training and guidance from specialist health services. This means that there is good reason to improve the ability of municipal health and care services to treat this patient group. The Directorate-General for Health has developed a separate referral guide for the permanent staff. It varies to what extent the supervisors use the supervisor. I would therefore like to stress to the Health Directorate and to the Health Regions that they are continuing their work to make known to the supervisor and that it is being used. It is also important for municipalities to ensure that the local authority has sufficient knowledge of the provision of municipal services, as well as the provision of specialist health services. Municipalities and health enterprises are obliged to conclude cooperation agreements which clarify the tasks to be performed at the level and distribution of responsibilities. I would also like to assess whether there is a need to look at whether local authorities and health companies are complying with the requirements for concluding cooperation agreements. The National Audit Office recommends that health firms and municipalities clarify which mental health conditions and drug-use conditions give entitlement to specialist health services. So let's think about this. The National Audit Office points out that it is appropriate to examine more closely how the services can provide training and provide better guidance. I will follow this up in dialogue with the KS and health regions. In the context of the new National Health and Hospital Plan, we will consider how the other recommendations of the National Audit Office can possibly be followed up. The measures I have mentioned are an important part of the response to how we will respond to the challenges related to the high number of rejections. In a new national health and hospital plan, mental health will be a key area. I will then return to Stortinget with information on how this work will be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1037	Thanks for the answer. I'm not dissenting in any of the things the Council of State said, so all of the measures outlined will certainly be in a better position among those out there who have a mental or a physical disorder. The question is how long this will take, and how fast a person can change, because I mean what I'm saying, when I say that there is discrimination against patients based on diagnosis such as the healthcare system today treats these patients. It is quite right that one should have measures both in the municipal health service and in hospitals. When it comes to what was said about the municipal health service – it is referred to the report of the Riksrevision – that one has to get better cooperation etc., I fully agree with that. It is also very interesting to see the debate on the fastmakers who have been present. This is also a matter of having a fixed medical service that works, because it's all there to be discovered, and it's there to be able to come and get the necessary follow-up and treatment and, if necessary, to be forwarded. I also think that you can do more in your municipality. It is not necessarily right that so many are referred to. But anyway, when a patient is referred to, the part that's being rejected is one of three, something that we can't be proud of. I record that the new national health and health plan should address mental health. I'm very happy about that. I have a proposal for a representative to report on mental health protection and share many of the thoughts of the Council of State that it is necessary to look at the whole of mental health protection. There are too many variations, including: in respect of what we have raised today: rejection How day-to-day capacity should be psychiatry of safety interaction with the community health service What the Council of State said about a national diagnostic-based patient survey is very interesting – that one is taking the initiative to get this mapped when we get so many studies that point out that this is a problem. It's good if you can do it. Can I get a comment on what I brought up last time in my post, that diseases in Norway have different status, and that it can also affect the health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1063	I take the last one first: yes, I am absolutely convinced of that. I also share the inter-pellant’s concern that some very clear professionals in the public debate are creating the impression that the main challenge in Norway today is that people are becoming ‘cycling herb’ with everyday problems that one has been dealing with on its own in previous times. I believe that is something that is involved in building up the barriers to seek help. The challenge in Norway today is not this. The challenge is that people with real mental health challenges are asking too little for help and that too many of those asking for help are not getting enough help. I think this report shows that. I fully agree with the inter-pellant. We are facing a great deal of work in this area, but there is also a lot going on that is now starting to produce results. Both the escalation plan for the drug field and the government, the cooperation party Christian People's Party and the former cooperation party Left's very clear commitment to mental health, health stations and school health services in the municipalities provide results. The municipalities reported that a total of 14,633 years' work on mental health and alcohol work in 2017, compared with 13,936 years' work in 2016 and 13,131 years' work in 2015. So there's been a growth of over 1,500 years in the last two years. The maximum percentage increase from 2016 to 2017 is seen in just services targeting children and young people, where there has been a growth of 7.9 pst. However, there has also been a significant annual growth in adult services, at 4.3 pst. The psychological competence of services has been strengthened. In the services targeted to adults, there has been an increase of 29 pst. from 2016 to 2017, and psychologists now make up 9.4 pst. of annual services for children and young people in municipalities. I say this because I fully agree that the decision-makers can do more, and that we need to strengthen the fixed medical system. However, the decision-makers have received many new colleagues in the non-statutory municipalities who are psychologists, who are people who have training and competence in mental health and drug treatment, and who should be part of their treatment team around these patients, not least a low-threshold service for children and young people, so that a person can get help quickly. There is also a need for municipalities to be more effective in informing their decision-makers about the offer that is now being built up in the municipalities, so that this reaches the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1074	I think everyone in this room has a wish that we should be even better to ensure full health care for people with mental disorders. That's a good starting point. However, at the same time — in order to raise the level of mental health problems in the future — one of the preconditions will be that the financial framework will also have to be put in place. For 2018, the government is adding to an activity increase for the specialist health service of about 2 pst., but it is thus before a demographic development that can add up to additional costs for hospitals of 1.5 pst. We have a specialist health service that was asked by the government to take part of the savings in connection with the ABE reform. At the same time, we need to meet our expectations about new treatments and availability of more effective but often expensive medicines. Then it may not be so strange that with the government's government budget for the current year, there is little left to bet on mental health. The working party acknowledges that we still have large, unresolved tasks in the specialist health service. It also applies in the field of mental health. That's why we have a total priority of three billion. kr more in our alternative state budget, including what the government has put in. Before Christmas, the Council of State was challenged by the golden rule, in which drugs and mental health care alone are to have an annual growth higher than that of somatic medicine. In its reply on 24 November, the Council of State clarifies that this is only an objective, not a requirement. It might also reflect the reality out there for many of those who work in the field. Trustees who work in the field of mental health and addiction at Oslo University Hospitals say they feel that the somatic population is growing significantly higher than their field gets. Before Christmas, therefore, they moved out with a concern that the quality of patient treatment could be impaired, and even thought that the safety of employees — those working in the hospital’s mental health and addiction — could be threatened, precisely because of the lack of financial resources. The title of their call for help was: «Crise in the Hospital for Mental Health and Addiction at Oslo University Hospital» – «Where are the promises of Höie?» The Council of State understands that reality is experienced this way for those who work in this field out there, and also sees that we need to strengthen the work in the field of mental illness further, through, among other things. What is the economic environment in line with the expectations and needs that have not yet been met?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1092	Psychiatric health is one of the most important areas of government activity. Good mental health is important for good quality of life and for mastering both everyday life and work. The help threshold must be low, and the help must be available in the immediate environment of the individual. Unfortunately, we see a signal among young people today that is quite alarming. We have never before seen a more duty-fulfilling, nuclear and ambitious generation of children and young people. Generation performance is often called. They smoke less, they drink less, they train more, they have better relations with their parents, and they also like better at school than their ancestors. At the same time, it is alarming to see how the youth generation struggles with mental distress and problems. When one in five girls in the 10th grade experiences significant stress-related and depressive symptoms, there is something we take seriously. The effort is required to be deployed as early as possible for those who are struggling with mental problems. Psychiatric disorders must be prevented, including: by preventing bullying and social isolation among young people, children and adults. Work and activity should be an integral part of the process and follow-up. The government will construct the obstacles to seek help. In 2018, the government will introduce package trajectories in mental health. A stepping-up plan shall be provided for the mental health of children and young people. In addition, I would like to point out that lifemesters are going into school. I think we have to realize that in order to live our whole lives – and have a good life in all the phases of life – one must also master life, and it must be learned. It will be important to strengthen interdisciplinary cooperation between services, as well as to recognise cooperation with voluntary and other private actors in order to facilitate a lack of supply, and to ensure that the threshold for requesting help at any time is low. We know that, unfortunately, mental disorders are also often associated with some form of intoxication. Diagnosis of alcohol abuse was most poorly reported in the study of the Institute of Public Health. I consider the work being done by the Health Directorate to draw up professional advice for the fasting population in response to people with alcohol problems, as an incredibly important measure. These advices cover both how to address the problem with the patient, how to monitor alcohol use and other drug use, and the possibility of follow-up and treatment from other health and care services, including the specialist services. This will be very important to ensure proper and good treatment. We need better data on the occurrence of mental illness in Norway and on how many are actually being treated. It is good that the Institute of Public Health has been commissioned to carry out a diagnostic population survey. This could provide us with a better basis for studying the extent of healthcare use, barriers to seeking help, risk factors and also consequences of mental illness. The main focus of both drugs and psychiatry must be to help the individual manage to change a dysfunctional lifestyle and to experience mastery and a real choice, where one can choose the life that a person wants to live. It must start with how one is met and seen at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1111	Let me first say that it should be a matter of course that people with a mental disorder should get the help they need when they need it. More and more people are struggling with the psyche, and too many are getting help too late, in many cases because they wait too long to seek help, and in other cases because the offer is too poor or the capacity is too low. It may be difficult to detect those who are mentally struggling, and therefore competence is a key word. Then it is also important that the auxiliaries are clear on the day you see those who need help, or when you finally seek help on your own initiative. Of many key policy areas, mental health is one of the top priorities of the government, because good mental health is important for a good quality of life and for mastering everyday life and work. The new government platform has decided that the reinforcement of the area should continue. For the Progress Party, it is important that the government also in practice follow up on what the government parties have agreed on. For many, mental problems begin at an early age. Then it is important that municipalities have taken responsibility by upgrading lowthreshold services such as school health and psychological competence. The government has already granted over time money that is intended to strengthen precisely these areas, and then it is a little provocative to get feedback that many municipalities have given different priority, despite the fact that they have major shortages in the supply of children and young people. The fact that the government has not chosen to earmark these funds does not mean that the municipalities can ignore building up and developing the offer. The Progress Party will follow developments in the municipalities in the future to see if it may be necessary to propose that the funds be earmarked to a greater extent than at present. The question of how to ensure full health care for people with mental illness is complex, and as the question is formulated, I am also uncertain whether anyone can at all give a full answer. But some of the keys are that we are able to lower the threshold to ask for help, that health professionals and doctors have better knowledge of detecting mental problems, that capacity is well developed, and that we are using the offers that are available, to ensure them, a wide and diverse offer. Then I expect that the interpellant is also behind the invitation to the municipalities to build up the offer in line with the government's signals, although the funds are not necessarily earmarked.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1128	Unfortunately, as the representative Toppe points out, there are status differences between different diseases in Norway — some diseases are associated with shame, taboos and stigmatisation — whether there are somatic diseases or there are somatic and mental illnesses. For example, there is a difference between how to meet different cancer patients and patients with hepatitis C. Of course, that's unfortunate, because we're going to have an equivalent healthcare service for everyone, regardless of the background. It is also worrying that there are so different practices between the different DPSs. It is therefore good that the Minister of Health should work both to reduce the extent of rejections in the DPS and to work for a more similar practice. We have a long way to go, but it seems that there is a great political will to go that way together, both at large and in government. We need to improve the ability of primary health services to prevent more than treatment in an expensive specialist healthcare service. We know that many of the mental disorders can be prevented very effectively if the help is given early. We also know enough about the consequences of a bad childhood to avoid it at all costs. We know that injured children often become ill adults. On the contrary, we know that a safe and good relationship in the child's first year of life can have a crucial role to play in good health for the rest of his life. The most important thing we can do is to avoid people becoming mentally ill, and then the key is a good childhood. This is achieved only by strengthening the areas outside health services where good health is produced, in families with many support measures for those who need it, access to nature and clean water, sports activities, cultural services, good kindergartens, SFOs and schools, etc. Then we have to provide school health services, health centres and a well-accessible family protection, effective child protection, the BUP, etc. The left therefore looks with excitement and great enthusiasm for the presentation of the economically obliging escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health in 2018. When we know that mental illness alone costs society more than 185 billion. kr annually, it says itself that we have a lot to pick up by preventing. Let's go back to the specialist health service. I mean the whole distinction between psyche and somatics is unfortunate, because very many diseases are linked and should be treated together. It is the whole human being to be treated – it can be easy to forget. We have an artificial separation today, which is a hindrance to good, holistic treatment. This distinction contributes to the transformation of patients’ life history into disease history and diagnosis. This may prevent the patient from getting well, because the help gets fragmented. But that debate is too big to take here and now. Unfortunately, I am not surprised that more people are being rejected if they need mental health protection than for example. for orthopaedic treatment. There is a discrimination in which correction must be targeted. It is good that the Minister of Health has taken action in this area. It is also good that mental health should be a key area of a new national health and hospital plan, for this will take time. I am pleased with the clear commitment to mental health and the intoxication of the previous government and also from the new government with which the Left is involved. It is good that the golden rule is established, and that the growth in mental health protection should be greater than in somatic matters. I think we need to put even more emphasis on this towards health businesses in the future. Psychiatric disease can be very difficult to treat and cause conditions are very complex. Some mentally ill people need lifelong treatment, others need less. Treatment needs to be adapted to the individual — it is more important for those who are suffering from mental illness than for most people in the somatic area. A broken arm is easy to treat, a broken childhood much harder. I would like to thank the interpellant for putting mental health on the agenda. More lowthreshold services and early interventions in municipalities will be essential for success. And maybe we'll be able to reduce the need to help in specialist health care if we're able to take serious steps to prevent more to treat less.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1147	The fact that the Institute of Public Health shows that two thirds of those who had depression, had neither diagnosis nor treatment, are really scary numbers. And the reason was either that they had not sought help, or that they were not caught up with the symptoms they had. I think there's still a lot of stigma outside and going for this patient group, which is not new at all. I want to be a little personal, please. I grew up with a mother who was mentally ill. She had birth depression after I was born. My mother didn't get much help, she was never treated until we grew up, and it wasn't until we three kids grew up that we understood that mom was really pretty sick. So the sick person is not alone, but there are many around the sick person who are also in a risk group, because mother, father or one of the kids are not discovered. It's important that the mentally ill get help, because there's so many around who think about theirs, are busy with theirs and can actually go and get sick themselves, because their own don't get help. The same thing I think applies to those who are struggling with alcohol. This is both about prevention and about getting in and treating and discovering early — drying to ask the questions, caring, looking behind the façade. When so many don't get caught up, it's a warning to all of us – as good neighbors, as friends, and as treating institutions. It's not many weeks since I met a young woman who said, "There was nothing caught up with us at home." We had a nice house, we had the right car outside, the father managed to go to the job he was going to go to. But on the inside, Olug, it wasn't like that, there wasn't much that didn't show that Dad had an alcohol problem. That's why this is about discovering early, getting in and treating early, and about so much more. It's important that it is, the patient who has it hurt and is sick, is believed and discovered by the health care system. It is also incredibly important for relatives, it is important for the working life. It's important for everyone that we get there that we manage to raise this issue. When two thirds go around and they don't discover or get the help they want, it's no wonder that the numbers are increasing, because then there are as many others around that get a challenge as well. That's why this is about the state's raising within the healthcare system, but it's also about making everyday life around families, which makes us able to care, both about the mentally ill and about the one who has a drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1160	Thank you to those who have spoken in this debate. I have some comments. I haven't focused so much on the economy in this interview, but I'm of course in agreement with those who have mentioned that the economy is also important. I've also criticized the golden rule for not working. We have also had more money for hospitals in our alternative budget, and we have put forward a proposal for a stepping-up plan for mental health in the municipalities, with ear-marked funds. What's my point with this interpellation is that here's more than the economy that makes things go wrong. This is also about a practice and a culture out in the services that makes it so that you don't take people with mental problems or with alcohol abuse in the same seriousness as if a patient breaks a foot. And that's what's the hard question for a government council and for health authorities to answer, but it's incredibly important that this gets noticed. I mean, it's a discrimination against patients after diagnosis that we can't recognize, in the Norwegian health care system. We have a goal that we're going to have a health care system for everyone, but it turns out it's actually not true. We need to change the culture in the services. Of course, when one comes to the doctor and one is unable to detect alcohol abuse, a few things can be improved, but it is still the case that one has to go in and look at how one works, and what kind of work a user does, and perhaps get rid of taboo things that are difficult to talk about. Otherwise, we don't do the patient right. When one of the three with a mental illness referred to in the hospital is rejected without one being paid out, there is no excuse no matter how bad the budget is, I would say. There's no excuse, because there's no excuse for the same thing if the patient has another illness. So we can't tolerate it. The fact that diseases have different status and are surveyed by them also shows that there is something behind them. It is difficult to decide from here that it should not be so, but at least it is our responsibility to contribute to a different development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1174	I would like to thank you for a good and important interpellation discussion on a topic that is very crucial. There are many challenges we are facing, so I'm going to try to end up with a slightly more optimistic picture, namely that in the big news of public health policy, we have agreed that mental health should now be lifted and equivalent to the physical health of all public health work. It is clear that many of the measures we take in other sectors, ranging from getting lifelong learning as a multidisciplinary theme in school to focusing on quality in kindergarten and in school, have a major impact on mental health. And the fact that one in more and more arenas now speaks openly about mental health, and that we all have both a mental and a physical health, hopefully will contribute to both building down the barrier of seeking help and also building up the offer and changing attitudes in health care. Then it's so great in this area that it's not that the treatment is expensive, extensive and has varying results. No, on the contrary, here it is very often talking about relatively cheap, short-term and effective treatment, which very often also provides good results. It is also an important message to be given to the population. You can sometimes get the impression that if you have a drug addiction or have a mental health challenge, it's something that you should live with for the rest of your life, and that your help doesn't help. No, here's a lot of good help to get. What is important is that this help comes as quickly as possible, and not least that one is able to catch up with children and young people early. In the case of mental health challenges, the vast majority of those who face a mental health challenge through life will be given the first time in childhood and youth. If one gets the right help fast, it can be very important for the rest of your life. – It was an attempt to have a slightly more optimistic conclusion to a very important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1187	The debate on substance is closed. Then 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1203	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates by up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1212	Today we are considering a proposal from the Left to investigate the establishment of a Norwegian global entrepreneurship programme. To start with the conclusion: the majority of the Business Committee, all except the Left, propose that this proposal not be adopted. The same majority support the intentions of the proposal, but are of the opinion that investigations are already underway or are at the planning stage that will address the intentions of the proposers. So it'll probably come in the future in this field. In today’s instrumentation, various schemes are intended to contribute to a good entrepreneurship programme. Invest in Norway was established to facilitate foreign direct investment in Norway. The function of Innovation Norway shall ensure that enquiries by foreign actors wishing to establish their business in Norway are handled in a professional manner. Invest in Norway is a coordinating instrument, which facilitates dialogue between international companies that consider establishing their business in Norway and Norwegian authorities and instrument operators. Furthermore, Innovation Norway provides consultancy and expertise services to help businesses succeed in their creation and growth and promotes meeting places for start-ups and potential investors. Innovation Norway’s instruments are available to foreign enterprises if they establish activities in Norway. Invest in Norway is boosted by 10 million. kr in 2018. This is precisely to strengthen efforts to facilitate foreign investment in Norway and position Norway as an attractive country for investors and talents. Furthermore, I would also like to refer to the government’s submitted export and internationalisation strategy, Verde as a market, where assessments of how Norway can be better attracted to foreign investment and competence are announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1225	After having received good assurance that this will be followed up, the Left chooses to withdraw the proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1230	The representative, André N. Skjelstad, has withdrawn the proposal from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1235	Once the proposal has been drawn, one could in and of course not say anything. But then it's the first time I get the floor as Minister of Industry, so I felt like I had to say something anyway. As one of the committee members has already stated, there is a broad consensus within the Committee on what is meant by this, namely that Norway should be an attractive country for foreign talent, establishment and investment. It is important both to increase the number of jobs in Norway and to ensure a sustainable welfare society for the future. So the representatives propose to look to the United Kingdom. I also think it's a good idea that we take lessons from what the other country is doing, and look at what works, and maybe it doesn't work. It has already been referred to the strategy put forward by the government in 2017, Verda as a market, and Invest in Norway, which is reinforced by 10 million. kr, adopted by Stortinget. This means that Invest in Norway can provide assistance to several foreign companies that assess, or have decided to locate their business in Norway. At the same time, the government has decided to do an investigation work in 2018 to see how Norway can become better at attracting foreign investment and skills. Innovation Norway is the leader of this work, in dialogue with the Ministry. The aim is, of course, to look at how the Invest in Norway function can be further developed, so that we succeed in attracting good companies and investments from abroad. Then this kind of proposal, even though it's now drawn, is important to get the debate up, to be able to solve what we're all concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1244	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President would just say that in case No. 6 it's not taking up any suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1262	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1271	The car support scheme is intended to compensate for specific costs of improving the working capacity and functioning of daily life for members of the public health system who have a disease, injury or hearing. In 2015, changes were made to the scheme, including: because many people who needed to carry wheelchairs in the car did not meet the conditions for car social security. Therefore, the scheme was extended to persons in need of a cashier’s car, while the grant to ordinary passenger cars was limited to persons in need of a car to get from or to work or training. This means that support is provided for special adaptations and, where necessary, for vans, but no longer for those in need of an ordinary car. Any changes and adjustments to your own passenger car may still be covered as a result of disability. Having a car today is considered so common that it is not defined as an aid in itself, or as an additional cost as a result of disability. Thus, you will no longer receive support for an ordinary passenger car if you do not have extra costs for a car compared to others. The exception is that those who need a car to get to work or education still receive support. Support is still given to people who are not at work at the time of application, but where the benefit to a car or the conversion of a car makes it likely that they can get into paid employment. The aim of the changes was to ensure a more targeted car support system. Those in need of a larger and more organized car have got an extended and better order, while those in need only of an ordinary car have to cover it in the same way as others. The scheme is intended to cover the additional costs incurred as a result of disability, and therefore there is currently no support for those who need an ordinary passenger car without adjustments. The majority of the Committee at the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have made a proposal to reintroduce subsidies to cars for people who need cars in Group 1 in order to break an isolated life and improve their daily life functions. Right, Progress Party and Left's vision is a society where everyone can participate – in work, education or activity. For this reason, the government will provide better opportunities for people with disabilities in working life through, among other things. to strengthen the provision of permanent work, improve access to facilities for disabled persons, and to target a 5 pst. new employees in the country must be persons with disabilities or holes in the CV, to give some examples. The government's ambitions are clear. However, the minority of the Committee considers that it makes sense to target schemes in such a way that they function after the intention, and therefore does not support the reversal of the change made in 2015. The minority of the Committee considers that the intention of the proposal can be achieved through the organised transport system. The new government platform is considered to extend the national TT regime and it is a pity that these arrangements are not seen in the context. The government says in the Jeløya platform that it should be committed to permanent work, and the Right is therefore in favour of building a good framework around this. It supports the government's inclusion policy. Consequently, the Right Party and the Progressive Party will vote against the reversal of the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1296	Today we are discussing a matter that is very important to those concerned. It's about the possibility of participating in society, in activities and in work, and it's about whether we're going to target ourselves to developing an equal and inclusive society. We saw in 2015 that the government introduced changes to this scheme that for those who lost a valuable offer have led to increased isolation, impaired the ability to participate in society, and also, I think, weakened the opportunity to get out of work. It was petty cuts, because this is small sums in the big picture, but very important for those who are being hit, and it was probably an example that the government, in its eagerness to find money that finances tax cuts, weakens those who today have bigger challenges than the majority. We warned against the cut, and we proposed to increase the budget for 2015 by 65 million. kr, so that both the Group 1 car scheme and the Group 2 scheme, to which we belong, could be implemented. I hear a lot of fine words and phrases from the government parties about an inclusive society and that we're going to contribute to increased equality. Now we actually have the opportunity to do something about it, but that chance doesn't grip the government. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister just a few hours ago stood on this pulpit and spoke warmly about inclusion, the government parties are now voting down proposals that would contribute in that direction. It shows that there is a long way between the fine words and the political reality. I have reason to believe that later in the debate there will be a loose proposal in the case from the Christian People's Party. I would like to signal that, in that case, the Labour Party will join that proposal subsidiaryly. We want to make sure that the system is expanded for everyone, but as a step in the right direction, we will contribute to the majority of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. I hope there will be a majority in the Grand Chamber for that proposal, which will show that there is a new majority in the Grand Duchy, which shows a different and more inclusive direction than the government adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1309	It is a fact that everyone is talking positively about inclusion. The inclusion costs, and this case is a good example of it. As a change of legislation for type 1 cars in the State budget for 2015, it was a unilateral measure by the government to reduce the cost of the State budget. The case concerns approximately 50 million. kr. The centre party went against the change at the time, but failed to agree to it, and is pleased that SV has promoted this again as a Document 8 proposal. By following SV's suggestions, we can break the isolated life of the many people who will come in such a situation if they do not have access to a car. Without a car, many people lose the opportunity to live a seagoing life. There are many disabled people who do not have the opportunity to have hard work. There are many people with disabilities who have temporary jobs, which is becoming more and more common today. These are groups that fall outside the scope of current legislation, which are linked to onerous work. That is why we are pleased with the document from SV. We are within the majority of the comments, and the proposal presented by the Christian People's Party, «The Grand Government is asking the Government of the State Budget 2019 to propose the reintroduction of the car support scheme for people in permanent work», is a proposal the Centre Party will certainly support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1320	It's obvious that all parties are talking in different ways about having an inclusive society. The Christian People's Party likes to talk especially about a warm and inclusive society. The car support system that was also spelled out people who couldn't be in work or education because of their health status. The car support system today only applies to people who can be in work or in permanent work or education. The system will not apply to those persons who cannot be in unpaid work in the ordinary business, as I have understood it by the Christian People's Party's loose proposal. This makes me unbelievably disappointed by the Christian People's Party, which always talks about having a warm and inclusive society. Now the Christian People's Party ensures that we will have an additional freezing of those who cannot participate in the work. Nor is it clarified whether people who are not in permanent work, but in permanent work in ordinary business, will be included in their order. I will ask the Christian People's Party to deepen this in connection with its loose proposal. I would also like to report that SV supports the subsidiary Christian People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1329	The left, of course, is in agreement with the proposers that the car support system is important in order to secure a smooth society, where people with disabilities can also participate in society in the same way as others. Access to cars is too crucial — we know that — not least in areas where collective services are poorly developed. The idea behind the conversion in 2015 was good. Better targeting of car support schemes would ensure that people who could not use a normal car but who needed a larger and more organized car would have a better system. The scheme was better than before for those who could not use a normal car for work or training. It is clear that when society demands participation in education or work, we must also facilitate their practical participation. There are, therefore, good reasons for distinguishing between situations where a car needs education and work, and where a car needs other purposes. At the same time, I and the Left understand that there are also very good reasons for a better support system. Participation in society is about more than work and education. If you want to look at the support scheme, you have to do it in a whole budget, not as part of a proposal for a representative. Although the Left supports the intentions set out in the proposal, for that reason the Left will vote against the plural recommendation of the Committee. The same is true of the loose proposal put forward by the Christian People's Party today. The Christian People's Party is also one of the parties behind the budget. Treating things in the 10-million-dollar class – we really don't know what it costs – piece by piece and piece without looking at them in a holistic context, even though the purpose and intention are never that good, I really believe that all the parties in the hall are agreed that this can't be serious budgeting with the community's funds. The left therefore sees itself bound to contradict the loose proposal, and rather encourages the Christian People's Party to come back to it when we sit down and e.g. negotiated a revised national budget already at the end of May or early in June now in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1340	The proposal we have to deal with from the Socialist Left is about an important matter for the individual, but it is also about ensuring that we have to guarantee justice in the welfare system, and we have to make sure that the welfare goods come to those who need it most. It is, in principle, easy to sympathise with a proposal to help people with disabilities with car support, even if they do not have gainful employment or are in training. Because I think at least most people in this room agree that the car is a necessity for most people, young people, elderly people, people with disabilities – yes, most people depend on the car for work, education or other tasks in everyday life. The starting point is that most people have to pay for their own car, but we have to have an important and good system that ensures that those who have additional costs due to a disability can cover this on application, so that they do not have extra costs. But in terms of the ordinary costs of a car, there should be equality for everyone, so that we don't discriminate, and so that we can spend the money on what was the intention of the arrangement. Because if, as a result of a permanent disability, you need an ordinary car that is no more expensive than an ordinary car, then the whole intention – and the strengthening of the car support system and the adjustments you made to target it even better – is not followed up. On the basis of that, of course, we go against the setting. The Progress Party will also be loyal to the budgetary decisions and budgetary settlements we have made, and will therefore also vote against the Christian People's Party's announced solution, as I think it is better to look at issues that have a budgetary character, like the Left, instead of taking them piece by piece and split.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1351	The car support scheme is an important scheme. It ensures that those who, because of a permanent disability, are unable to use public means of transport for work or education other than secondary school can receive a lump sum to purchase a car on their own. This is called group 1 cars. Wheelchair users in need of a van with a lift and ramp may be entitled to car assistance and to meet transport needs in their daily lives. Such a car is ordered by Nav, and it's called Group 2 cars. Whatever the type of car it is necessary to receive support that the transport demand cannot be met in any other way than by social assistance to the car. The grant was amended in the 2015 state budget. The scheme was extended for persons in need of an adapted car, Group 2, while the grant to ordinary passenger cars, Group 1, was limited to persons in need of a car to get to and from work or training. The Christian People's Party supported the changes made in the 2015 budget. However, we have come to the conclusion that persons participating in permanent work, VTA, should be included in the car support system for Group 1 cars, in line with those in paid employment, in order to facilitate increased participation in permanent work. The Christian People's Party wants better inclusion in working life, not least by strengthening the VTA system. We noticed with interest that the Prime Minister in the government statement earlier today specifically mentioned the efforts the new government will make to get more people into the world of work, who are struggling to get in. Then permanent work is very important. It was said here by the representative of Arild Grande that there is a new majority in the Chamber. The Christian People's Party is a constructive opposition party that addresses both sides of this room, and we had hoped that the government could now see opportunities to intervene with the car support system, which is just ensuring that people who need permanent work get a better situation. I would like to stress that in our proposal we do not propose an allocation in 2018. The Christian People's Party is bound by our budgetary settlement with the government. Our proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget in 2019 to submit proposals to reintroduce the car support scheme for type 1 cars for persons in permanent work.’; When, among others: Terje Breivik says that this is not good planning, that this has to be seen in budgetary terms, that is exactly what is in our proposal. We ask the government to address this and to make a proposal in the context of the preparation of the 2019 government budget. And it will be entirely in line with the intentions of the government itself today in getting more people into permanent work. With that, I'll take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1371	The representative Steinar Reiten has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1377	Participation in work, education and daily life is central to all people's lives, including those with disabilities. If we are to get to this, undoubtedly good transport systems are absolutely central. Good transport arrangements can be both car benefits, as we are discussing today, and other forms of social assistance, but they are also good, accessible collective solutions that are designed to enable disabled people to make use of them in the same way as all other citizens. In the city we now live in, this has been the goal of the city council of which I myself was part for many years – to make public transport available to disabled people and others, just as to the inhabitants. We have relatively good transport systems today, where car hire is one of several possible measures. For persons who have a special need for a transport solution to and from an activity, there may often be an equal solution to a transport system other than their own car, such as TT transport, basic assistance for transport or work and training travel for persons in work or in training. The car welfare system has been highly debated in recent years. It has a natural explanation that car support is an important measure to enable disabled people to participate in society in the same way as others. In particular, the availability of an organised car is important in order to ensure participation in work and not least in education. As you know, the criteria for entitlement to car benefits were changed in 2015. The social benefits for those with the greatest needs, Group 2, were strengthened, while the scheme for those with the need for an ordinary car in daily life, Group 1, was reduced. This was done to better target the benefit to those who needed it the most. More than in the past of those who needed an organized car, came into group 2. The purpose of social benefits under the National Social Security Act Chapter 10 is to compensate for the additional costs incurred by persons with disabilities compared to people with no disabilities. This applies to all measures. If you need a normal car, you do not necessarily have an extra cost compared to others. Aid to purchase an ordinary car is thus not considered an aid in the sense of the law. The conditions for entitlement to the benefit of a car are strict. A central part of the assessment is whether the applicant can obtain his/her need for transport aid other than in the case of social assistance to the car. That's the way it was before 2015. So there's no tightening up on this from this government. As mentioned above, there are several other solutions that may be relevant, including: public social security schemes such as TT transport, work and training trips and basic social assistance for transport. I believe it is important to maintain it by providing compensation for aid – also for car benefits – on the grounds that it compensates for certain additional costs incurred as a result of a permanent illness, injury or hearing, as is apparent from the purpose of Section 10-1. What is always eligible for benefits will change over time. I believe it is important that we give priority to the group with the greatest needs, while supporting the possibility of getting in and in ordinary work. Finally, I would like to emphasise that support for the extra costs associated with the need to adapt the car is still provided, if this is necessary additional costs to compensate for disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1405	The Council of State confirms in its statement – and states it very clearly – that it is important to have a car in order to be able to participate in the labour market. That was also one of the reasons why the scheme was extended, as we supported. It must either mean that the government does not think it is important to have a car in order to be able to participate in society — it is in that case not to address the challenges it poses for many to participate in social settings and in society, especially in District Norway, where it is not equivalent to an available collective offer in cities — or that the government has not given priority to this group. Can the Council of State tell the Storting that this is not a matter of believing that there is a need for this group in terms of social participation, or is it simply a matter of government not giving priority to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1412	I react a little to the way the representative Grande attaches to me and the government positions we do not have. As I said in my post, we're concerned that disabled people too should be able to get to work or school, and that they should be able to participate in society in line with other people. There are a number of schemes to meet this need today. We have the car welfare system, which is divided into Group 1 and Group 2, where we made a change that focused one system on those who are at work or under education, while we extended the other system, so that several of those who need more adapted cars came in. There are also other schemes that are important to be able to participate in everyday life. We have the TT system, which is sometimes county and elsewhere national. The platform says we're going to review the National TT scheme to see if we can make improvements. There is basic support for transport, there is support for work and education travel, and there is other. It is also important that counties and municipalities ensure that public transport is accessible to all citizens, including those with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1423	I hear a lot of fine words from the government about the desire for inclusion, but in reality we don't see anything of that will. This change has resulted in considerable additional costs for those affected by it. It unfortunately does not take the government over, and I hope that the Storting today can at least take a first step in the right direction. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether or not the Council of State wants to take a closer look at this scheme. It has now been confirmed by many teams that this hits very hard. Now Stortinget takes the first steps, if the proposal of the Christian People's Party is adopted, but we want to move on, as the majority of the committee points to in the vote. Does the Council intend to make proposals that will improve support schemes for those we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1432	As I said in my previous answer, the government in its platform has said that we should look at, among other things. The TT system, so we're going to go through it anyway. It is also expected that the Storting should make a decision today, with which we will of course also return to Stortinget. The government has been concerned with a number of measures to include more disabled people, including: in working life. Among other things, we have improved working life assistance scheme. We have improved the organisation guarantee for people with disabilities in the workplace. We have established a system of service dogs to make disabled people more self-employed in everyday life. We have also gone through the aid policy, an area that we are going to discuss later today. So we're busy making society more accessible to disabled people. There are also a number of different systems that are concerned with transport, which, of course, we should look at, as we say in our government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1443	I hear nothing about what the council has intended to do to those who experienced the cut in 2015. There are a number of other aspects that need to be looked at, where you don't give a clear signal, but you have to consider. The same thing happened to Stortinget when we discussed the care allowance scheme, where the government used the rhetoric that for someone to get a better offer, those who are the weakest must be involved and fund it. The government is not willing to take that responsibility, and it was only when the Storting forced it through that, that the government had to reconsider it. Does the government intend to make any proposals that will correct the unsocial cuts that occurred in group 1 cars, or does this group have to assume that there will be no change until a new number of large sizes are put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1448	I must say that I react quite strongly. To take the care scheme: we're expanding the scheme for an estimated 9 000 children, with half a billion dollars. The representative Grande is the manager of an old scheme that excluded very many sick people in families, and there is no doubt that this government has made significant, significant and important improvements in that scheme. We will continue to ensure better welfare arrangements for those who need it. Sometimes it also means making changes to welfare systems in order to target them even better to those with the greatest needs. When you introduced the car support scheme in 2015, it was precisely because you wanted to meet those who have the most needs, even better than what was in the old system that the previous government administered. I am open to, interested in, and, of course, I am going to work with continuous improvements in legislation, including the car support system, but what changes to make, if any, is also a budgetary issue. In that case, we have to get back to that. I will follow up concretely what is being adopted here today, but the government will of course also improve other arrangements, as we say in our platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1453	I am pleased with what the Council of State now says about the TT scheme. It will mean that the government will be positive about developing it further, so that one can get a national system, and nothing will be better than that for the ones involved. But that's not the groups we're talking about right now. We're talking about groups who have the ability and the ability to have their own car. The council says you have to look at collective solutions. Yes, just as disabled people choose what is the most appropriate solution, so do functional health. It's the disabled who depend on their own car that we're talking about. The Council of State says that one of the governments wants to target the benefit better. This led to a deterioration in the conditions for those in Group 1. Was there any other argument to target it than to save money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1458	The aim was to improve the system and to take care of those who were going to work and education, work and activity. So you also wanted to include more in the Group 2 scheme. As I said in the reply to the previous representative, there are today a number of different schemes to meet the transport needs of disabled people. Car support is one tool, where support can be given to those who need it and where additional costs are compensated for by a disabled person, compared to one who is not disabled, but there are also a number of other schemes to meet the transport needs of disabled persons. We're going to look at the national TT scheme. We clearly say that on the platform, and it's under another department. We are concerned that we should have good means of transport for people with disabilities, and then there may be different needs for people with disabilities, and it may be different what to cover from the state side of the expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1463	It was a broad majority that went in to make it better for the group 2 cars. We agree on that. What the Council of State is now giving the impression is that you can save money on the Group 1 cars, and that the people who used to come under the Group 1 cars can get a better arrangement under the TT system. I am very doubtful that we are talking here about the same group, and in my experience, the TT system is, if it gives a reasonable freedom, an expensive system, and it will always be a qualitatively worse system because one has to order in each case. My central question is, was it really the economics behind the government going for the change in 2015, where one could save 50 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Is that what's at the core, to say it directly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1469	Now this is a system that was implemented long before my time. That's right, as the representative says, you saved 50 million. kr on it, but what is involved in this scheme and in all other schemes, is to be able to better target the schemes. From time to time, you have to change the arrangements as time changes. The resource area is an area that has undergone major changes. We've been busy caring for those who are going to work and education, even better. Several of the schemes have been adapted to that. The car support system is one thing. Grants for work and education trips are different. Then there are important arrangements in the county councils, for example: The TT system, which is designed to respond to the more everyday needs. In the municipality that we are now in, which I myself have been in charge, we have a very good TT arrangement. There you can get TT support for transport to VTA work. The county council is free to improve its arrangements, but we're going to look at the state now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1481	It is likely that the solution proposed by the Christian People's Party in the matter will have a majority today. Of course, we are happy to receive that support. The representative Solfrid Lerbreck says she is disappointed that the Christian People's Party does not deliver on a warmer society. The representative Lerbreuk himself does not know that. As late as the fall, the Christian People's Party and the Swedish National Party were together to find good solutions to questions about care, day care and teaching standards in school – all good measures that will just ensure a warmer society. We in the Christian People's Party have a real hope that in this matter, with our proposal, we can actually get a unanimous greatness. Our proposal is meant like this. We record that the government is now investing in getting more people to work as a bet area. We're not challenging the government in terms of the budget agreement, we're pointing to opportunities to put this into the 2019 government budget. We believe it would be a fine gesture on the day the government presents its declaration of accession, to be able to vote in favour of this, so that there is an overall increase that will ensure that people in permanent work who need a car can once again be given the opportunity to receive support. This will be entirely in line with the signals sent today by the government itself and the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1492	The car support scheme is a matter of engagement, for there is no doubt that car support is an important measure for disabled people in order to be able to participate in society in the same way as everyone else. At the same time, priority must be given to what is to be compensated and to whom. The right believes that it is important to maintain it by providing social benefits for aids, including car benefits, on the grounds that it compensates for certain additional costs incurred as a result of a permanent illness, injury or hearing, as is also apparent from the intended purpose of Section 10-1. It is important that we give priority to the group with the greatest needs, while also supporting the possibility of getting in and in ordinary work. Current legislation supports this scheme. The aim of the changes that were made was to ensure a more targeted car support system, and the scheme is intended to cover additional costs incurred as a result of disability. Therefore, no support is currently provided for those who need an ordinary passenger car without adjustments. We still don't think that's the task of the state. Unlike SV, the Right believes that the state cannot be all for everyone, but it must be much for those who need it the most. Then we must also be clear and dry to give priority. It's about sustainable well-being. It's about the future. The minority of the Committee therefore considers it reasonable to target schemes in such a way that they work after the intention, and we will therefore not support the reversal of the change made in 2015. The right will not support the Christian People's Party's loose proposals in the matter either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1517	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1526	Early distributions have clearly shown the need for improvements and opportunities for improvement of the facility. The majority in the committee, however, believe that transferring this responsibility to the municipalities will not be the right way to go, but will also look forward to further digitisation simplifications of the scheme. The proposals put forward by the representatives of the Central Party on the agenda stand at the back of the Committee and will support the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1531	The right to life, freedom and expansion have always been central to the Right. This right has no value if it does not cover all. Aid and organisation are key measures to ensure the independence, equality, non-discrimination and participation of all Nordics in society. It is therefore important to take into account the needs of the user, in addition to providing the service as efficiently and economically as possible. Investing in the necessary tools is a good thing both for individuals and for society at large. In the context of the State budget, the government signaled that they would look at how one could secure good, holistic services closer to the users in the future. We already know that the use of aids will increase, both because the need for so-called simple, high-frequency aids increases as the number of older people in the population increases, and because the need for more advanced tools will also increase. This is why the government has taken the view that municipalities must be able to meet the primary needs of the population so that, with relatively simple needs, they get what they need, as quickly as possible, and that not all users of facilities end up in the same queue and thus get worse services back. In addition, it is smart to see tools in conjunction with other needs for services for which municipalities are responsible. This would provide a more robust and forward-looking management of simple and high-frequency tools, in line with the recommendations of the Hervik Committee, which precisely evaluated this in its report, entitled ‘A more efficient and forward-looking tool delivery – for increased participation and mastering’. On the right, we believe that we need to build services as close as possible to the users, and want to upgrade the municipalities to do this job. We note that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV disagree on this, and ensure a majority in favour of the proposal that the government should "clash out the plans to transfer responsibility for aids from the state to the municipality". We believe that it is to do both users of simple, high-frequency tools and those who need advanced aids, a bear service. In addition, there is a lack of confidence in local democracy and the ability of local authorities to solve tasks for their citizens – this from parties that are otherwise opposed to community mergers and believe that the less so, the better, but which then have no confidence in the quality of the services. So the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV do not trust that a municipality can deliver shower crackers or scooters to those who need it. Today, a majority in the European Parliament will put further restrictions on the follow-up to the report of the Hervik Committee. This happens before the department, which has been working on the follow-up to the report for one year, makes its proposals. This is done without consultation or open dialogue with stakeholder organisations. The municipalities, those who are actually closest to the users, are already excluded by the majority of Storting as part of a more efficient and forward-looking intermediary. Of course, the Ministry has followed up the decision to scrape the plans. It's a shame, because it could be that those responsible for homework and follow-up could see the need for help in the context and thus built the service around the actual needs of the users. With the Right Party and the Advance Party in government, the municipalities have had a stronger real growth in their free revenues, precisely in order to strengthen their offer to the inhabitants. When it comes to simplifying administrative procedures, reviewing the range of the scheme and developing better ICT solutions, this is part of the ongoing work of the government, without detailed guidance from the Stortinget. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare is already looking at improvements related to points 2 to 5 of the proposal, but wants to develop good solutions in dialogue with the organisation of users. Political detail management overrides this dialogue and the possibility of finding better solutions. In this proposal, the Labour and Social Committee has also addressed the issue of a strengthened ergotherapy environment in the municipalities, which is under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This environment has already been adopted in the context of the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation for 2017 to 2019. In addition, the Ergotherapy service becomes a statutory task for municipalities from 2020. The right is impatient on behalf of users in order to provide more efficient and forward-looking tools. This ensures participation, self-drivingness and mastering. Therefore, it is a pity that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV today choose to ignore the thorough work that has been done – through detailed management that limits the possibilities of finding the good solutions in an open dialogue with user organisations. What may look like good suggestions on the table is not necessarily the best solution in practice. Consequently, the right votes against the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1552	The government-appointed expert committee chaired by Professor Hervik was tasked with assessing the need for changes in the policy of the facility in the future. The report ‘A more efficient and forward-looking tool delivery – for increased participation and mastering’ was presented in February 2017. The report suggests some adjustments in the responsibilities between the State and the municipality, but that the main model should be established. Various measures have also been proposed to improve the effectiveness of current dissemination through, inter alia: strengthening the competence and capacity of local authorities in this area. Let me stress that it is important for all of us that the aid system works well and according to purpose. It is an objective to ensure that it contributes to the ability of the disabled person to be active and participate in both education and work. That we want to adjust the distribution of responsibilities by giving municipalities a slightly greater responsibility is precisely about that, the best of the users, in line with one of the sample recommendations. There is little doubt that it is also the best of users who here are the intention of the proposers. Nevertheless, I think it is unfortunate, after having a report on the table first, to make a single proposal that locks the system without looking at and considering the various proposals and considerations the sample has come up with. The system of tools is currently a system in which responsibilities are shared between several. The municipalities are the first line and contribute among others. to identify and assess needs and to test aids. Furthermore, municipalities have a responsibility to allocate and finance aids in case of short-term needs. In addition, there are several other actors responsible for allocating resources, such as schools and employers. It is therefore not possible to turn the system upside down if municipalities are given greater responsibility for the allocation of aids than they have today. There is also reason to recall that recommendations have also been made in the past. In 2010, a similar review of the aid policy was carried out, when in NOU 2010: 5. The sample also suggested that municipalities should be given increased responsibility, but that the main model should be firm. The State budget made it clear that the government is now examining proposals for the measures in question and how to ensure the extension of the rights in the area of municipal responsibility. It is not that users lose a right, or that a conversion would involve a major change to today's model, whether or not a basis for the expert committee's proposal. As a matter of fact, no decision has yet been taken on the measures in question. It is first to be investigated, and I believe that the Stortinget should wait for something to be adopted, in order to ensure a comprehensive solution. Several of the proposals may be relevant. But there's something premature, which I've expressed -- not because they're necessarily out of date. But with the letters from the Council of State to the Committee, where she also confirms that several of the proposals may be relevant, I hope that the House can give the necessary time to clarify what is best for its adoption. In view of this, the Progress Party will also vote against the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1569	When the Center Party promoted this proposal, it was just, as many have been involved, to put the user's best in the center. Having well-adapted tools, having a device that can be of great help in everyday life, giving freedom to people, and there are small things that can give great freedom at a reasonable cost. For the Central Party, it is important that these facilities are taken from state-funded help centres. They have to operate in close dialogue with the health services of the municipalities, i.e. in close interaction. As many people have been involved, there has been a government-designated sample in progress, the Hervik committee, and what came out there, was that there were different offers from where they lived. From the centre party we are concerned that we should have an equivalent offer across the country, and then we must have an interaction between the state and the municipality, so that we can ensure both the equivalence and the necessary flexibility on which the proposals are based. So we're going in to improve today's system of continued government funding, and the reference is then the Hervik committee. We propose that one should have a comprehensive and equivalent offer in the future with rights and funding for all resources in the public sector and a lending scheme as at present. We need to improve ordering arrangements, we need to get more stocks of tools, and we need to improve ICT solutions, because there are many types and many models of different tools here, and then it is important to have an overview of what is appropriate for the individual. We need to further develop the system of user passports, and we need to have the necessary professional competence in the first line. There may be ergot therapists, but usually also nurses, and the other professionals will be able to do a good job in terms of the many less complicated aids that we are talking about here. I would also like to highlight what we have in VII in the vote, where we ask the government to provide leadership for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' informed evaluation of hearing aids and orthopaedic aids, so that a particular emphasis is placed on the quality and benefits of users and society and requires a continued anchoring in public security in terms of rights and funding. Finally, when one goes into this matter, one will experience that there are a lot of different equipment being used, and many models and many types change quite quickly. I would like to say that it is essential that those working on this topic focus on a position where one uses the equipment a little longer. I am aware that there are significant amounts of equipment that are currently being used to a small extent and are therefore being sold out, which means a cost to the public. Here we need to ensure that both attitudes and regulations are such that we can use the equipment a little longer, and not waste the equipment. I hope, then, that this vote of the majority of the committee will receive the support of the Christian People's Party in the Chamber today, so that this can become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1584	The Christian People's Party wants a society with space for everyone, where everyone can live free and independent lives as far as possible. The Christian People's Party believes that human dignity means that all people have inviolable value, and that society becomes poorer if there is no room for diversity. The policy that is being pursued shall put man in the centre. The Christian People's Party is working for the social equality of all people, regardless of their starting point. Disability should not be a barrier to success in Norwegian society, and the Christian People's Party believes that people with different levels of function are a resource and add value to society. We all have a responsibility to reduce man-made barriers that exclude people from active participation. People with disabilities are not a uniform group. Nevertheless, surveys show that they have a worse living condition than the average in the population. In addition, many experience that the provision of benefits and services varies greatly from municipality to municipality, which in some cases may result in an undesirable move. The Christian People's Party is concerned that Norway should have a good policy for people with disabilities. That's why we secured a majority to scrape the plans to transfer responsibility for aids from state to municipality in Stortinget on 15 December last year. We are also concerned about the issues raised in the draft representative that we are dealing with today. We are, like the proposers, of the opinion that simplification is important for users, better ICT solutions, more user involvement, good information, more ergoterapeuts in the municipalities, strengthening the municipal visual and auditory contacts and a continued anchoring in the public interest in the rights and funding of hearing aids and orthopaedic aids. The fact that the municipalities can solve the problems, there's probably no doubt about it, but municipalities have very different financial assumptions. The organisations of disabled people have been very concerned about this and fear that by transferring the facility to municipalities also in terms of funding, one will no longer have the equivalence and non-discrimination of which the representative Lundtägen was also concerned. That is why the Christian People's Party will today vote for all the proposals that are being promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1597	In a joint opinion on this matter, the Committee: ‘help is necessary to ensure that people are able to live as much as possible, or completely, independent lives.’ [[...]] We refer to what the government of Solberg itself writes: ‘The Norwegian aid system has been assessed as world-leading.’ In spite of this, government parties find reason to weaken a system with which many are very satisfied, which creates equal access to services throughout the country and which gives good predictability. It's incomprehensible to me. That is why I am pleased that the bulk of the population put down their feet, said that we cannot accept this, and asked the government to reverse the notified change, which created a great deal of uncertainty among those affected by it. It is not correct what was said by the High Representative earlier in the debate that the proposal would result in a more robust and comprehensive regime. All user organisations warned and were skeptical as it creates risks of both greater differences and more unforeseeable. That is why it was necessary for the Stortinget to seize it. But that doesn't mean we're satisfied. We have to go on, because there are still big things that need to be done to improve the facility. A number of proposals in this setting are promoted by the opposition. I have to say I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is now warning that they are giving support to these proposals, thereby ensuring the majority for them. Just as the Storting stopped the government's plans to put this scheme into play, so the bulk of the population now makes sure that new steps are taken to further develop the scheme. It must be embarrassing for the Prime Minister, after she has stood here and spoke warmly for an inclusive society, that right-wing representatives, a few hours later, go and vote against a number of proposals that would just contribute to a more inclusive society. It shows that there is a long way between what is said in the government statement and what is actually done in real political action. The reason we are promoting these proposals is simply impatience on behalf of the users, on behalf of those affected. As the right-hand side representatives themselves point out, the government has been sitting and investigating this for over a year. There have been a number of opportunities to improve the system, to strengthen the one where you have seen that there have been weaknesses. Now you get an invitation from the opposition parties to contribute to that work. The government does not, and therefore Stortinget has to take that responsibility. On the contrary, the government is really going in the wrong direction. It creates uncertainty around the scheme – it has stopped Stortinget – but at the same time it has removed e.g.: the objective of Norway as a universally designed society by 2025, which will lead to an increase in the need for facilities. The less universally designed society is, the more need will, of course, be for aids. I'm glad that the Stortinget now shows that you take responsibility where the government fails its responsibility, that you show the power of action where the government just sits and investigates, and that once again, as in the previous case, you take an important step in the right direction to actually contribute to a more inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1622	It almost sounds like it was the representative of Grande and the opposition that set up the expert committee to improve the facility, but it wasn't, it was this government that did it – just to remind you of that. There are several tools available in Norway, including: WHO, considered to be the world leader. We're going to have to take care of that, too. The basic model of the Norwegian system shall be established. I feel that there is a broad consensus on this. But we need a strong and competent first line in the municipalities and a highly competent resource and competence centre in the country's aid centres. However, the system is under pressure when we see projections of the number of older people, and thus the number of people in need of both services and resources in the coming period. There is a doubling of the number of cases in this area over the next 25-30 years, and that gives us a quantity problem that needs to be solved. There are great weaknesses in today's system. It's not that today's system is good. That's also why the government wants to change it, and that's why the government put down the expert committee, which just went through the resource area. The committee proposed a number of different measures, including proposals to clarify a limited transfer of responsibilities from country to municipality, where the aim was to examine whether this overall would provide better services for users, while at the same time ensuring that users’ rights were properly respected. However, on 15 December last year the Stortinget took a request decision asking the government to scrape the plans for such an investigation of any transfer of responsibility from the state to the municipality. I have to say I am a little questioning that Stortinget was not even willing to investigate this before the conclusion was reached, but I register Stortinget's decision. As far as the other proposals for decisions are concerned, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare is already considering improvements in today's system, including: in the field of ICT. I also refer to the point in the government platform that the government will work to improve access to facilities for people with disabilities. The proposers have several concrete proposals for changes to today's system. Among other things, there is a desire to revitalise the user passport system, to extend the ordering system and to increase the use of local stocks. The idea behind the user passport system and the ordering system is good. I have also been in contact with the Employment and Welfare Directorate on these proposals. Technological solutions are now working to ensure that these schemes are now more used, will be less timely or redundant – at least in today's form. Among other things, the possibility of increased use of self-service solutions and improved electronic interaction with municipalities is now under consideration. I am therefore a little surprised that the Storting should take decisions that are so detailed that they in principle restrict the space for action in order to find good solutions. Increased use of local stocks should be further assessed by the Directorate in cooperation with its municipalities. This type of solution is not uniquely positive in all municipalities. The solutions currently being worked on should also be discussed with user organisations. I believe that responsibility for developing these systems should be exercised in the dialogue between the State of Labour and Welfare, the municipalities, user organisations and suppliers. In my opinion, it is not appropriate for the Storting to go so far as to oblige the establishment to use solutions that are considered less good than others. It is important that we provide the Working and Welfare Unit with the necessary room for action and confidence to make improvements in today's system, as is also evident from the Nav message that the Stortinge joined in the past. I therefore recommend to Stortinget to await the Directorate's assessments regarding these detailed proposals, and I will return to Stortinget with a statement of this work at a later stage. I agree that in the evaluation of today's system of hearing aids and orthopaedic aids, we need to pay particular attention to the quality and benefits to users and to society. It is quite natural that this evaluation is based on today's division of responsibilities, but at the same time, I believe that whoever gets the assignment must also have the opportunity to assess other models. I will come back to Stortinget after this is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1641	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1646	It is not so easy to get wise on the signals sent from the government parties in this matter. On the one hand, we are told that some of the proposals that are now being promoted are already under way, and that is quite unnecessary. At the same time, it is said that it is unnecessary for the opposition to promote these proposals, because one should wait for an overall review. I think the Council of State agrees that if you actually want to do something, you have the opportunity to do it while working in parallel with the development of the whole system. That is what the Storting has now decided – or is going to do later today when we get a majority of the proposals available. Then we're concerned about the follow-up. Here the Council of State warns that one would like to look at an investigation before perhaps coming back to Stortinget with a statement. Is the Council of State immediately working on the proposals adopted by the Stortinget later today, or will the Council of State sit and wait for this review before making proposals afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1654	We are already following up the expert committee's report, but then I register that Stortinget is doing quite detailed work on some of the proposals. Of course, we have to deal with what the Storting decides. When this is to be investigated, I would ideally wish that one could also have the freedom to look at solutions other than what the Storting decides. But of course, we have to deal with what the Storting decides. The government put this expert committee down because there were so many weaknesses in today's system. There was a great need to improve today's system for users and for society as a whole. One of the things we wanted was to assess whether the municipalities could take on more responsibility for some of the more common and frequently used tools. That's what Stortinget put his foot down for. But of course we should follow up the decision of the Storting. Our intention with the expert committee has just been to improve the system for users.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1661	I hear what the council says. The size has been impatient with the follow-up of this expert committee, but the government has let it lie in the marina for a year without almost doing anything, other than risking the scheme by creating uncertainty about what we have previously affected in this debate. I would like to be very inviting to the Council of State: If you want to explore with the Stortinget the possibility of strengthening and improving the scheme further than what is to be adopted today, the Council of State is of course welcome to present the proposal to the Storinget at any time. This does not prevent the immediate start of work on the Storting decision. I just want to make sure that the Council of State, regardless of the other processes, immediately initiates the implementation of what Stortinget decides on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1668	It is not like the government is sitting on the back and waiting for the Storting to adopt this today. We have already started a lot of the investigation work – what the committee of experts also came up with, among other things. improving ICT systems and other for users. We're already doing a great job. In the budget, which was presented in September, we had stated that we also wanted to look at the local authorities' responsibilities for aid. It was the Stortinget who put his foot down for it. I do not feel that the government has been a brake pad in this work. On the contrary, perhaps the Stortinget has placed a number of leads that I would like the Stortinget not to have done, but that I register and take note that they have done. We're going to make proposals on an ongoing basis for Stortinget, and Stortinget is also going to be involved in it. The first task, of course, is to continue the work that has been done, but of course also to follow up the decisions taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1673	These proposals aim at further developing the user’s best asset delivery, based on state funding. There are several help centers. The proposals for decisions are clear. It is ‘The government is asking the government to implement’, ‘be sure the government will take care of’, so I am absolutely sure that the government will do so. There are seven proposals for decisions based on principle. There are no concrete proposals in this sense, except that they cannot be developed further. My question is related to what the Council of State said, that these seven proposals, which are fundamental proposals for decisions, are proposals that are less good than others. Then my question is, what are the other proposals, which are better than these seven principal proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1680	How to organise the different ICT solutions, where to have the facilities, and how to set up a part of the schemes, it must be a little up to the department – together with the municipalities and user organisations – to decide. I'm not an expert on how to organise orthopaedic aids or how to solve hearing aids. This needs to be investigated and suggested by the experts what is the best way to do it. Here I trust that the professionals, together with the users and the municipalities, can find good solutions. I have been concerned that, in this investigation, we also provide professionals with room for action to sketch alternatives – as I mentioned – for example. within the user passport scheme, which is good. But perhaps the user passport system is also possible to do better, but in a different way. The point is that there are great weaknesses in today's system. That's what's behind the government dropping the sample -- we wanted to change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1689	Where the stocks are going to be, we haven't gone into it. What's our premise is that it's going to be equivalent offer. I expect the state to make contact with the municipalities, for example through the municipalities' joint bodies, regional councils, so that a person gets a location that ensures the equivalent offer. In terms of ICT solutions, what we've said is that we need ICT solutions to make it more flexible. The booking scheme is strengthened and the use of local stocks is increased. These are fundamental attitudes, which I expect the government to follow up. Some things about how to do it, what systems you have for doing it, are up to people other than the Storting to decide. It is also in the proposals. Therefore, I think it is a little weak for the Council of State to try to reject the proposals by saying that there are worse proposals than other proposals – when we have not received concrete improvements from the government through its representatives in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1698	I'm a little uncertain about what the question really was. If it is that we have considerable scope for action within the proposals adopted today by the Stortinget, I am pleased with that clarification. That means that we can also find good solutions, based on the recommendations that are, and on the technological developments that are constantly going on out there, all the time. There are great weaknesses today. I wish you could go even further in the investigation work. I record that Stortinget puts his foot down for it. I believe that the municipalities should also be given greater responsibility for providing the more ordinary tools, such as crutches and walking chairs. That's what Stortinget says no. Of course, we should continue the work, make good investigations and make sure that there are more flexible and good solutions for users, more socially useful and economically profitable, and thus take care of both the product perspective and, of course, the societal perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1709	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1716	It is interesting to hear that the Workers' Party is concerned and accuses us of creating insecurity. It's probably security right now and in the future we'll have going through today's system. As the Minister of Labour also clarified in his statement, the government put the sample down, because there is a need to review the scheme. A good thing cannot be repeated too often, so I repeat that the sample proposed a number of different measures, of which no. 3 concerned a proposal to clarify a limited transfer of responsibility from the State to the municipality, which was intended to examine whether this overall would provide a better service to users, while at the same time presupposing that users’ rights should be properly respected. It is a challenge today that it takes too long from an applicant to actually get the help. In view of the future, I find it regrettable that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV do not trust that the municipalities of the country can provide services of the same quality in the auxiliary sector. Then it looks dark for the future. Right-wing thinks it's unfortunate that you won't find out before you conclude. It looked the majority away from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1727	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1739	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1764	In Case No: 3, 4 and 5 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1789	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Steinar Reiten on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1801	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1817	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget in 2019 to submit proposals to reintroduce the car support scheme for type 1 cars for persons in permanent work.’; The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1878	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-30.ana.ud93e1933	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
