ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e28	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e33	I hereby propose to introduce criminal provisions into the Law on municipal pre-emption rights for tenure farms. I also promote proposals for action against sexual harassment in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e38	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e43	I have the honour, on behalf of the representatives of Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Geir Pollestad, Willfred Nordlund and myself, to propose the presentation of a report on national ownership in strategically important companies, infrastructure and technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e64	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Anniken Hauglie, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Ola Elvestuen for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e73	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. Most in Norway work in a well-regulated working life. At the same time, Norwegian workers go to work and are concerned that there are foreign workers who are ready to take the job at a lower price, under worse conditions, in the construction industry, in the transport industry and in industry. It doesn't have to be like this. In Norway, Norwegian pay and work conditions shall apply. Norwegian authorities can ensure this, and tripartite cooperation can ensure it. The same workers see a government that is passive in the meeting of unprofessionalism. In the state budget, some more money is allocated to the a-krim centres – that’s good. Here we're not talking about the pure crime, that's not what I want to ask. My theme is the great category of social dumping – the great field of unprofessionalism in the labour market. The Labour Party launched three concrete action plans against social dumping in the government. This government councillor Hauglie is part of, drew the last and has not brought any new. The government could follow up the Storting’s decision on supervision and sanctions against companies operating illegal rentals, but there is no case from the government. The government could vote for lease-in restrictions. The government could support the decisions on how the use of tenders in the public sector should not impair the pension conditions of employees. The government could support the proposal to strengthen the public service and labour crime centres, but they choose to vote against it. This is marked out in the workplace. The space for action needed to ensure safe jobs with decent living wages is provided by the EEA Agreement. It has followed up with proposals in Stortinget, but it assumes that the government is using that space of action. My question is this: The Storting has decided to tighten up rents, which will apply from 1 January. There will be new rules in four weeks, but the government has not been able to impose any sanctions on those who might break these rules. The question is therefore: why has the government not prepared and imposed sanctions to ensure that infringements of such rules will be brought about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e86	It was a strange premise for that question. There are few governments that have done as much to combat unprofessional conditions in the world of work as this government. We are now developing the third strategy against a-crime together with the parties. In our government period, we have established seven anti-employment crime centres in cooperation with the parties. We have put in place several new mechanisms for penalties, and we are now also working on sharing information and other things, as well as taking an international initiative to just fight crime across borders. In addition, this government has tightened up the procurement rules for public acquisitions, where we include: requires both apprentices, the number of contract members and others. So claiming that this government is not doing anything to combat unprofessional relationships is simply wrong. It's this government that's really taken care of this. The opening rules, which were dealt with by Stortinget in ours, were dealt with on a proposal from the government. The government had worked with the parties for a long time. There was a great deal of disagreement between the parties about how the lease-in rules were supposed to be, but we presented a bill that we thought balanced the different considerations well. The majority wanted to go further, and the government of course follows up the decisions taken by the Stortinget. The premise that this government is not doing anything to combat unprofessional conditions in the workplace is directly wrong. Some of the examples that I've now framed up are signs of just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e97	As I said, it's not the crime I want to talk about here now -- it's important enough, and there's something done in the crime field -- it's the whole big field that's under the obvious crime I've been talking about. I think the storywriting, that it was the government that initiated the tightening up of rents, won't stand. There were parties in Stortinget that pushed it forward, and it was just to be lacking that the government did not follow it up. Under this government, the number of out-of-work inspections has fallen by about 25 pst. – visible and follow-up visits to the workplace. The Government has not issued sanctions, which may apply from 1 January, if there is a breach of the lease-in provisions, nor has it strengthened supervision to detect breaches of the provisions. How does the government believe that laws are being enforced, when they have neither penalties nor supervision to monitor their compliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e104	As I said in my previous answer, a number of initiatives have been taken under this government, just to combat unprofessional working conditions. The A-Crimen Centres are one, tightening up the procurement code is another. For this purpose, it is quite right that the Labour Inspectorate has changed its supervisory strategy. It has been conscious, for what we have seen, is that the Labour Inspectorate may have used a little too many resources to go after the law-abiding – to check relatively simple relationships between the law-abiding actors. We have wanted to turn the efforts of the Labour Inspectorate to drive more with guidance and help to the serious ones and to go more after the unprofessional ones. It is not the number of supervision that is the measure of good supervision, that is how supervision is organised. Now that the seven a-krim centres have been set up, for example, it means that the control conditions are collapsing. You have more targeted, more powerful and more effective supervision than you had in the past. It also produces results, precisely because you can put more unprofessional out of play – and that's what must be the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e113	There will be follow-up questions – first Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e118	It's not like we owe the government for not doing anything. We say that part of what they're doing is wrong, or that they're weak. We ask fairly precise questions, but we get an imprecise answer. In some contexts, Norwegian workers have also experienced that employee rights do not have a strong enough legal position. That's what they saw, among other things. in 2016, in conjunction with the Holship judgment of the Supreme Court, where the companies’ right of freedom of establishment led to the rights of workers. There was something that many responded to, including: The European Movement, which stated that it is important that the Supreme Court is involved in protecting the right to freedom of establishment, but that the judgment is challenging when it comes to labour policy. That also means the working party. There's some reason why we want the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act. It will give them precedence in Norwegian law. This will make them stronger than today in the event of any conflict with the EEA rules. The question is whether the Council of State intends to take the initiative in incorporating ILO core conventions into the human rights law. I also want a reason for the answer, whether it's yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e127	In the premise of the questions, the representative told Tajik that the measures had been weak. Well, those measures have been developed together with the social partners and the agencies, and both the parties and the agencies themselves say that the strategy provides good results. These measures are effective; they are capable of putting more out of the game than was previously achieved. We're going to be very happy about that. But we shouldn't be content with that. We are now working with the parties to develop our third strategy, where we are reviewing those we already have, just to make several powerful actions. So it's true, as the representative says, that the EEA Agreement has some challenges, as we have seen in particular. the final judgments of the Court of First Instance. But the big picture is that the EEA Agreement is good for Norwegian workers, it is good for Norwegian working life, and it is good for Norwegian working conditions. In total, employees are better off with the EEA Agreement, precisely because the EEA Agreement ensures a level playing field across Europe. To this end with the ILO core conventions: I do not know which of the core conventions that the representative Tajik wants to incorporate. It has not been investigated, and I am also not sure that it will solve the problem that Tajik wants to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e136	Leif Audun Sande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e141	Foreign workers are treated relatively equally, subject to conditions such as Norwegian, by generalising tariff agreements. In the decisions that cover travel, diet and lodging, and the starting point for the coverage is that these are posted workers as commuters. But then the employers are able to find a giant dirt hole. Polacks, Lithuanians and others who come here are not defined as being posted; they are defined as locals not commuting but repatriating, or even holidaymakers in their home country. It looks like a commuting arrangement: two weeks of work, two weeks of work – four weeks of work, two weeks of work. However, due to changes in definitions, employers skip all travel expenses to the employee, all cost to the employee, all accommodation expenses to the employee – get completely out of the way. This is social dumping in the system. Why does the Council of State take no initiative at all to close this gigantic hole, e.g. by supporting the Workers' Party's proposal on average working time calculations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e147	These were actually more questions on the same question. Travel, diet and lodging have been an area of different types of challenges. One is the one that has been EEA-relevant, which has been much discussed, but it has also been another challenge, which is about the so-called out-of-port establishments, i.e. the fact that you are neglecting the obligations to cover travel, food and lodging, because you get a so-called mailbox company. The last issue was, as far as I understand, largely addressed through the last year's collective bargaining, where the parties agreed on how to solve this. In this way, collective bargaining has taken a decision that solves the second – and collective bargaining is a joint management body, which has found a solution to the second issue. No, I disagree with the point of averaging. I believe that this is something that should be in the hands of the parties today. I do not want to carry out the tightening-up proposed by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e154	Øystein Langholm Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e159	The EU agency directive was introduced on 1 July 2013. At the same time, the red-green government introduced a collective court of law. On 1 July 2015, only two years later, it was repealed by the Right-wing Party Government, which took over in 2013. The right of collective redress was considered by Norwegian workers to be the best way of controlling rentals under the Directive. It goes without saying that when someone's hired, they're not willing to go to court with neither the rental company nor the rental company, because then there's a great chance that you won't get any further involvement. This is considered to be a matter of private law by the government, where neither the Labour Inspectorate nor the trustee can enter into the relationship. Why does the Minister of Labour not want Norwegian workers to have this important tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e164	The Temporary Agency Directive is also a good example of how EU directives contribute significantly to raising the standard and ensuring equal rights and conditions for workers. This is a good example of benefits from the EEA Agreement. The Temporary Agency Directive is also an example of the possibility for Norwegian authorities to exploit the space for action to have a higher standard than that envisaged by that Directive, because the Directive is a minimum level and not a maximum level. The reason for the issue of collective redress was that we did not want to continue it, first of all that there was very much controversy between the parties. We are concerned that in the spirit of party cooperation it must be that we listen to both sides of the table, and this was very controversial on the one hand. It was also not used, or hardly used, and it had seen no real meaning like that. We believe that this is a matter of private law. You have the opportunity today to go to trial, and it's basically unfortunate that others should go to trial on behalf of yourself, even if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e171	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e176	The EEA Agreement, with the free movement of workers from countries with poor pay and working conditions and high unemployment, has major implications. We have to do more in Norway, but more and more occupational groups are experiencing a deterioration in pay and working conditions. The last matter of direct relevance to the content of the Norwegian Generalised Tariff Agreements is the Tariff Topic Decision of 11 October on the continued partial publication of the Industrial Agreement. The decision of the Norwegian Supreme Court was set aside, and the ESA’s view of the legislation, against the voice of the LO, emerged in the subject matter of the Tariff. My question is this: does Norway no longer have the room for action to comply with the judgment of the Supreme Court if the case is brought before ESA and ESA has a different opinion than the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e183	Indeed, Norway has an opportunity, and the Norwegian Government also insisted on the Supreme Court’s decision on the issue of travel, diet and lodging. This is a relatively complicated case, which has been going on in the Norwegian judicial system for very many years – for more than ten years it has been changing – before ESA came up with its opening letter and the parties in its negotiations tried to find a solution between themselves. They found a solution, and other questions came up on the subject of the Tariff in the autumn. The subject of the collective agreement is a joint management body where the parties sit together to discuss it. There has also been a great deal on the legal side after the Supreme Court was delivered. There have been several judges in the case, and proposals have also been made for a new broadcasting directive, which changes not least the issue of travel, diet and lodging. It is also, as far as I understand, the new directive on broadcasting, the subject of tariffs, that has been taken into consideration when they made their decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e190	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e195	I understand the answer so that the Norwegian Magnificent could follow the judgment of the Supreme Court – the majority could do so. The matter has been under discussion for a long time between the management of the LO, the NHO and the Prime Minister and the responsible State Council. The association Norsk Industrie, NHO, took the case further to the control body of the EEA Agreement, ESA. They considered that the Supreme Court judgment on travel, diet and lodging of public tariff agreements was not in line with Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement, inter alia. the Posting of Workers Directive. My question then is: does the Council agree with the ESA's interpretation of the EEA Agreement's obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e202	I assume that ESA believes that the decision was not in line with the EEA Agreement. We have had several meetings with ESA on this matter, and we then figured out that the parties would sit together to see how they, as owners of the collective agreements, could reach agreement on their collective agreements. There were several issues related to travel, diet and lodging. Something was EEA-relevant, other matters were not. This has now been managed through the wage settlement between our partners and through the collective bargaining topic, where the parties are represented. And just the changes in the broadcasting directive were some of the subject matter until they were supposed to make their decision. The Broadcasting Directive significantly strengthens the rights of workers. It is good for workers, both in Norway and in Europe, to have the Posting of Workers Directive in place – precisely because it strengthens the rights of those sent out. It is also worth remembering that there are provisions on travel, diet and lodging in other countries, so that doesn't mean that you can no longer cover the expenses, because that's what you can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e209	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e215	I understand the reality of the many words that the Council of States agrees with the ESA's assessment. The wording of Decision No 11 October is deliberately approximate. The subject says, among other things: that ‘they take their decisions within the framework of the legal basis referred to therein at all times shall be binding on the competence of the denominator’. The most concrete thing is that ‘coverage for ‘a reasonable number of return journeys’ is removed from the regulation’. In addition, it says: «The change is to be understood in such a way that there is no longer an obligation to cover travel between the country of origin and Norway.» My question is: does the Council of State agree that this means that workers who live abroad are cheaper for companies at the discretion of the Customs Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e225	It has not been given that they will be cheaper in accordance with the decision of the Tariff Division. The Broadcasting Directive now sets out clearer rules on how travel, diet and lodging are to be determined and what is to be incorporated into that concept. The Broadcasting Directive clearly states that equal pay should be paid for equal work at the same place. It is significant that it is the Euro-LO that was among the drivers of the changes that were because they saw precisely that the changes would strengthen the workers' rights in Europe. Then it is worth remembering that we are concerned about discussing the autonomy and cooperation of the parties, tripartite cooperation and bipartite cooperation. It is the parties that own their agreements, and it is the parties that manage their agreements. Tariff heading is a composed, independent management body. Of course, the size of the issue can be overestimated by law, but it's a pretty big intervention in what we're talking about, the autonomy of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e232	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e237	To date, the parties in Norway have been able to negotiate until wages and salaries can be met, and employment can be lived with. That's what's threatened with this ESA decision. As I understand the Council of State now, the Council of State believes that Norway has the opportunity to act in this matter. It must then be understood that the government does not want to secure food, shelter and transport as it has been in the workshop agreement in Norway from 1907 onwards, i.e. one of the pillars that has ensured us against the negative effects of labour immigration. Is it correctly understood that the Council of State says we can, but the government doesn't want to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e242	You always have the ability to test and put an action room on the top. In this case, there could be a risk of a breach of the Treaty. If it would be a dangerous way to go, I shouldn't say. What we've been concerned about is that once there's been a discussion, what's in the collective bargaining agreements, it's up to the parties to see if the collective bargaining agreement can possibly be reviewed and adapted to what is international law. I would like to point out again that the EEA Agreement is good for Norway. It is good for Norwegian workers, it is good for European workers. The Temporary Agency Directive, the Broadcasting Directive and the Enforcement Directive are all directives that strengthen the opportunities of Norwegian authorities to pursue unprofessional actors and help raise the rights of workers in Norway and Europe. And I believe that the opposition jumps smoothly over the benefits offered by the EEA agreement for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian workers. Now the parties have found a solution to the question of travel, diet and lodging.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e249	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e254	Indeed, the Council of State is very happy that this can be adopted by Norway on its own initiative — for example. In fact, all the measures provided for in the agency directive could be adopted by Norway. So the high standards that this government needs directives in order to be pressured into adopting are completely possible. When the EEA Agreement was introduced, public disclosure was the very proof that we were to retain Norwegian control of Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norway. That's what was promised. When the conditions of public service are now threatened by this decision in the subject-matter of Tariffs – where the employer’s side would not respect a Norwegian Supreme Court judgment but takes it into account – one has to ask: Is the Council satisfied that the NHO, which is the government’s support player, has now put the whole EEA Agreement at risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e261	I do not agree that the NHO has jeopardized the EEA Agreement. They have, like all other stakeholder organisations, prejudiced the interests of their members, and that is legitimate. They've won, and you can always think about it a lot. Yes, Norway can, of course, also raise standards on its own keel. It is strictly not necessary to have an EEA agreement to raise the standards. But what Norway relies on, with the EEA Agreement, is just access to markets. 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the European market. I believe anyone who follows the brexit negotiations closely, sees that an outsidership is not necessarily particularly beneficial. For Norway, which is a large commodity exporting nation with an open economy, it would be relatively risky to say no to the open market access provided by the EEA Agreement. I have taken note of the fact that the parties have reached an agreement, both through the wage-fixing process in ours and through the subject of tariffs, on how the collective agreement is to be understood in terms of travel, diet and lodging. And that is in addition to the provisions that are already in the various directives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e270	Let's move on to the next main question. The President would not like to interrupt a good question change, but would remind us of Storting's Rules of Procedure § 72, that follow-up questions should be based on the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e277	Now the main issue is predatory policy. Robbery policy is about people's lives, it's about the right to manage the nature you've lived in and off for generations. The predatory policy is essential for the hunter who has reaped the abundance of nature. It is crucial for the older man who, every year, delights to go hunting with bickey saying, but who can no longer do so, or for the young couple who want to do hunting tourism and create a new diet, but who sees that the basis for nutrition disappears. It is crucial for the farmer who has used the mountain and the forest that grazes their animals, and sees that it is no longer possible because the animals are missing because of predators, or the small children's family who know only the unrest because there is becoming increasingly close wolves around their house, and who know the insecurity: Is it safe to use the school road anymore? Those who are most affected by the policy are those who are least heard. Those who take electric bicycles to their jobs in the department are the ones who run, and they don't know the politics of the body at all. In the most affected counties, 150 of 164 rapporteurs signed a treaty against predatory policies this summer. The main requirement was that the government had to follow up the collapse settlement. When I meet people who are affected by predatory policies, there is one clear message: the border is reached. The number of wolves has exploded due to unwise government policies in 2016 and 2017. Then my question is: will the Council of State listen to all those rapporteurs? Will he listen to all those affected by predatory policies, those affected by predatory policies? And will the Council of State ensure that the decision of the Storting on the wolf population is met?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e284	It was then an unusually gloomy picture of the situation that the representative showed. Of course, we should follow up the decisions of Stortinget. That's what we're doing. We follow up on the Berne Convention, we follow up the message of biodiversity, we follow up the two predatory agreements and the majority decision on wolves. That's also what's done this year. And we're following up what's a clear zone management, that we have grazing priority areas where there's very low threshold for harvesting both wolves and other predators. This year we have the largest extract of the wolf that has been since the wolf was saved in 1973. I think there are 38 animals that are dead. 35 is fired. So this we're following up. I think it is positive that in the case of detected losses due to predators, the preliminary figures show that there is a slight decrease this year, even though it is very small.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e292	I hear the Council of State think that I have a dark approach to predatory policy, but I have a realistic approach to it: 150 of 164 rapporteurs come up with a bulwark asking that predatory policy be followed up, and 150 of them are rapporteurs in the most affected states. They know the consequences of politics on the body. As regards the number of animals lost: within the wolf zone there is hardly any grazing animal left, ergo, it is of course not possible to lose grazing animals on the pasture. Governments know very well that today we have a number of wolves and a population that is more than twice as large as the size of the Stortinget when they adopted their predatory settlement. Then my question is: will the Council of State ensure that the agreed stock target is reached in the number of wolves, or is the Council of State aware that we now have a stock of more than twice the agreed target of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e299	The number of juveniles in 2017 was 10,5 when a raining 0,5 in frontier flocks. Two of them have already been taken out, so there were 8.5 young people, and there are a little over 4-6 young people, who were the decision of the Storting. That's the situation we have today. How many young people we have this year is just too early to say. But we will follow up on the policy we have with regard to the majority decision on the wolf, and we will follow up on what is in the commitments we have under the Berne Convention, which has also been adopted by the Storting. With regard to the complaint now under consideration in my department concerning the decision of the predators' dentures of wolves in the wolf zone, I cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e306	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e311	Governments know very well that if we're going to be able to get on the settled stock of the Storting, we're going to have to take out wolves within the wolf zone. And some of the problem with zone policy is that those who live in that area experience that it has become a reserve. They were never asked if they would live in a reservation. They were never asked if they wanted their hunting opportunities to be lost, that they would lose their hunting rights, that they would lose the ability to drive grazing animals, that they would experience that there was more and more nearby wolf around their houses. But this has happened, and that policy has been trodden down on them. Does the Council of State agree that it is necessary to reach an agreed target, and must it also have pursued within the so - called wolf zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e318	I agree with what is the policy of the majority of the population for this: we must have the large predators in Norway, we must also have wolves in Norway. We have a wolf zone where it's a predatory priority area. It's also adopted by the Storting. You still have hunting rights, they're the same in the wolf zone, there's no difference. Then we're going to follow up on the balance point between what's the big crowd's proposal on wolves and the commitments of the Berne Convention, to which Norway has joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e323	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e328	The Berne Convention is not a problem. The relationship with the Berne Convention has been discussed and discussed by the Stortinget, so there is a great deal of room for action between the Council of State and the Government. However, there were 46 out of 47 rapporteurs in Trøndelag who this summer said clearly that enough is enough in predatory policy – there have been very high predatory losses in Trøndelag this summer – and there was also a criticism where the whole question of bear management in Central Norway and North Norway was central. In the government, the Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Left have pressed for the expansion of the bear zone in Trøndelag. That means that everything east of E6 in the North Throne Layer can be a bear zone. This means that municipalities like Steinkjer, Levanger, Verdal, Stjørdal, Meråker, Selbu and Tidal can become bear zones. Such an extension would result in serious conflicts — with the grazing industry, with one of the most active agricultural areas in the country and with the southern Sami domestic farming. Why will the Council of State and the Government press for the expansion of the bear management area?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e333	Now there's no decision to expand the bear management area, but we're in a discussion with the predatory game topic – precisely because it's a problem that the number of bears and the bear trunk is falling – whether we have a large enough area to meet what's in the bear's stock. Now there is a dialogue between the predatory game subject and the Environment Directorate to see if a consensus can be reached, but the matter has not been addressed to the ministry. This is a dialogue in progress and until any changes are made, it is the zones for which predatory wildlife has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e338	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e343	The reality is that in the summer, the ministry simply called in predatory game on the carpet and said that if they do not expand the bear management area, the department may instruct them to change the entire management plan. That is the reality. Then it's true that someone then put the wild game subject in a dialogue with the Environment Directorate, and I can inform the Council of State that they have now agreed. The management plan will not be reviewed, which means that the bear zone will not be extended. It is agreed by the Directorate for the Environment and the Pest of Robbery. That's a reasonable decision. Does the Council of State mean the same thing? Does he also think it makes sense, and will he now put this away? Or is it that it is still relevant for the government to instruct the robber to expand the bear zone, as the ministry has previously threatened?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e348	What I'm referring to is that we have a case-by-case procedure in which we're just asking to get together, that is, the predatory game subject and the Environment Directorate, to see if you can agree. Then no decision has been made by the government on any extension. The current situation is that of the predatory game zones adopted by the predatory game subject, and they will remain in force until any changes are made to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e354	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e359	It's not right that they're still in a dialogue. They're done with the dialogue. They've had meetings, and I'm standing with the record in front of me here. It says that the parties assume that there has been a thorough process. The adopted management plan is valid and they also say that it will not be possible to make changes now on the basis of the conflicts. It's the council that both the directorate and the robbers give to the department, and I ask: doesn't the council also think it makes sense to put away the whole idea of expanding the bear management zone in Trøndelag?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e364	It's not like it's a thought of expanding. Now, what we're going to think about is we're going to try to reach the population targets of the bear, and that's the discussion that goes on. Is this a sufficient area for us to reach the stock targets? Of course, if there is agreement between the Environment Directorate and the predatory game subject, it is positive that we can achieve that goal. If there's agreement, there's something that's important to have in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e369	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e374	The number of yews has been far above the stock target for many years, and the license hunt for yews has been partly unsuccessful because only about half of the set quotas have been taken out over several years. The fact that the population has been far above the target for many years has caused serious problems for grazing and for domestic farming. In recent years, there has been a testing scheme that has been very successful. We have enough knowledge to make this system permanent, and once again we see that the Council of State is refusing to ensure the active management of predatory game. What experience is the Council of State expecting to do that has not already been achieved through this trial system, and does the Council of State at all intend to make this system permanent?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e379	First, it's important to find out that your loss rates have fallen in recent years. So it's a positive development. The second is that we have continued the trial scheme for hunting methods on you, even during this winter, even though the trial period is over. This is now to be evaluated, and then we have to make an assessment when that evaluation is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e384	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e389	It is important that both objectives of Norwegian predatory policies are taken into account, that one should take care of grazing areas, and that one should take care of the predators for which Norway is responsible. In 2014, one came from a situation in my home country where one had great losses to you – 126 confirmed sheep carcasses that year – which led one to introduce the extraordinary measures now pointed to by the Council of State and which have been partially continued during the current trial period. Now we see that the herds are stable above the herds and have been taken up in relation to the period when one managed to bring down predatory losses in the grazing priority areas of Sogn and Fjordane. Now one at the same time sees that there are several yervtisper who are establishing themselves in the mountains between Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane. This means that one is at risk of a reprisal of what happened in 2014. Does the Council share that concern? And what would he do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e396	As far as you're concerned, there's no doubt that when our measure is 39 young people every year, the Storting has settled on a low number. It's true that we've been over in the case of juveniles for a period of time. But there have also been large withdrawals of yours, among others. hi-up, which is controversial – there are also animal ethical aspects to this. We need to get a more effective withdrawal in the license case. That is why we have continued the experimental arrangements we have. I think I have to say that we must continue the policy we have, namely that we have a clear zoning with grazing priority areas and predatory game priority areas. We have to have an effective hunt when we ask for withdrawals, and then we have to keep in touch with the big picture, which is that the loss of grazing animals to you has fallen in recent years. We want to continue that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e403	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e408	The last thing I can think of is that we want to continue the downturn that has been on yours. That's very good. Then it also requires that we have and use the whole tool kit we have. Success in 2014–2015 was that one introduced the exceptional measures early and that one did not expect. Now one sees that there are five yuvtisper operating in the areas between Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane. Some of them are a real fear of establishing themselves in the grazing priority areas, and one may be back in a situation that has created anxiety and frustration, and which cast doubt on our two-part goal in Norwegian predatory policy. Does the Council share that concern? And what does he want to do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e416	I'm not going to make decisions here about killing permits on exactly the five yuvtispens to which it refers. We have to follow the management system we have. We have a license term. We're in it now, and we're facilitating that it can be effective hunting. The experimental systems continue, and if we get a situation where damage is needed, we have a very low threshold to authorise it. We've had that this year, and we're going to have that to the next year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e421	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e426	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. For the first time in a long time, sea deposits in Norwegian fjords are planned for mining. Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden are both national salmon fjords intended to provide special protection for the wild species. The marine research institute has opposed the applications for marine landfill in both fjords and has warned against the consequences for, inter alia: fish eggs and life on the bottom. Repparfjorden is a national salmon fjord with a species-rich life. Repparfjord River is also a rich salmon eel. The mining company Nussir has applied for 30 million. tonnes of mining waste in Repparfjord from a copper mine in the municipality of Kvalsund during a 15-year period. Fördefjorden is one of the most important spawning fjords in the West for cod and an important seafood fjord. Several red-listed species have spawning and growing areas in the deeper parts of the fjord, where it is sought to dump mining waste. The mining landfill in Førdefjorden could have significant negative effects on coastal cod and eel, piggå and blue ling. The red-listed species blue-linge and piggå are likely to have spawning and growing areas in the planned landfill, and the landfill will remove the only known spawning area of blue-linge in the fjord so far. The fjords are one of the most valuable things we have. They're Norway's pride. Life in the fjords will not die. Therefore, young people in Nature and Youth have engaged and used civil disobedience to save the fjords. The leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, said on 30 July 2015: ‘This is one of the most important environmental issues we have next to the climate battle. You should never, never, never give in to such important things." That is why I am now asking the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, how are things not going?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e446	This has been a matter that has been important to the Left for many years. It was also a central theme in the government negotiations on Jeløya, and is one of the reasons why the decision that has been taken and that the government agrees on is that no new maritime landfills will be permitted during this major period. This is the first time we have such a decision and agreement in Norway. It is also agreed that we should review environmental legislation on mines and the landfill of waste from mines. It shall also be carried out during this grossing-up period. In the case of the two matters concerned with Repparfjorden and Fördefjorden, the agreement is that no change is made to the permission given there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e453	When the Environment Directorate made its first recommendation in the case on 4 November 2014, they said that the environmental considerations ensured that the objections raised against the plans for the landfill of mining waste in Fördefjorden should be taken into account. However, when the Directorate gave its final recommendation to implement the plans in April 2015, the reason was that the benefits of society were greater than environmental handicaps. Afterwards, studies from Nordic Mining show that the company has significantly reduced the number of jobs and the period to be operated, and they have increased the period of operation with open operation in the landscape. Workplaces were a key element of the assessments carried out by the Environment Directorate, which allowed them to say that they could do so and that the benefits of society were greater than environmental disadvantages. One might wonder how many jobs a dead fjord is worth, but when this premise is so radically changed, shouldn't the whole thing be reconsidered?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e458	I think the representative Haltbrecken is well aware of my view of the mining landfill in Førdefjorden, but here are the decisions that have been made, and there are also decisions that have been made before both me and the Left entered the government. The consensus is that we respect those decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e463	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e468	The overrun of environmental and Sami interests by the large community has a particular historical significance in Finnmark. The Alta fight was a defining moment, which has marked both the environmental struggle and not least the struggle for Sami rights. One lesson from that time was the creation of the Sametinge. The pooling is opposite the planned sea deposit in Repparfjorden. Kvalsund is a seasamic area and one of the areas along the Finnish coast where seasamic fjord fishing and language have survived despite major challenges. In this fjord, toxic mining sludge shall be dumped, which will destroy the fjord bed. The government is now examining the operating concession, which has not yet been granted to these activities. Since the climate and environment minister has obviously given up the fight to save life in Fördefjorden, I wonder if he will save life in Repparfjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e475	We're going to relate to the unity we have from Jeløya. I think these matters and the questions illustrate the problems that are at sea landfills. I am pleased and think it is important that we do not allow new sea deposits in the future. I am also pleased that for the first time we have reached an agreement that this should be the case. This is a major shift in Norwegian policy and environmental policy. I also believe it is important that we have a thorough review of the environmental requirements of mining and landfilling. So I look forward and believe that we have made important decisions that will stand in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e480	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e485	What we are hearing now is a climate and environment minister who no longer stands by the party leader's words that 'never, never, never' should go into the fight for the Norwegian fjords. We also hear that we are going to have a review of environmental legislation related to these issues. I have previously asked the Minister for Climate and Environment about the plastic pollution from these mining projects. The Environment Directorate has asked mining companies to explain how much plastic is going to spread in the spring due to the explosion work to be carried out. None of the mining companies will be able to give an answer to this before you have the plans fully in place. Then my question is: Does this not show that there is a need to review these permits when there is no knowledge of significant aspects of pollution from these activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e495	That's also why I asked the Environment Directorate to review how much plastic there is in these take-off masses. It's an important problem. The second is that it illustrates the problem of marine landfills, and therefore it is important that we now, for the first time, have reached an agreement that no new permits should be granted during this landfill period. I hope that there may be a time gap in these matters. This is a major and important breakthrough, and it has not been there in Norwegian policy in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e500	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e505	The Ministry of Climate and Environment has started work on a marine protection area in Dalsfjorden. The reason for this is that this area has some unique topographical and biological resources that one think are worthy of protection. Dalsfjorden is the area that lies on the other side of the Blegja mountain, only a few kilometres in the airline from the area where one is to dump in the Fördefjorden. There are two areas that are similar to each other, and that have much the same animal life. What my government council is is the big difference that makes it one area is skikka for marine protection and the other for 250 million. tons of mining waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e512	The process of marine protection is in its own course. I do not know how far you have come with Dalsfjorden, whether it is still in the Environment Directorate, but I expect that we will get it for proper treatment. The fact that there is a sea deposit in Fördefjorden, which we have now discussed – Left and I respect the consensus we have from Jeløya – does not make other areas less important. On the contrary, it is even more important that we put in place marine protected areas if the protection values are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e517	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e522	I am sorry that it took time, I had left my notes and did not realize that I would ask a new main question just after the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e527	It's going very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e532	State Council Elvesuen can come up again, because I want to ask him a question. The Council of State is responsible for Norwegian climate policy, and we now have a Prime Minister who has given an opinion that I think is a bit alarming. The Prime Minister has said that the person to close the light on the Norwegian socket is not yet born. In the light of the new IPCC report, which says that we are forced to take drastic and quick action if one is to manage to prevent global warming and limit it to 1.5 degrees, and that there will be a big difference between being able to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees or 2 degrees – is this an opinion that the Council of State agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e539	As Minister for Climate and Environment, of course, I will never criticize the Prime Minister. What's important is that the 1.5 degree report is a shift, because what it shows is the difference between 1.5 and 2 degrees of global warming. At 1.5 degrees you can dramatically risk the Arctic being ice-free once every hundred years, with 2 degrees at risk every ten years. What this is all about is whether we're going to have a kind of a recognizable world or not. In order to reach 1.5 degrees – what is positive in the report is that it shows that this is still possible, which was not given – we need to have a dramatic and rapid drop in emissions, i.e. down to 40-50 pst. globally towards 2030. And we have to have net zeros – that is, not zero emissions, but less emissions than absorption – in 2050. It is clear that that decrease in emissions will also affect the use of both oil and gas, which must have a decline in the years to come and which will also affect the situation on Norwegian base and Norwegian production. How fast it's going, and just when you've finished the production, it's hard for me to say. But that we have to do everything we can, get up the pace and act now to reduce emissions as quickly as possible, there is no doubt about it. Norway is, after all, at the forefront of reductions, especially in the transport sector, where we are implementing measures that no other country is in the vicinity of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e548	I thank the Council of State for a good answer and thought he drew up good ambitions and reflections when he answered this question. I also think it is important that one assume that there is a new time in Norwegian climate policy, and that Norwegian oil policy must be followed. So the Council of State shows that there are many things that are far ahead of time, and that there are uncertainties associated with it, but there are some processes that go, and I don't think they necessarily go in the right direction. One might, for example: Take the trend that has developed since the last Left and Christian People's Party was in government, the time when the government listened to 29 p.m. of the environmental advice of the concession rounds, which under Stoltenberg changed to a blow in 80 pst. of them, and who under the government of Solberg have changed that they have added page 100 pst. of the environmental professional advice of the concession rounds. Oil policy is mainly in the OED, but after the hearing it is OED in the form of KLD that has the pre-government dialogue in plenary. I want to ask the State Council what it wants to do to ensure that more environmental advice is followed over the years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e557	First, I want to remind you of what we have already done. Now we also agree in this period that in the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja there should be no petroleum activity. It's the same thing around Jan Mayen, on the Moorfields, north of the ice edge and along the South Coast. Basic decisions are important. So when we look forward, we're going to put forward a new management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. It will come in 2020. We also need an update of the other two management plans, for the Norwegian Sea and for the North Sea. It is a holistic administration, and it will also be a discussion that concerns this. I also believe that we should include the Climate Risk Committee, which is due to present its report now in December – an important knowledge base for the policy to be pursued in the future. It concerns the Norwegian economy as a whole and the petroleum policy, but it will also affect these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e567	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e572	Let's talk about the elephant in the room, what the Workers' Party didn't mention, the free flow of the EEA Agreement. State Council Hauglie has now asked employers to call Nav before calling Poland when there is a need for workers. After the financial crisis and the rise, the proportion of employees with a Norwegian background decreased, while the number of persons employed from Eastern Europe increased by 90,000. This did not happen because the employers had forgotten the telephone number for Nav. This happened because many immigrants have far worse pay and working conditions than is usual in Norway. They're shorter and cheaper. It gives the companies that use them a competitive advantage. Therefore, employers call Poland and not Nav. This is also the reason why large parts of the trade movement are now contrary to the EEA Agreement. It is not because they, or Red, are against labour immigration. For more than 60 years, Norway has lived well with a borderless labour market in the Nordic region, which has functioned as a result of labour migration between countries with similar living standards and similar wage and labour conditions. Today's labour migration from poor countries in Eastern Europe is quite different. Employers now have almost endless access to workers that are easier to exploit. Does the Minister of Labour see that it is in practice impossible to maintain Norwegian wage and working conditions when it is free to import labour from countries where price and salary levels and housing costs are a fraction of the level in Norway, and that this is why employers are just calling Poland and not Nav, as the Minister has now asked them to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e585	One important reason why I encourage employers to take the Nav tour before they call the rest of the world is that after the previous boom in 2009, we saw that the vast majority of the jobs that were occupied went to Immigrants. Two out of three new jobs went to work immigrants. Now, what we're saying is that it can't continue, because that means that if we're going to be able to include more of the people on the outside of the world of work – 20 pst. of the working-age population is not at work today – we need to make sure that several of them come on the inside of Norwegian working life. This means that Norwegian employers must open the doors to Norwegian workers. That's also the background for our inclusion virtue. Then I disagree with the premise of the representative of Moxnes that the EEA agreement weakens Norwegian wage and working conditions. On the contrary, I believe that the EEA Agreement and the directives that have been drawn up and the initiatives that the EU is now taking help to strengthen the rights of workers in Europe and Norway. We also see that, through the EEA Agreement and through EU cooperation, the standard of living in the poorer countries of Europe has increased significantly. A result of this can be seen, among other things. is that fewer immigrants come from Poland, precisely because conditions in Poland have improved. There is no doubt that the EU has been important in raising tens of thousands of poor people in Europe out of poverty. The initiatives that have been taken in the past and which are now being taken by the EU, I believe that Norwegian workers are also positive. This does not mean that the EEA Agreement is only positive and that there are no negative aspects to it. Agreements are very often the result of giving and taking, and I believe that the benefits outweigh the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e594	Here there was no answer to my question if they did not call Poland over to Nav because it is cheaper, and because it is easier to exploit people from poor countries than it is to exploit Norwegian workers. So I don't get an answer from the government to what's my main question. We see that the minister boasts of the agreement and believes it is good for Norwegian workers. She should then perhaps have a talk with industrial workers in the West who, in their trade union, have now turned against the EEA Agreement. They are against it because it causes the Supreme Court’s judgment to be thwarted by the EU competition force. The minister said instead that the government is committed to the Supreme Court judgment. So she said that she argues that ESA believes that the Supreme Court judgment is not in line with the EEA Agreement. The question then arises: will the government take any concrete action through the amendment of the law, regulation or implementation of new directives to prevent Norwegian membership of the EEA Agreement from overstepping Norwegian highest law and publicising Norwegian collective bargaining agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e601	I can assure the representative of Moxnes that the Norwegian Government is active in its meeting with Europe. We participate in all the venues where we can participate, and we also contribute with our competence, our views and our input through the channels we have the opportunity to participate in. My assessment is that the broadcasting directive is also a result of Norwegian and Nordic influence. To the question of cheaper labour: One of the main challenges in Norwegian working life today is, in fact, lack of labour. We see that large parts of the country are struggling to obtain labour. In a city like Tromsø, there are as many job vacancies as there are unemployed on Nav. It tells us one thing: there is not necessarily a match between the competences of those who are outside and the needs of the workforce. That is also the background to the fact that when the government presented its government budget, we added considerable sums to our inclusion mandate, mainly to enhance the competence of those who are in work, but who may be lacking a letter. We also change the actions in Nav, precisely to help more people gain the skills they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e608	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e613	There are 100,000 people without a job. Many young people do not have an apprenticeship place. It's not that strange, because it's cheaper to take in fully skilled from Eastern Europe than to take in apprentices. The search for important construction subjects is dramatically declining in many large cities because of the unregulated flow of labour and employers have almost endless access to skilled people from Eastern Europe who are cheaper and easier to use than Norwegian workers. It is at least quite brave of the Minister to say that there is a shortage of labour in Norway when so many are out of work. I wonder what Hauglie really thinks about the so-called action space in the EEA Agreement when she said to an earlier question today that we are at risk of a breach of the Treaty if we use the EEA Agreement's space of action when it comes to the public service and the issue of travel, food and lodging. Is there any room for action if it would be a violation of the Treaty to use it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e620	There are many available hands, but the point in my previous answer is that there is not necessarily a match between the competences of those on the outside and the competences demanded by the labour market. There is also a background for us to take quite a large and important step in order to ensure that those who are unemployed have more relevant skills and, in this way, to ensure a job. It's wrong, what the representative of Moxnes says is that young people don't get a lesson. There are more young people now than ever before getting a lesson. Some of it might be associated with the government, among other things. tightened the procurement rules for public procurement, which require us to win public tenders, there is also a need to have apprentices, which was inspired by the civil council here in the city, which had the same requirements in the past. We see that the number of young people outside of work, school and other activities goes down, and we also see that the number of young people on social assistance is falling. We have a room for action in the EEA Agreement. We're also taking advantage of it, and of course the government is still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e629	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e634	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Next week, the climate summit will begin in Katowice, Poland, COP24, where both the Council of State Elvestuen, signed and several others from the Storting will be present. The climate crisis is humanity's greatest common challenge, and if our planet is to be habitable for future generations too, all policies must be aligned with an overall goal of governing within nature's tolerance limits. As the Council of State said in a previous response, the 1.5-degree report has shown this with even greater clarity. We also know that after the notifications made under the Paris Agreement, we are far behind the form. Therefore, from now on, we must use two budgets, and not one, when we discuss how we distribute benefits and burdens in society: the state budget and the climate emissions budget. There's a difference between the two. There will be new government budgets every year. Anyone who has negotiated a government budget knows that what you don't get through for this year can be given a new chance for next year. But the carbon budget is finally, we only have one. When it's used up, it's used up, and with today's consumption, we might have 20 years left. The Labour Party has therefore drawn up in its alternative state budget a concrete proposal for the emission budget by 2030, i.e. the period 2021-2030, with the help of the Environmental DG's figures, and we have found a way of overcoming the target of 40 pst. reduction in the non-quota sector without the use of the flexibility mechanisms included in the EU response mechanism. I therefore have the following questions to the Council of State Elvesuen: Does the Council of State agree that we must look in all budgeting from now on both to the disposal of the money in society, and also to how we dispose of the very limited emissions we still have? And if yes – will he ensure that next year we will have a national climate emissions budget in the context of the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e649	Yes, we need to look at both greenhouse gas emissions and the figures and the economic situation when we are going to make a budget in the years ahead. There are several processes currently in progress that we have to go through. One is that we are in the final negotiations with the EU on the joint implementation of emission reductions by 2030. We need to put that in place, so that we have the common framework. Then it's the follow-up and what's going to happen in Katowice. The 1.5-degree report has changed the discussion and has also changed the situation. It doesn't keep having 2 degrees of heating as a measure, we have to go like the world to 1.5 degrees. That's what the report shows with all its clarity. Then we also have to follow up and show the so-called Talanoa dialog. the discussion on new objectives to be notified by the world country to the UN in 2020. We also have to be part of that discussion. We need to assess our own goal, whether we should strengthen it, and how much, and report to the UN in 2020. Then, when we have an agreement with the EU, the government will present a plan for how to achieve these objectives and have a plan in different sectors. We also have to do that by 2019-2020. We need to improve the climate reporting that we reported for the first time this year – under the Climate Change Act. We're going to do that. We must have an agreement with the European Union. We have to make an assessment of our own goal and plan how we're going to achieve that goal. How it should be concretely designed, what it is going to be, what it is going to be, and what it is going to be, I have to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e659	I am pleased to note that the Council of State and I share the understanding of what needs to be done, but what I am concerned about is a slightly more concrete response to when we can set our own national emission targets, and whether we want to document achievement in relation to fully verifiable targets – not just ambitions, but concrete targets with concrete figures. Will the next government budget be in favour of an emission budget of more or less that type of Workers' Party now proposed in its alternative budget, or should you come back to it? When can we get a concrete answer as to whether this is a method that the Council of State and the government want to follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e666	The progress is that, like all other countries, we will report our new targets to the UN in the first quarter of 2020, and that matter must then go to the Great Britain for the autumn next year. Then we will create a plan for how to achieve these objectives, which will also have to come in 2019/2020, and we will have to look at the framework accordingly. That's the progress we need. There is no doubt that we have the same ambition for both implementation and reductions — which both Norway and other countries need to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e673	There will be follow-up questions – first Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e678	Now, Ola Elvestuen has been the State Council for almost a year without being able to take new climate initiatives, and we hear the answers here that he refers to the process and owes to postponements. Now he's the one who's learned Erna Solberg's word that it's tough to stand up for the climate in a government where people aren't so busy about it. The state budget was a great disappointment and also a reconciliation. The climate did not even get its own headline in what was agreed, which is now to be adopted. But I want to give the government credit for one thing, and that's that in the agreement they are now following the opposition parties and getting palm oil out of biofuels. It is good that we have a decision made, but now the government has to deliver. A year and a half ago, the Stortinget, with Ola Elvestuen's voice, decided that we should get palm oil out of all public tenders. Now, Ola Elvesuen has been the Council of State for over a year without being able to pursue its own policy. Therefore, my question to Ola Elvestuen is: can he confirm that the government is now going to follow the decision of the Stortinget, and that they are going to do it in a better way than the decisions the Stortinget has previously made on palm oil?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e687	First, I notice that the representative believes that we have now been given a decision that we should have 50 pst. the reduction of emissions within transport is not significant. Clearly, our decision to continue the electric car advantages until 2021 is irrelevant. Clearly, the implementation and continuation of carbon capture and storage on the two projects we have does not matter. Also in the state budget we now have, we are intensifying the effort to convert the industry, Enova gets an increase of 344 million. SEK 444 million. with the agreement on the State budget. There are increases in efforts against municipalities in climate action, there are increases in other areas, such as support for environmental technologies. We have an electric car share that was up to 38 pst. during the previous period and there are 70 zero-emission ferries entering Norwegian fjords. In terms of area by area, a policy is being implemented where we are at the forefront, also internationally. So I completely disagree with the description of reality that is being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e694	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e699	When you get a question, at least it might be a good idea to ask that question. My question was about palm oil, if the Council of State is going to follow up on what the Storting is now deciding, unlike what he has done in the past with the other decisions. Then I hear a very self-satisfied state council that boasts of everything you get. I wanted to cheer for every CO 2 that Norway is able to reduce, but the truth is that the cuts that are now being implemented are being implemented because Norwegian climate policy is incredibly based on palm oil. That's why I want to repeat my question to Ola Elvesuen: can he now confirm that the government is going to follow up the decisions the Stortinge will make, in a better way than he has done before, and is he able to implement the decisions made on the question of palm oil?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e709	I'm sorry, but I didn't get a little time. Yes, we are implementing the decisions that have been made, and the concrete decision on public acquisitions is two things to say. One is that the importance of a regulation in the case of public acquisitions is uncertain. The second is that of course we should bring down the palm oil part in public acquisitions. A diffi supervisor is now being developed to provide advice on how to do this. Otherwise we follow up the other parts of the decisions of Stortinget. In addition, the way to bring down palm oil is to raise the investment in advanced biofuels. Several investment decisions are being made. There's more going on. There is a reassessment in 2020 of the tax exemption for biofuels outside the placing on the market requirement and there is an even stronger commitment to zero-emission technology to reduce the amount of fuel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e714	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e719	In a number of areas, Ola Elvestuen has met himself in the door as the Council of State. He's gone away from us having our own national climate target. Where the Workers' Party wants us to make the emission cuts at home, the Council and the Government want an extensive use of quota purchases. We have seen that they have met themselves in the door of the question of palm oil, where the Council of State is unable to implement the decision he himself agreed to promote here in the Stortinget in June 2017, but he has actually also met himself in the door of the question of nature protection. This is an area where I actually thought that this government was going to deliver better with Ola Elvestuen as State Council. For several years now, we have reached a cross-political agreement to increase the appropriations for forest protection and have greater ambitions for it. That's very good. But amazingly, Ola Elvestuen would be the first climate and environment minister in very many years to implement a cut to forest protection. My question to Ola Elvestuen is: What does he think about being the first Environment Minister for many years now to carry out such a cut here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e724	First of all, it's a nice talk I have when I meet myself in the door of climate policy, because there we do. We have taken initiatives in the past, and we are now implementing the policy. As far as forest protection is concerned, we have increased every year since 2013 – from less than 200 million. kr for well over 400 mill. kr. It's an increase in forest protection that we haven't had before. We've doubled the funds spent on forest protection in the last 15 years, from when the red-greens were on. This year we're increasing again. That's 446 million. kr goes to voluntary forest protection and in addition there is an allocation decision against the forests of the country up to 795 million. kr. Forest protection activities are going to increase dramatically also to next year. So the reality description that we're reducing the effort on forest protection is wrong. Here's an allocation. It's also high this year, and then it's a supplement that's important to have increased activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e732	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e737	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. We've asked the Council of State to explain what we know about the frigate legacy so far, because I think it's an advantage in this case that it's as open as possible. Yesterday there were probably several people who were stunned over a state council that went to attack the Norwegian press and the coverage of this matter. It's not just about openness in the process – and I expect the Council of State to come to the Grand Council and explain to the open hall – but my question is of a more principleal nature, because when there are accidents or incidents in Norway, it's a natural part of our democracy that the press often prints its version. Does the Council of State think that it is wrong for the press, in time to come, to publish articles on the reason for the frigate's failure, before the Commission's report is available?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e746	Thank you to the representative for a very good question, a timely and important question. No, it's not like I'm somehow trying to limit the power of the press or the ability to do their work. After a long interview on the matter in my office, I had a conversation with the journalist who was about those things. For me, it's a little important that I have a special role as a government council. What has happened after the event and beyond, we have tried to be as open and informed as possible. But the fact is that the information on the course of events before the accident – in the form of audio log, data record, digital recording and navigation data – was collected from the frigate and delivered to the Marine Commission and the police immediately after the accident, simply because it is those who have been responsible for investigating that kind of accident. Then I can't wonder about the sequence of events. The defense is a party to the case. There are many other parties to the case. It's a loos, it's two tugs, it's a tanker, it's a traffic center. We have earned the most objective discovery of the course of events by the Disaster Commission and the police. The conversation was about my role, where I asked for respect for not speculating on this matter, about the course of events. It's a discussion I would like to include the media. What role should a Council of State play in such a picture? I believe that I am on a safe footing when I say that I do not want to speculate, and that I am waiting for the report from the Disaster Commission to see what the course of events may have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e755	Now maybe the answer to the council has changed, because now he's discussing his role. I don't think anyone thinks he should conclude before the Commission's report is available. We have to wait for that report, but in the meantime, I think it's important that there is openness about the process, that we get a statement in the Stortinge about what we know so far, and that what is also being investigated is the recovery. As far as I know, it's not about any investigation of the recovery so far. So I'm recording that the Council of State is going back on the somewhat grueling play he had yesterday. We can also expect – and we are open – that the press in the coming year can write about the cause of the accident. There's nothing fundamentally wrong with that. Does the Council agree with such an opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e762	Then I must have been unclear, because that's exactly my point. In fact, a prerequisite for the press to be able to be present and check what happened before and after is that they also respect that there are others who have other roles in such an event. The damage commission has its role. The police have a role to play. I feel that it is largely respected that the police in such cases say that for research reasons they cannot comment now. That's exactly what it says right now. The Disaster Commission will have a press conference tomorrow to explain how far they have come. My point in the conversation I had with the journalist was that I also have a role as a Council of State – and that's not to speculate. But I have not in any way tried to limit the press's work on looking at what happened before, during and after the accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e767	It opens for follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e772	Will the Council of State come to the Storting and explain what he knows so far, and will there be a study and an external review of the rescue work itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e777	I have replied that we would like to come to Stortinget and explain it in the open hall – simply because it is important. The course of events is being investigated by many — by the police, to see if there is a criminal offence, by the State's Committee on Transport, to account for the course of events, to allocate responsibilities and to try to find out what happened, by the Defence's own accident commission, which also follows it. In addition, we've put down a group that follows the event, the recovery and all that work, for two reasons: we're going to describe what's going on, and we're going to learn as much of this as possible, because we want it not to happen again. So, yes, I'd like to go to Stortinget to explain this. And yes, we've invested quite a lot of resources to follow along the way so that we can pick up the maximum amount of learning from the event.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e786	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e791	Shall the recovery review be internal, or shall there be an external review?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e796	The marine defense has set up an internal group to follow the recovery, simply to gather their knowledge of what happened, and learn from this course of events. Fortunately, this is something we don't experience very often, and then we're going to learn from this. I do not imagine that anything about this work or the reports that come after such work should be classified or graduated. No, I think this is important knowledge that we should be able to have in the public domain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e804	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e818	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Björn Moxnes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 12, from the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen to the Minister for Justice, Preparedness and Immigration, will be taken up by the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud. Question 14, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. The question is proposed, at the request of the Minister for Transport, moved and answered for question 4, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e836	On the basis of press releases and feedback from both employees and the public on the railways, I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Does the correctness of the fact that there will be a lot of buses for trains on the Sørlandsbanen in the next few years, and in that case, the offer of Traffic Package 1 for the Sørlandsbanen is designed in such a way that this ratio is maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e843	The short answer might be that there is as little bus for trains as possible and as much as necessary. The second could be 'yes'. The starting point is that the NSB, which runs the train on the route today, has also run the bus for trains for periods when it has our work on the route. Railway NOR has planned more infrastructure work on the South Coastal Railways also in 2020 and for years to come. This will cause one to have to organise a bus for a train for a period of time. This is what all the competitors in the competition knew about, and they have therefore designed their offerings in view of it. The planned work has no impact on the competition for the South Transport Package. Traffic settlement would therefore not have been another if SJ Norway or NSB had won the offer. The Railway Directorate has assessed the Go-Ahead supply very well in terms of punctuality, regularity and management of traffic deviations. It helps to have a government that invests in infrastructure and maintains more than one in the past. It will also look at these sections in the years to come, simply because it is the seventh and last decision whether we will over time maintain a qualitatively good enough supply on the Norwegian railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e850	Thanks for the answer. An article on the free trade movement website.no indicates that there are a high number of settings on the Sørlandsbanen. During the period January 2017 to October 2018, 8,102 take-offs were cancelled due to planned work. And it was only in the South West. After all, it is expected that the railway will be upgraded with double tracks during the NTP period. Although the government has not yet committed any funds to this end, the work, together with other development and maintenance, will lead to a lot of work throughout the railway section. Is this also a prerequisite for all the tenderers, so that they have been able to take account of it, or is there anyone who has done it and others have not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e857	All providers have equal access to information. All the providers have been evaluated by the Railway Directorate when it applies to the extent to which they intend to deliver on the offer they have provided. I therefore assume that the Railway Directorate has also assessed all such parts of future work. We have an ambitious national transport plan. We're building railroads like never before. Only in the next year's budget, we're increasing the stakes on rail by almost 9 pst. It is clear that it affects regularity in some areas – simply because the infrastructure is too poor. The maintenance allowance has grown year after year under previous governments. It is imperative to reoccur now, despite significant investments. We're going to have new signalling systems, we're going to upgrade the infrastructure. It is clear that this may be challenging, but I expect all the actors to deliver the supplies they have supplied. They should have had the information they need in order to have made good judgements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e864	As we know, the new operator, Go-Ahead, must operate the South train and have up to two trainsets of type 69, three locomotives of type El-18, four sleepers of type WLAB II, seven trainsets of type 73, etc. etc. This material must be rented by Norwegian train AS. But the rental contract is said not to have been signed. At the same time, we know that Go-Ahead has said that they should make money on increased frequency and more passengers. Does the Minister think that this material is sufficient to satisfy Go-Ahead's demand for both increased frequency and increased number of passengers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e869	It is the company that has provided, which is responsible for keeping up what they have promised in the supply contract. That's what they're measured for. We're going to measure everyone who wins routes on the Norwegian railway, on the supply they've supplied. So that's what I'm referring to. At the same time, in this offer as in everyone else, it is the state that buys train services. They're not commercial driven at all. They're bought by the state. So one of these supply packages has now seen that different companies have assessed how they can increase the business potential, Go-Ahead, for example, through close cooperation with Columbus, which means that they believe they get the passenger base up. It's good if more people do well to take the train as a result of the fact that we've now had an offer round of train sections in Norway. I hope that's a good example of how we get more money from the infrastructure in the future, and not least make sure that we have supplies that passengers are happy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e881	‘The Go-Ahead company won the offer on Sørlandsbana. Follow the Evening Post 19 November scora the better than NSB on one of the 15 quality criteria. On 12 out of 15 quality criteria scora NSB better than Go-Ahead. One of the leading experts in Norway on public procurement, lawyer Robert Myhre, says to Evening Post that «to me it is obvious that the companies do not come out equally. I want to say that the differences are quite large». Why my Council of State was it right to choose the company that will deliver clearly the worst quality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e894	I have not assessed who is offered, because it is up to the Railway Directorate to award contracts. This competition is about both price and quality. When it comes to quality, there were 117 – one hundred and seventeen – minimum competition requirements. Providers that did not meet the minimum requirements – 117 minimum requirements – would not be able to win the competition. In this competition, all the minimum requirements were accepted. This means that suppliers would deliver at least as well as today. The minimum requirement ensures that. After ensuring at least the same level of provision as today through minimum requirements, the Directorate evaluated the quality of services offered within 15 themes. Here, the Directorate-General for Railways uses a score from 0 to 10. A result of 7 and 8 is considered very good and a result of 9 and 10 is considered very good. All three finalists gave answers that were within this range. That's how the Directorate of Railways assesses it, so there's little difference between supply. For price, differences were greater. The result was converted to a price/quality score. These were later merged and weighed with 60 pst. for quality and 40 pst. for the price, and the Railway Directorate got a total result showing that the Go-Ahead pool had the best supply. In the field of procurement technology, this is called the most economically advantageous supply. I'm referring to the fact that the Directorate of Railways has followed up the directions they've had, and not least that they've managed to find a weight with a weight of 60 pst. and the price 40 pst. through the bidding round we've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e903	I also referred to one of the top experts in Norway on public procurement, which indicates that the differences are significant between the different providers. This is a situation in which, as late as 13 September of this year, the Directorate-General for Railways decided to expel Go-Ahead from the entire tendering process, among others. based on an assessment of a possible unhealthy economy in the tender. After that, a meeting was held between Go-Ahead and the Railway Directorate, which, according to the minutes of the meeting, was a negotiating meeting. Now it has been cancelled later by the Council of State, but the person who has conducted the report has at least perceived it as such. When the railway manager was to show who had been offered, it was quoted that ‘it is important to bring new players into passenger traffic in Norway’, i.e. it was important that the NSB should not win. Does the Council agree that there is an objective in itself in the tendering process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e908	The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e913	Then it's a little special that the Council of State has repeatedly raked down on how the NSB operates today, by pointing out the costs for the state, with the operations that have been on the Sørlandsbanen, and by pointing out how much one saves by choosing Go-Ahead in the new offer. The State – at the Council of State – is the owner of the NSB, and then the question is: Why does the State not show greater confidence in the company of which it owns and which delivered better than Go-Ahead on 12 out of 15 quality criteria in a tender where quality would be the most significant, rather than choosing to take in a company that has been a scandal in the United Kingdom and which is unlikely to be a success in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e920	This is a fantastic question. What the representative actually advocates is a political award, based on a political assessment of who is able to deliver the best offers. Fortunately, we do not. On the contrary, we're busy being a professional buyer, where we're basically serious about the way we're offering out, making professional assessments of the offers we're getting, and assigning without the politicians driving with detailed leadership. I'm happy with many things NSB does. Also in this bidding competition, they show that competition is exacerbating them. The NSB also states that they have learned much from this supply competition. So this house, this big business, should be very happy that we're not politicians who run this country and think that there should be political awards of billion-dollar supply contracts. It would give an unprofessional actor from the state's side. We're not going to be, we're going to be a professional actor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e930	Then we can just go-ahead! ‘SJ Norway, which submitted a tender for driving on the southern runway, complained about the Directorate of Railways’ award of the tender to British Go-Ahead. The complaint was handled by the Railway Directorate. In other words, the complaint was dealt with by the same body that awarded the tender. If the Council of State considers it appropriate that the same body awarding tenders also deals with the complaints, and why the complaints are not dealt with, for example. of the Public Acquisition Complaint Document?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e939	The public enters into commercial agreements in the same way as private ones. This is a selection of the public's private autonomy and is therefore not a simple decision under the administrative law. The administrative laws governing complaints do not therefore apply. When it comes to the implementation of competition by the public, it is quite common for complaints to be directly addressed and answered by the same body as the award of the contract. In this case, the complaint was therefore addressed to the Railway Directorate. In complaints about public procurement, there is not the same procedure as in complaints about individual decisions under the administrative law. The first instance in this case is the Railway Directorate, and one does not send the complaint directly to the Public Acquisition Complaint Board, KOFA. KOFA will only handle cases after having received complaints from stakeholders with a legal interest in complaints. The CODA shall deal with complaints of breaches of the procurement laws and associated regulations. Suppliers who so wish stand completely free – standing completely free – to complain to KOFA. Furthermore, there is the possibility of attacking an acquisition in the ordinary judiciary. In this case SJ AB complained to the Railway Directorate, which is in line with normal practice. As the Railway Directorate did not follow up the complaint, SJ did not choose to proceed. The Ministry of Transport cannot therefore see that the handling of complaints in this matter has taken place in any other way than what is normal for public procurement. SJ could have chosen to proceed with the complaint. Then it wouldn't be the Railway Directorate that handled it. They could have complained to KOFA, they could have taken the action before the courts. I register that they have chosen not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e950	I thank the Minister of Transport for the answer and must at the same time say that it is a little complicated, what he has now read, but I understand that there is an opportunity to complain to KOFA, the complaint subject of public acquisitions. My question to the Minister for Transport, however, is whether he is satisfied with the regime that is now in place as regards the award of tenders for rail traffic in Norway — who grants it, and what kind of remedies are available. Based on the answers to the two previous questions, there is much to suggest that what is now happening is a political commission from the government and the ministry. More experts say that this is inexcusable. If I don't go that far, at least I have to say that there is reason to ask some questions about how this works. My question to the Minister for Transport is: is he satisfied with how the system he has rigged for the award of contracts in the railway sector works?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e957	This is not unforgiving. This is the way the public buys a number of services, picked up in a market with multiple actors. This is very neat. So you can always ask yourself, how can the possibilities of complaint be optimised? I don't have very high shoulders because one doesn't have a potential for improvement. I think the public sector has that on a lot of other things, but I think we're going to be very happy that it's the Directorate of Railways that lights up the offer, that assigns, and that the policy, as the representative suggested, is not in the minds of those assessments. Let me just underline one more time: I haven't given political guidance to anyone who's going to get these offers. The representatives should know that, because what they are actually criticising in this process is that I have not done so, and then I refer to the representative Geelsvik as a good example of it. On the contrary, we have ensured that we have carried out this supply process as the state will carry out supply processes, and we will continue to do so in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e966	In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister for Transport a very specific question: does he agree with the Directorate for Railways when they say that it is important for people other than the NSB to win contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e971	The answer to that I already gave. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e979	‘Railway reform should include: ensure better quality for train customers. Go-Ahead, who won the tender on Sørlandsbanen, cut lower on 12 out of 15 quality criteria than NSB. In the North Railway Package it has been announced that the price should be weighted higher than the quality. What is the reason for this, and does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the objective of the rail reform to ensure better quality for train customers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e986	Let me first say that all travellers will be guaranteed a minimum of offer as today. In some traffic packages it is possible to make greater improvements than in other packages. For example, there are different limitations in today's rail network and material park for the different packages. Therefore, the evaluation will be somewhat different, because the framework conditions for the packages are also different. A good buyer has to take care of such relationships. Traffic Package 2 Nord has three award criteria: cost 50 pst., quality 45 pst. and mission understanding 5 pst. In the competitive base of package 2, the quality of supply is first ensured through a large number of minimum requirements, which I referred to was also the case for the South. These are requirements that all providers need to meet. Travelers should therefore be at least as good an offer as today, and the bidding rounds that will be won will ensure a level beyond that. This means that we are involved in ensuring that the travellers get a good rail service. When evaluating the supply of the Nord package, the Directorate-General for Railways will focus on how the provider will get more and more satisfied customers, the understanding of the mission and what offers provide the best relationship between cost and quality. For the requirements that must be met, the minimum, the providers compete for who can deliver them at a cost that gives the most for the money and with the guarantee of winnings in the years to come. This means that we get more railways for money, and we can use them to invest or to keep them on either material or infrastructure. The Railway Directorate would also like to build competence as a basis for upcoming traffic packages by weighting the award criteria differently in Traffic Packages 1 and 2. By making this difference already now, the Railway Directorate will have a better basis for which weighting factor provides the best quality for state resource use in upcoming competitions. The Directorate for Railways has also made it clear that the level of the day, both on the passenger train service and under the conditions under which they are added, is secured by the requirements that must be met by all the providers. We're on our way away from a monopoly. It's been a very long time since the government bought services like this. They've never done that before, except in one case, on the railway. So I don't go around imagining that everything is done perfectly in the first round. The state must also learn from the processes they are through. The differences in Traffic Package 1 and Traffic Package 2 will help the state to become an even better buyer in the future, and to find a reasonable and proper weighting that will bring us to the seventh and last costs, but also improve the quality of the services that passengers receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e999	I thank you for your answer. With what the Council of State now says, and the new turn in the criteria for assigning rail northwards, the Council of State actually releases the cat out of the bag. There's a little bit more honesty in those criteria, because now it's absolutely obvious that price should count more than quality. And then, of course, I'm back to assess the basis of the whole railway reform. As far as I have understood the Council of State earlier – and the former Council of State – it was said that it was the passengers who were to be in the center, it was quality and service it was to be competed for. Everything else was equal. One should have the same rails, the same train, etc. Operators were supposed to compete for quality and service. Is it so that the track, that quality will apply on Norwegian railway lines, such as: The Council of State answered me on a question on November 20th, shall no longer count as much as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1010	I thought it was nice to be in question time, but it would be nice if the representatives listened to what I actually said. And what I answered – on the previous question and on previous questions today – is that the minimum requirement is that we keep the minimum standard of the day. And on top of that, we're weighting additional quality. We did that in the Railway Package South, we will do that in the Railway Package North. So it means something to what extent you have the ability to get the offer, if you can deliver quality beyond today's standard, beyond the minimum level. This means that there is still a rail reform that is about providing better quality services to those who are willing to travel by train. Not least, it makes sure that we give incentives to those companies that compete for these packages actually try to get more people to take the train, because it's effective when we've built up this infrastructure anyway. I have been very clear on this in all my answers, and it is fine if the representatives also listen to the answers, and do not decide on the questions in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1017	I can promise I'll listen, and I'll read. That's exactly why we're here today with all the questions to the Council of State. Last October, before the tender round on Sørlandsbanen, Dagfinn Berge, who is responsible for competition on Norwegian rails, said: ‘It is not how far down a train company can squeeze the price that determines who wins the routes. Price shall count 40 per cent, quality and consideration of employees 60 per cent.» This he asked to be believed in. We see what the result is. We who follow this play must then conclude that it is political leadership that has now overruled the professionals in the directorate. SV will now demand that the further calls be put on hold, in the light of all the criticisms that have been made. Will the Council of State consider that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1033	I heard the representative start his question by saying that he listens after I have answered. Then he concludes the question – and confirms that he has not done so. I haven't given political leadership to anyone who gets these offers. No political guidance has been provided for those who are allocated these services. In fact, the Directorate-General for Railways has made a professional assessment of the criteria, both of cost and of quality. They have done so in these offerings, and they have chosen them. So here I've got a hint from other representatives that we should perhaps have introduced more policy into this. I'm not going to do that. We're not going to do it in upcoming offers, and we haven't done it in her that we've already been out there. Let me just define it once and for all – and I repeat it over and over again: there are no political leadership for the allocation of the South Railway Package – will not be done on the North Railway Package. I am now considering that the representatives have actually found out what I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1053	This question has been raised. So we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1063	This question, from Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1068	‘The size has agreed to establish a national framework for wind power to help mitigate conflicts and provide predictability for local communities and builders. According to the Directorate-General for the Environment's thematic reports, there is insufficient knowledge of which areas are of sufficient value. It is also doubtful whether you have enough knowledge of the consequences for travel and tourism. What does the Council of State do to ensure an up-to-date knowledge base so that the defaulting assumption of conflict mitigation and predictability is met?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1075	I want to answer on behalf of the Minister of Oil and Energy. The national framework for wind power was widely endorsed by the Storting in connection with the treatment of the energy message. It is an initiative to strengthen the location of new wind turbines to the best-owned areas. Work is largely about establishing an up-to-date and common knowledge base on the effects of wind power. A total of 20 thematic reports are being developed. Based on this, authorities shall point out areas that are most suitable for wind power. Of course, wind quality, network capacity and different environmental and societal conditions will be important here. NVE leaders worked at this stage and will complete a report by 1 April 2019. Other agencies and stakeholders also participate, and in particular I would like to stress that the Directorate for the Environment is actively involved. When the Ministry of Oil and Energy receives the proposal, it will be sent on a broad hearing. There will also be a regional recording meeting to make it easier for local and regional actors to make recordings. In this work, there will certainly be themes where there is a lack of knowledge, and there will also be important information for further work. Work on a national framework will take place throughout the country, and of course it will be about actions at a somewhat superior level. The concession treatment of each specific wind power project will be as at present. It is first here that the local effects can be evaluated in detail. All potential projects shall be thoroughly addressed on their impact. In parallel with this work, we now see a large expansion of wind power in Norway. That is natural, as the time limit for obtaining an electric certificate expires in 2021. In addition, costs have fallen so much that more actors now say that they will develop wind power projects even without subsidies. This also makes the resistance to wind power more evident. I don't think we can entirely avoid conflicts related to wind power, and like the oil and energy minister, I think that the grip on managing the location of the overall best areas will be even more important now when wind power becomes more profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1092	Thanks for the answer. It is right that the objective of the framework plan is to have a common knowledge base before selecting the best areas. My concern is that in its thematic report, the Environment Directorate writes that they do not have sufficient knowledge of the long-term impact of the establishment of open-air wind turbines. They write in their report that they do not have sufficient knowledge to determine which concrete, larger, coherent natural areas have the highest value and they cannot contribute to proposals for specific areas that can be excluded from the national framework. Then we have a problem. My question to the Council of State is: One has said that one should secure a wide range of hearings afterwards, when the proposal from the NVE has come, but one should not have involved both the population and the community when the knowledge base of the Environment Directorate, among others. when outdoors and nature are so thin?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1099	I refer to the previous answer. The Environment Directorate actively contributes to the work currently being done and knowledge is developing in the process. The way we often involve actors other than the professional authorities is through hearing processes, based on a professional basis. That one has a professionally founded basis to give his recordings, I believe gives good decision-making processes, also locally. The hearings often favour new or updated knowledge, which is the basis for the government's further work on this. That's what I'm sure will happen in this game as well. So I mean that the process that it's set up can completely take care of it. But we're concerned that we're going to come out with the best possible knowledge base. We also ensure that we have much more detailed reviews in connection with the concession treatment of individual applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1106	In this case, I and the Council of State may be somewhat confused as to whether it is disturbing that the Environment Directorate, which is to contribute to the knowledge-gathering and improvement of the knowledge base, clearly states that they do not have sufficient knowledge base for what is an important assessment when establishing wind farms, simply the concern for outdoor life and related natural areas. I have a question that goes on the number of areas that you actually have to sit with, because the NVE has suggested that one should be left with 15-20 areas. I haven't seen that the Council of State responsible has said, but my Council of State, which is standing here on behalf of the government today, that one should be left with 15-20 larger areas of the 43 that are being analyzed now? In this case, is there a defensive approach, given that there is a large amount of knowledge gap?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1113	I don't intend to clarify it now, simply because it is a work that is currently going on and that is to be landed in the spring of 2019, and I thought it would be unwise, both by me and by the government, to conclude before we have seen the professional basis for the assessments we are going to make. So the answer to that will be that we have to look at when the professional basis comes. I do not intend to ignore anything, nor am I going to confirm anything around it now, simply because the government also makes its assessments based on a professional basis, which is now being prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1118	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1126	‘Open access to research results is a good thing, but Plan S stimulates considerable reaction and debate. There is great uncertainty about the consequences. The Director of the Research Council was first negative to a new hearing, but has now opened up to this. What will the Council of State do to ensure that a decision on Norwegian participation in Plan S has sufficient professional and political basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1133	The government is committed to making research more accessible by stimulating more open research dissemination and more open data. This is also a goal that the Storting has joined several times in the last ten years. Open access is important for companies that are in transition, i.e. getting the latest, the latest and up-to-date research. But it is also important for our doctors, for our teachers – it is important that all the professions in our society are professionally up-to-date. Public funded research should be available to the public in order to be used by all. This is a goal that I feel many people are behind, both politicians and researchers. Today, we have a dysfunctional market in the publishing industry. To a large extent, this is a monopoly, and public money helps to strengthen the profits of publishers rather than that this money could have been used for more research. An example of this is the RELX Group, where Elsevier is a large part of the business. They had a profit of 10 billion in 2017. kr and a profit rate of 37 pst. Much of that profit comes from taxpayers' pockets, and 10 billion. kr is approx. an annual budget for the Research Council. Norway alone spends 350 million. kr for journal subscriptions per year. The Research Council is part of what is called the coAlition S, which is working on Plan S, a plan aimed at publishing publicly funded research open to the public. I fully support the Research Council in that work. As the representative also says, there has been some concern in the sector about the implementation of Plan S. I understand that. Change may be difficult, and last night the coalition behind Plan S published a guide on how to interpret the plan, with proposals also for flexible transitional arrangements for this implementation. They propose to continue to support publication in one of the following ways: publication in immediately open-access journals publication in subscription journals, but with simultaneous deposit and making available of articles in an open and searchable archive publication in subscription journals forming part of a transitional agreement I see it as constructive, and I think that these transitions will make it easier for our researchers, who have been worried. The Research Council will also carry out a call for proposals during the winter period, so that the sector can be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1156	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. We agree that this is important to achieve, but at the same time there is considerable uncertainty both internationally and nationally about the consequences of the actual transition to open publication, and the Workers' Party believes it is important to identify and discuss it as soon as possible. Then there are some quite obvious obstacles in the way that have to be passed. The councils were involved in this with costs. My next question is just about that, the extra resources that need to be made available in order for the academy and the public to transform into a practice with completely open access to research results. What is it likely that this will cost during a transitional period? Who takes the bill that arises along the way? And does the Council have a plan for whether and, if so, how to cover the additional costs that will come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1163	Today, as I also said in my answer, we do not spend insignificant money on subscriptions. We spend a lot of money on quality assurance of research projects. A consultation on the implementation of Plan S shall now be held. There, our sector will be given the opportunity to express itself both on what they are concerned about, and on what are positive aspects of this. I feel that we have a sector that is behind the goal, and then we also have to discuss through this consultation that is to take place, the challenges that lie there. But I think what the coalition is now presenting is constructive. It adds up to a smooth transition, and I see very positively the round that the Research Council will have now during the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1170	Thank you again. Professors Tore Slatta and Helge Rønning stated in Khrono on 27 November that Plan S should be investigated and that an investigation should include an assessment of how incentives for publication in Norwegian professional journals need to be integrated into Plan S in order to avoid an accidental and further anglification of teaching and dissemination at Norwegian universities. Does the Council have any views as to whether Plan S will have any impact on the position of the Norwegian language in teaching and dissemination at the institutions of the Norwegian research system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1175	We see a development in the academy that is moving towards a larger use of English at the expense of Norwegian. There is a development that has gone over time, which is quite great in terms of both master's degrees and doctoral thesis. The Minister of Culture and I actually had a seminar not long ago on that very topic. I am more uncertain about the link between the challenge that the Academy is using English to a greater extent, and Plan S, for this is about publishing and openness around the publication and not primarily about the language in which the article is written. In these international journals, English is widely used, and it will probably be in the future as well. Plan S is about having looked at the goal, which is open access, that we should spend our money on research and quality assurance and not on financing those who are behind the big publishers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1185	«Tuesday 29 November, students demonstrate against the Government's amendment of the Student Support Conversion Scheme. This has consequences for students who do not complete a full degree or change direction along the way in the studies, and it will be a disincentive to get more continuing education. It is uncertain what effect the change will have on student penetration. What kind of research does the Council of State have to claim that this cut in the grant of 256 million? Do you want to increase the implementation rate among the students?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1192	Let me first say that the change in the conversion scheme does not imply a reduction in scholarships for students who are conducting degree studies. These students will still have to convert 40 pst. of the student loan for scholarships. The change also does not affect the level of student support during their education. Everyone will be paid as much in support as today – in fact more, since the government's proposal involves an increase of NOK 2700 from the previous to the current academic year. The level of training aid has increased each year during this government. The annual support payment to students today is 11 600 kroner higher than it would be without the Solberg government, the Left and Christian People's Party's bets on the student support. So to what the representative Henriksen asks about: the research basis for claiming that the change in the conversion scheme will lead to increased implementation. The general research on student incentive schemes supports the fact that tested incentives usually produce the effects you can expect them to give. An impact study of the so-called turbos grant scheme in the 1990s showed that that scheme had a marked positive impact on student implementation in that target group. I would like to stress that the proposal on the table is not a turbos grant, it is not a requirement that the degree must be implemented in a normal time to convert the loan into a grant. I believe that the change in the conversion scheme proposed by the government gives students a clear message that it will pay to complete degrees. Conversion to scholarships is significantly higher for those who complete degrees than for those who do not. When the incentive has such a simple and clear message, I believe that the probability is high that it will eventually give an increased implementation of degrees. I would also refer to both the Productivity Commission and an expert group that investigated new funding system for the university and higher education sectors in 2015, which recommended making changes to the study funding scheme, where the point was to give students stronger incentives to complete degrees. The Government's proposal for a change to the conversion scheme is a follow-up to those recommendations. The current conversion system was introduced with a justification that is quite parallel to the one we now have to make changes to the scheme. It was the Stoltenberg I government that proposed to introduce today's conversion scheme, where 40 pst. the student loan is converted into a scholarship after passing the examination. The argument was that the scheme should stimulate the increased implementation of education. ‘Both society and individual students have an interest in conducting studies at a normal time’, says the 2001-2002 budget proposal, the last of the Stoltenberg I government, which concluded: ‘The grant goes to those who benefit from study time in a good way.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1208	The Workers' Party is clear that we do not support the government's tightening up of student support, and believes that it could punish students who do not complete a full degree or who change their studies along the way. What we really need is a discussion of what are the reasons why some students fall from, and how we can best help them complete. When we read the state budget, it seems that the government needed money to fund other investments and found the 256 million. kr in study support. Efforts should be made to improve the quality of studies, improve student follow-up and a wide range of other measures. We think it's a little strange that the government landed on this as one of the most important steps to get more students to complete. It is tempting to ask – when they have been in contact with different research environments: what research environments have you been in contact with regarding exactly this specific change, and what has been the response to the proposal from them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1215	I must refer to my previous reply, which I referred to both the Productivity Commission and this group of experts. But as the representative also says, there are other things that also need to be done to improve implementation. The government has also been concerned about this. That is why we have called for pedagogical merit systems by 2019 at universities and colleges. We demand pedagogical competence from those who are employed or who are going to move up. We have started to give students a mentoring order. We've had a real growth in student support in all budgets adopted by the Solberg government, and we've presented a long-term research and higher education plan with a total of 250 million. kr over four years for quality measures in higher education. This is among several measures that the government is targeting, in order to improve the implementation of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1220	I was not aware that neither the Productivity Commission nor the expert group had considered the concrete proposal for a change to the conversion scheme. I record that the Council of State has not mentioned any specific research environments or disciplines that have made a clear notification of this change in study support. We see that there are many who fear the consequences of this particular change. The OECD figures — often referred to by the government — do not provide a good basis for claiming that cutting the grant will lead to less non-response among Norwegian students. And we saw, when we dealt with the vocational school report in Stortinget, that the government wrote that the number of people who fell off is not good enough information to introduce measures because it doesn't say anything about the reasons. Here, then, the conversion system is changed without going into the reasons why different students stop or change their studies. What I'm asking is, is why the government hasn't done more to figure out the reasons why students stop before introducing such a controversial measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1229	I believe there are two things in this matter that it is important to note. First of all, students who are studying now get paid more money while they're students than they've done before. The second is — as the representative also pointed out — the OECD report, which shows that only a little over six out of ten starters of higher education are implementing a degree. We have free education in Norway, we have one of the best student funding systems through the Loan Fund, but it is important that we get the implementation rate up. Of course, we have to take different measures. But it's like economic incentives that we introduce them because we think they work. We're doing this now because we want more people to carry out the degree they're starting, just as we've introduced economic incentives for those who choose to start teacher training, implement it and enter the teaching profession – because we think it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1239	‘29. In November, thousands of students are gathered to demonstrate against the government's scholarship. Since 2013, a phased 11-month study grant has costed more than 700 million. krona, but at the same time, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have given the students the targeted cut; in travel tips, increased interest rates and cut the scholarship percentage, of well over 900 million. krones. If the calculation is correct, the government has saved several hundred million dollars at the expense of the students. Why does the government use the students as a balancing item to make the budget go up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1246	The total appropriations for grants through the Loan Fund have grown significantly during this government. The government budget proposal for 2019 is nearly 700 million. kr higher than in 2013, in which case it is corrected for price growth during the period. The real growth in scholarship costs from 2013 to 2019 is at just under 7 pst. The government has been particularly concerned about improving the conditions for students while they are actually under education. That is why, year after year, we have provided real growth in student support at a total cost of about 700 million. kr. The government’s prioritisation of real growth in the basic rate and gradual escalation to 11 months of study support have led to an annual study aid payment today of NOK 11 600 higher than it would have been without these efforts. In the current academic year, a student in higher education will receive NOK 2700 more paid than in the previous year when the government's proposal is decided upon. In implementing the final step in the escalation of 11 months of student support, the students will receive a real increase in support of a further NOK 2 750. It is true that there have been some re-priorities in the field of study funding within the growth that has been in total appropriations during the period. Introduction of interest on late payments with an annual estimated savings of 341 million. kr was proposed by the Stoltenberg II Government in the 2014 draft budget. If we keep it outside, cut and bets have gone to zero. The savings measures in the field of study finance have been targeted in particular at those who are required to repay the study loan. The student loan is not repaid until the students have completed their education. Then they're no longer students, and in a short time most will be in full employment with normal income. I don't think it's unreasonable that those who have completed their education and largely serve well are involved in financing increased support payments for those who are students here and now. As regards the proposed change in the 2019 budget conversion scheme, the point of the action is to stimulate the increased completion of higher education degrees, which will be good for individual students, but also important for society as a whole. The higher the implementation of degrees, the less grant costs the state will save on the change. During this government, the students have more to route with, and that is the opposite of being a balancing post. We have prioritised students in the educational phase rather than those who are at work and who are therefore in the reimbursement phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1261	I would like the Council of State to be clearer and more honest in its answer and not hide behind statistics and so far away from what I think is the reality of this matter, that the cuts to the government exceed the efforts of students. It is clear that the government does not see this either. That's probably what's behind the growing mind of the students, and the background for thousands to demonstrate tomorrow. I believe that it is not unreasonable for either the students or the opposition in Stortinget to point out that the government only sends the bill to the other end of the study period – it is the students themselves who have to pay for the bets that the government boasts. I would like to give the Council of State another opportunity to respond a little more clearly to what I think is the reality: can the Council of State answer yes or no whether it is right that the cuts in the State budget have been greater than the efforts to increase support for studies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1268	It is possible to go through the cut for the loan box post by post. For example, there was an interest rate increase of 0.35 percentage points in the 2017 budget, with a savings of 366 million. kr. It's what I and maybe the representative Tvedt Solberg pay for because we've studied. We've been using the amazing well-being it's with free higher education, we've been using the amazing institution Loan Fund, and now that we're in full employment, we're paying a little more when we pay back the interest on that loan. The 366 million. NOK in savings on the 2017 budget, I do not remember that the Workers' Party also reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1273	What I think is a little special in this matter is to notice that there is a completely different rhetoric and a completely different attitude from the government, and especially the Left in government, to students and to studies. When, for example: The introduction of 11 months of study support was celebrated, and it was important to amend a scheme that was unfair. Then it was important that everyone should have the opportunity to learn, that one should not depend on the family's economy. This budget has proposed a grant cut to balance its own budget, and it is with quite the opposite rhetoric. Then the Left and the Government are no longer concerned with fair welfare schemes and that there should be equal opportunities to study. I believe this is now action against non-response, quite the opposite of what the students and the Norwegian student organisation point out. What I'm asking is why this was important to the Council of State only then a solemn introduction of eleven months of study support, and that one has forgotten this when a user cut off the grant scheme to balance the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1280	The introduction of 11 months of study support, I believe, is a very important measure to enable people to carry out their studies. It was important for the Left in opposition, it has been important for the Left in government. That is why we are now also presenting a budget in which we are increasing by another week in the escalating towards eleven months of study support. There are two things the representative has to notice. First of all, it's when you're a student, you need the money, and that's exactly what the government delivers. We're delivering a real boost to those who are students here and now. So we know that we have some implementation challenges. When only six out of ten that start on a degree, implement the degree, there's cause for concern. We have free education in Norway. I don't think it's unreasonable that we're now making some financial incentives for more students to actually carry out what they're starting at. That's what we're doing with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1289	‘In the East Police District, the Chief of Police has transferred the posts dedicated to the field of animal crime to the investigation of other areas of crime. The size has earmarked these positions through the State budget. Does the Council of State think it is right that the police district should deprioritise what the Stortinget has earmarked?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1296	I am concerned that the police meet targets and requirements within the framework and guidelines set by corruption and government. It is the district police officer who has to dispose of resources in the most efficient and appropriate way, as needed, in order to achieve the objectives. The police shall follow any designation given for special purposes. Police officers shall ensure that resources are allocated as necessary. It also involves responsibility for re-prioritising resources when necessary. The highest priority shall be given to the most serious criminal cases, such as sexual offences and acts of violence. I also refer you here to the Riksadvokat's Guidelines for the Police Criminal Procedures, which say that this type of case should have the highest priority. I have been informed that the East Police Commissioner has temporarily chosen to re-prioritize resources from animal police to deal with rape cases. Two district investigators have been assigned to work with rapes for up to eight weeks. The scheme is not meant to be a permanent solution. The background is too long to deal with rape cases and issues related to sexual abuse and violence in close relationships. East police districts state that the temporary re-priority of two investigators will be completed in the first half of December. I believe the chief of police has carried out the necessary repriorities. I understand that for short periods of time, there are repriorities from animal protection matters to issues relating to sexual abuse and violence in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1307	Let me thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that it is quite clear that this is a temporary re-prioritisation, and that this temporary period will end in the first half of December, as the Council of State replied. I believe that the establishment of animal police has been a success story, as the government has been in the front line to get introduced. It is then important that what the Stortinget also prioritises, and what the government has proposed, is followed up. I feel sure, of the answer that came, that one understands the importance of prioritizing animal law. But is it that the Council of State can confirm that, in the future, too, there will be a strong focus on the desire to combat animal crime, precisely by using animal police and the project on which the government has been at the forefront?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1318	I can confirm that. This is an important priority, and there are leaders from Stortinget that the government will of course follow up. In this police district, there are three posts related to animal protection criminality — it is actually a little more than the designation should be provided — although there are now two investigators who are being pulled out for eight weeks. So it'll probably always be that things vary, and I imagine that we can get a situation with a serious animal crime case where the chief of police has to do the opposite, namely pick up investigators from another type of crime to solve an acute problem that arises there. It is within what is the freedom of action of a police officer, I believe, but the overall leadership is clearly firm: animal crime matters must be prioritised according to what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1327	I am very, very pleased with the clear speech of the Minister of Justice. There are very many who are very happy that we have established animal police in a number of police districts, and that the goal of the government is to establish animal police in all the police districts of the country. I am also very pleased with what the Council of State answers, that, especially in extremely demanding cases, it must also be possible for the police officers to bring in investigators to supplement the work against animal crime when needed. I'm very pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1334	Yes, I think we can finish this round by saying that what the Storting has granted is prioritised according to that. We're at the beginning in the field of animal law, and there's a lot we're going to gain from experience when we're now working on rolling this out all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1344	I have the following questions: ‘In the context of the reform of the police, many offices have been closed. The municipality of Hemnes, Stranda and Aurland was encouraged to maintain their offices. The result we see now; Stranda and Aurland keep the same number of officials, while for the municipality of Hemnes, the result is that there is only one policeman left against the previous five, and only open 8 hours a week. Does the Council of State consider this to be in keeping with the intention of the decision on the maintenance of the County Council of Hemnes, and will the Council of State do something about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1353	The representative asked similar questions in the past, then as a question to the Minister of Justice and Defence Sylvi Listhaug at that time. The government is concerned that the police have the framework conditions they need to provide good services to the population. With the near-police reform, the government has made absolutely necessary and important choices for the police of the future. Today, we have more robust police districts and operational centres and larger trade unions that provide good conditions for detecting and combating crime. We have established police contacts for all the municipalities of the country, so that the good local anchoring and contact that the police have traditionally had with municipal partners and the population can be further developed. The close police reform concerns more than the organisational structure, the number of posts and the number of staff in an office. Police districts are now implementing quality measures in the reform. They implement new work tools, new working methods and improved work processes. They are targeted at prevention and have targets and demands in criminal proceedings and response times when serious incidents occur. Without a new structure with fewer police districts, fewer services and larger trade unions, we would not have been able to implement the quality measures that are drivers in order to achieve better results. A police force providing good police services as a whole cannot be assessed on the basis of the number of employees at one LEN’s office. Bonding a given number of posts up to a specific loner's office does not provide sufficient flexibility. It is the police chief, in this case in Northern Ireland, who has to dispose of the resources in the most efficient and appropriate way possible, so that the people of the municipality of Hemnes feel safe and feel that they have a good police service. Opening hours at the loner offices have not the meaning that it used to have. The presence is about more than an open door and a person in a police uniform behind a barrier. Those who live in Hemnes, in Korgen, in Hattfjelldal and elsewhere in Nordland are not awarded their local Länsmannskontoret. Depending on what the case is, it's being investigated by specialists in Bodø, taken care of by patrols from Mo in Rana Police Station or resolved in dialogue with the police contact of the municipality of Hemnes. It's also so that near-police can be delivered from physical distance. Digital platforms strengthen the police’s ability to detect online crime. I've traveled a lot in the police districts this fall. I get a lot of feedback that the new structure and the new way of working is working. But I also get feedback that it takes time for the new working methods to be fully integrated into the police. We must remember that new working methods are changes that are largely implemented this year, although the Storting adopted the reform several years ago. The rapporteurs express their satisfaction. The third evaluation report will be presented in February next year. I look forward to it and will use it in the further work of following up the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1370	Thanks for the answer. The question really depended on what is the result, on how to close the janitor's office. In this case, you have actually received support in an appeal to maintain a loner's office. What you're left with in Hemnes is actually similar to what they have in the municipalities that have shut down their county offices: a police contact. The term has been used for a very long time – at least I mean it – by continuing to call this a loner's office, with one policeman and a limited opening time. Prime Minister Solberg stood at this pulpit last Wednesday and boasted of the bet on the police and the case of two policemen per thousand inhabitants. If you had it in Hemnes, that's equal to nine policemen. I understand, of course, that doesn't mean you're going to have two on average at all of the cannons' offices, and you're using resources around you, but it's a pretty big leap from one to nine, which was the goal. Does the Council agree that it is to make the concept far just to have one employee again, when you had five before and maybe should have nine?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1379	Police reform is being implemented for all practical purposes this year in the various police districts. I believe that we must give the police officers great flexibility in combating crime. The important thing is that the police force is there to face the new and often very serious crime that has developed in recent years. Some of the crimes that we used to have a lot of are going down, and some of the other serious crimes are growing strongly. At that time, police officers must have the freedom to reorganize resources to tackle crime. I think it is important to maintain the decisions of Stortinget, but exactly how many people there are going to be at each of the officers' offices, the police officers must have authority to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1386	Police reform should contribute to a more visible and accessible police force, not least on the prevention side. At least we don't get that in Hemnes. In October, the security officer of the Nordland Police District, Vegard Kristiansen, moved out to NRK Nordland with the following message: ‘After the introduction of the near-police reform, several police officers experience enormous labour pressure due to a high number of jobs and insufficient resources.’ In Bodø, who has 50 000 inhabitants, he is concerned about his colleagues. In the interview with NRK Nordland, he says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Many choose to get sick because they are worn out.’ Kristiansen says that after the close police reform was introduced, the number of missions has increased significantly, without the addition of more police officers. He is now afraid of people's confidence in the police and also believes that they need to give too much priority to exorcism because of this. Does it not worry the Council of State that so many feel that the police reform has not produced the results you want? You weaken the sense of security for the inhabitants, not just in Hemnes. What does he want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1403	The police reform has been implemented this year. Then I think you should understand that it will take some time before you get all the qualitative effects you want. There is no doubt that the police, all police districts, have been given increased resources, more policemen, under this government. You can't ignore that. I also believe that we are not so bad at all. In the 2017 survey of the police, 84 pst replied. in the Nordic region that they have very great or quite great confidence in the police. That's an increase from 80 pst, respectively. in 2015 and 81 pst. in 2016, and that is actually a little better than the national average. I think you have to be a little realistic about how many standing patrols and policemen you can have in the whole country. A 24-hour patrol all year round needs 18 police officers in principle. It's not realistic to have it everywhere. And presence can be exercised in many ways, including: online.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1415	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: ‘The figures for the withdrawal of funds from criminals in the first quarter of 2018 were only 38,7 million. kroner, which was a decrease of 69 pst. since 2014. In order to strengthen this effort, an investigation has been carried out on actions for better cooperation between the relevant departments, which came into force in 2014, and a civil law withdrawal investigation, which was sent at the hearing on 15 February 2017. When and how will the Council of State present the follow-up to the proposals in these surveys to the Grand Duchy, and what action will it take to increase the withdrawal of funds from criminal environments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1424	Retirement is an important tool in the fight against crime, and economic gain is a key driving force behind much of both economic and organised crime. Effective withdrawal reduces the prospects for economic gain and thus also the motivation for committing criminal acts. If the perpetrator retains the advantage, it may also undermine respect for the law and tempt others to break it. There is therefore a risk that the general preventive effect of the criminal offence will be absent. In addition to the prevention of the recruitment of criminals, it is also reasonable to withdraw the proceeds of criminal offences. Crime shall not pay off. There is therefore no doubt that effective withdrawal rules are important. For the sake of order, I will also correct the amount referred to in the question. The police directorate has informed that the total amount collected in 2017 was approximately 201 million. kr. In Norway, detention is a general rule in criminal proceedings, and the issue of detention is treated as part of the criminal proceedings. An investigation on civil proceedings was sent at a hearing within the deadline of 15 February 2017, as the representative of Bohemia refers to. The investigation provides a good basis for assessing the scope for action under the Constitution and international human rights to develop a civil law enforcement framework. The legal proposal in the investigation itself needs to be further worked on, and it does not provide a basis for coming back to the Stortinget with a concrete proposal for a change of rules until further investigation has taken place. The issue is demanding, and it could take time to develop a well-functioning civil law legislation adapted to the Norwegian legal tradition. The investigation sent to the hearing points to some weaknesses in the rules of criminal law on withdrawal. As a first step in the further follow-up, it would be appropriate to consider the need for changes to the specific criminal law rules. It would then be natural to carry out a detailed assessment of the follow-up to the civil custody investigation. It is only then that you will have sufficient basis to see the need for additional instruments. As a first measure, the Ministry will assess the need for changes in the criminal law rules that can help to make the detention of offenders more effective. As part of the follow-up to the Action Plan on Economic Crime from 2011 to 2018, a report was finalised in 2014, to which the representative of Bohemia referred. The report contains recommendations to achieve a more effective withdrawal of values related to criminal offences. The working group behind the report proposed inter alia: the establishment of a nation-wide entity, the ultimate objective of which is to focus on withdrawal. A separate cross-border unit for criminal prosecution, organised under Ecocrime, was proposed. Effective confiscation of profits generated by crime is, as mentioned, important in order to help reduce the motivation for committing criminal acts. I expect, among other things, to the work now being done in the Police Directorate will produce results in the long term, including in the form of more efficient use of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1439	I thank the Council of State for the answer. To give an example, the Oslo police tell me that when they work with e.g. settings in which there is a high level of drug turnover can capture large amounts of cash held by individuals and which are obviously derived from drug trafficking. However, once it has been seized, these persons are required to return, and they must, as a general rule, be linked to a sentence that has been convicted and which has more than six years of criminal sanctions. Of course, this will not apply to those who confiscate money from on the street. So there is a need for improvements on the part of the Council of State, either in the provisions of the criminal law itself, for example. enhanced withdrawal – if they are to be better used – or in the civil law track, to which this investigation points.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1448	On a number of occasions, the representative, Mr Bøhler, has shown a great and commendable commitment to the fight against recrime in Oslo. I look very seriously at the situation in Oslo, and that is why I have also asked both the Oslo Police District, the Police Directorate and the National Attorney to make proposals to combat gang crime. One of the proposals that has been made includes: The Riksadvokat, who is on my table, is looking at the rules of withdrawal in the criminal proceedings. So it's on my table, we'll look at that, and it'll be followed up. After we've looked at what we can exploit within that framework, we'll come back to the civil law trail.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1453	I also thank you for the additional response, and for the fact that the Council of State is planning to follow up improvements in criminal law. It's important. There have been different plays and a lot of talk about taking expensive watches and bling blings, etc. This is not to be done without changes in the law. So it's positive, and I hope the Council of State will come back to it relatively quickly. With regard to the issue of the investigation of civil detention, it is stated that there should not be punishment in the sense of the law, but that it should restore the situation before the criminal offence, for example: knows that someone who's made $1 million. Drug trafficking has to return the million regardless of the criminal case itself. It is a law in which those who have made the investigation are based on experience from Ireland and, among other things, The World Bank recommends in its work on such matters. So I hope the Council of State will also go further on that track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1460	That's what we're going to look at. We believe that there are some opportunities for withdrawal in improving the criminal justice track, which it is important to explore properly and early. For us, this is not one measure isolated; it is a major part of a comprehensive fight against recriminalism that begins with juvenile punishment, youth follow-up, juvenile detention, the fight against violence in close relations and the strengthening of various police activities in the east of Oslo – not least – but which also involves allocations to Kripos and Ecokrim, and which require us to look at different laws, different rules and different means the police have for it. But I can assure the representative that we will also look at the civil law trail of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1470	This question, from the representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen to the Minister for Justice, Preparedness and Immigration, will be raised by the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1475	‘There has been a process on the future organisation of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress [[NKVTS]] How are the Councils of State to ensure that the efforts of the Ministry of Justice and Security in this field are taken into account through a wide range of professionally complex knowledge environments in a future organisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1482	Good and relevant research is crucial for policy-making. Research on violence in close relations and sexual abuse is a significant part of the Ministry of Justice's research efforts. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, was established in 2004, and the Centre is financed mainly by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The background to the establishment was a desire to strengthen research into the field of violence, assault and trauma. The Centre is one of the two research institutions implementing the Ministry of Justice and Defence research programme on violence in close relations. The programme has a total cost framework of 50 million. kr over five years and continuing from 2019 to 2024. The programme has considerably strengthened the knowledge base and the design of new efforts is based on a good foundation. NKVTS is currently organised as a subsidiary of Unirand AS, which is owned by the University of Oslo. The University has announced that Unirand AS will be terminated. This is why the Ministry of Health and Welfare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Justice and Defence, is now working to find a future organised anchoring of the NKVTS. In assessing the future organisational anchoring, the importance of creating a stable and appropriate framework for a strong and forward-looking knowledge environment in the field of violence and trauma will be strong. Furthermore, the consideration that violence and traumatic stress are a multidisciplinary professional and research environment must weigh heavily. The need for a continued broad and multidisciplinary approach is important considerations that must also be taken into account in a new organisational anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1491	The Council of State and the Ministry of Justice should have a special ownership of the work against violence in close relations. NKVTS is an important knowledge bank for the fight against violence and abuse. Their work helps to increase the quality of our overall effort to combat violence and abuse and is therefore important for political decisions to be taken in the light of knowledge. As the Council of State also mentions, the Ministry has initiated and financed its own five-year research programme, which has now been proposed for five new years. NKVTS has played a central role in this. Given the Ministry's obvious interests in the fact that we have a good professional environment related to violence in close relations, can the Council of State further explain the involvement of the Ministry of Justice in the process of clarifying a new organisation of the NKVTS?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1498	The Ministry of Justice is involved. It is a working group of representatives from the three departments concerned who assess how the organisation should take place after the University of Oslo gave the message they gave. For us in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, it is important that quality and overall quality are respected. We have in many ways no principles, we have a relatively pragmatic and unorthodox attitude to where the organisation should be, but we are concerned that the trade union environment exists, and that it has stable conditions in the future. The Ministry of Justice is working with the other departments and tries to land an organisational anchor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1507	I thank you for your answer and have one last question: can the Council of State explain what he considers to be good professional arguments for possibly assessing an organisation under the Institute of Public Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1512	The Institute for Public Health is one of the options under consideration. I think it might be good for me to let the working groups come to a conclusion. It will be a recommendation where the Institute of Public Health and thus also the Ministry of Health are an alternative. There are also opportunities to look at other options under the research field. As I said, I have a relatively pragmatic view of it. The important thing is that the environment survives. Then I'm waiting for some professional clarifications, some good professional advice, before we make our decisions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1520	‘In South Africa, several children have committed very serious violence, including fatality. Today, Bjørgvin and Eidsvoll youth units act as good measures for these. The fatherland friend of the newspaper has had several suggestions about the need for follow-up of children who have been judged so severely that they will continue to work as adults. The prison cuts have been huge under this government, and the rehabilitation work has been neglected. Does the Council have a plan for young people to be followed up in adult prisons, or will he make one?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1527	Criminal services have two youth units, Youth East, Department of Ullersmo Prison, and Bjørgvin Prison, Youth Unit. The scheme with its own youth units started as a probationary scheme in 2009 and was established in 2015 as a permanent scheme at Bjørgvin prison. In 2016, Youth Unit opened east on Eidsvoll. The two units have four places each, so that now there are eight places in the youth units. Youth units are initially reserved for prisoners under 18 years of age, but it is open to assessment of continued residence in the detention centres until 20 years of age. This may be the case in cases where the youth has a special need for follow-up and the capacity of the unit so permits. The Ministry is working on looking at criminal responses to young offenders. In this respect, the Ministry has received various input, which is about how we should respond to young people who have committed serious or repeated crime, including: points out that the Youth Penalty does not always meet the need for serious crime to have significant consequences. There will still be a need for young people to carry out prison sentences in some cases. In particular, it is important for young offenders to have a good record of the prison sentence, so that it acts as a rehabilitation tool and promotes the return to a non-crime life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1536	In the criminal history of the Workers' Party, many measures are aimed at juvenile crime, and some have been mentioned by the Council of State. These include: Responses to youth gangs, juvenile sentences and punishments in drug courts — to name a few. Youth crime went down, at least from around 2009. After five years of right-wing rule, it's growing dramatically in Oslo. Behind these figures we find desperate victims and parents who in many cases get life and quality of life destroyed for a short or long time. What will the Council of State do to ensure that youth does not come out more criminals than they were when they were inserted?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1543	The youth crime and the serious developments we have seen in Oslo require a very holistic and broad approach. The government has also proposed measures in a wide range of areas in the draft state budget now under consideration by the Stortinget: increasing child protection, increasing the strengthening of conflict councils – responsible for youth follow-up and juvenile punishment – strengthening police service against violence in close relations, increasing the strengthening of Kripos and increasing the strengthening of ecocrim. In addition to these budgetary resources, we will also look at different laws and regulations. This is not least the way in which youth penalties and follow-up are carried out. One of the questions we ask is whether too many consents are required. It is clear that when we keep repeating things, it is important that the police react quickly and clearly. Then we have to assess whether punishments other than those we have today need to be used or extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1550	Governments respond with a wide range of measures, and it is true that juvenile criminals have a wide variety of crime, crime, age and background. It is therefore important that a broad range of measures be taken against them. There is some background to the fact that the Workers' Party has now this autumn promoted the proposal on recriminalism, which is a proposal aimed at a particular type of juvenile delinquency. That's also the background that we have set aside 10 million in the budget. as starting-up agents to increase the number of places in the youth and densely glacial zones. So these are two important, concrete proposals. I understand that the Council of State has many areas to spend on – I can only mention terrorist protection, the police and the courts, all of which are underfunded – but I ask anyway: does the Council of State think that these measures provided by the Workers' Party are good measures? Can the Minister of Justice guarantee that criminal services will be strengthened with youth posts in the 2020 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1557	I have noticed the suggestions from the Workers' Party this fall, I think there were many interesting and good suggestions there. I also recognize them, I have noticed that the Workers' Party's new opposition policy – or perhaps an old opposition policy – consists in reading what the government intends to do and making proposals asking the Stortinge to propose what the government has told them to do. It's also a way to run politics. But I think that was a lot of good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1564	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-28.ana.ud257e1578	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
