ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e28	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e33	On behalf of Knut Arild Hareide, Olaug V. Bollestad, Tore Storehaug, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to propose an evaluation of the six-year reform and a school start on children's premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e38	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e43	On behalf of the representatives of Ivar Odnes, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on small tolls through the State takeover of the guarantee on toll loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e64	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Siv Jensen, Jan Tore Sanner and Bent Höie for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e73	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Unfortunately, in Norway today we see an increase in mental health problems among our young people. It's actually one of our greatest health challenges. The Minister of Health often shows himself to be between 15 p.m. and 20 pst. In Norway, children and young people today have reduced their ability to function due to mental distress. I think we agree that it has to be easier to get quick and good health care. But the government is in the process of making it more difficult for young people in need of mental health care or drug treatment to get help in our hospitals by introducing self-payment. There are good psychiatric youth teams across the country that provide treatment for young people aged 15 to 30 years, vulnerable people with low paying skills. Now, since New Year's, young people have to pay NOK 345 per consultation and the same in penalty fees if they don't meet to the hour – a lot of money for young, vulnerable people. So instead of lowering the threshold, the government raises the threshold for health care. How does the Council of State feel that this should make it easier for young people who are struggling with their health to get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e84	It is not true that the government has imposed abstinences on patients over 18 years of age in mental health. The 18-year ownership limit has remained unchanged since the 1980s. Then it is absolutely right that some child and youth psychiatric institutions have practiced self-employment exemptions also for those over 18 years. Some of them have changed this, but there have been no changes in the rules in this area. I believe that there is a reason to see whether a person should have a higher age limit for the proportion of children's and young people's psychiatry, but in this case there is something that we need to investigate and come back to in budgetary terms. But it's not right, as the representative says, that the government has imposed abstinences in mental health for people over 18 years of age. It has been an age limit of 18 since the 1980s. This has been practised very differently from health enterprises to health enterprises. Some health businesses have also granted exemptions to those over 18 years of age in children’s and young people’s psychiatry, others have not. This is why it has been accidental to transfer from the paediatric and adolescent psychiatric department to, for example, DPS, which is very common, has had to pay off. That's why there's every reason to go through this and see if there's any need for change, and that's what we've been doing. Then I fully agree with the representative that it is important to provide quick help, lower the threshold. That is why we are now building a good offer in the municipalities by expanding the psychological service there. We demand that municipalities have a mental health service. It is also worth noting that these excesses also fall under section 1, so here is a screening system already.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e97	The state councils own the hospitals. This is happening out there in Norway today, and it is under the responsibility of the Council of State. For example, in Bergen, assessments are made at department level not to comply with this requirement. You can probably argue that it is the scarce framework of hospitals that makes you choose to introduce self-payment – these are departments that have no systems to collect payment either – but I have to ask the question: When competent, dedicated professionals down at department level take responsibility for their patients and deviate from this requirement that they get from regional health companies – which the Council of State owns – how does the Council of State feel to feel that professional assessments are so different across the country, when he is responsible for providing all children and young people with good help across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e102	This is not a new situation, as I said in my previous answer. This has been practiced very differently from place to place over very many years. The 18-year ownership limit has been in force since the 1980s. Of course, I cannot oblige health regions to follow a different margin of marginality from the one decided by the Stortinget. Local health assessments will always be made. When one introduced the system that people who do not attend an hour should pay a higher proportion of their earnings, it was also well anchored in the Stortinget that special mental health and drug assessments should be made, precisely because one should not punish people not to attend the hour if there are good reasons why they did not. There will be local assessments. But as I say, I think there's a need to go through this to see if we're going into a different rule than the one that's today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e107	The world is happening out there, and the psychiatric youth teams that help young people between 15 and 30 years of age are located in all health regions. They report that from New Year onwards they must begin to take on a fair share, and then make the various assessments from the department to the department. Then I think it almost seems like a rarity that the Council of State is standing in this room and saying that it is the same rule of partiality that has been in force since the 1980s. There's a change out there, the threshold for getting help is raised, and it happens on the guard of the Council of State. How will the Council of State make sure that the threshold for getting help is lowered? If he wants to go in to standardize this, give a norm that says there should be no excess on these youth psychiatric teams, for example.? He can't just stand there and refer to a 1980 regulation when this happens out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e114	It can't be a rarity that I answer a question in Stortinget to what is actually the law. It would be a rarity if I didn't. I fully agree that there is reason to discuss whether a person should have a higher age limit for the proportion of children's and young people's psychiatric services than what was set in the 1980s, namely 18 years, but if we are to do so, we must first investigate it and, secondly, promote it for the Stortinge, for example. in the context of a budget, because it has financial implications and that would be a change of rules. I cannot oblige hospitals to comply with any legislation other than that adopted by the Stortinget. I think the representative would have been very engaged and asked questions if I had done so in other areas. That this is practiced differently is not new either. This has been the case for many years, but then local assessments are given. But the reimbursement they receive from the state is linked to the legislation enshrined in the Stortinget, which says 18 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e121	Here's the situation that you're experiencing that you haven't had a fair share before. It's been low threshold. You have not paid for this service. You have also not received a penalty if you have not met. The threshold has been low. There has been an innovation in the service – psychiatric youth teams that have met a good need. So this changes because of the financial framework for which the Council of State is responsible. To make this a rule discussion, I feel as a significant disclaimer of responsibility for a patient group that the Council of State itself has said he has lifted to the top of his priority list. How long can we wait? And what do you say to the young people who now find it harder to get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e128	The description given by the representative of the situation is not correct. It has been completely dependent on the team you have belonged to, and which health care company you have belonged to. This has been practiced differently over many years. That means that someone has paid the bills of sale before, while others have not. Now there are several people who have received a claim for a propensity, but it is not due to a rule change. This is because many people have dealt with the legislation adopted by the Stortinget. What I've said is that I'm working on looking at this. But as the representative knows, if we are to raise age limits related to prostheses, it has an economic significance. Therefore, it would be natural to come back to this in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e135	It opens for follow-up questions - first Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e141	The introduction of input-driven funding in mental health protection is now forcing all hospitals to demand possession of young people who are struggling with alcohol and psychiatry. In the past, the practice of many companies was not to demand the possession of patients over 18 years of age, especially in paediatric psychiatric outpatients and psychiatric youth teams. This has been a wise practice. In Health Bergen, they have for the time being refused to claim property from people under 30 years of age, and they cannot see that it is justified to demand money from these young people. They tell about young people who can no longer afford to receive help, they tell them that hospitals need to use their time to help them seek out Nav for support. Youth teams were supposed to be a low-threshold offer. Does the Council of State realize that the introduction of input-driven funding in mental health protection is a wrong step, and will the Council of State do more than evaluate and discuss — and let the youth of the psychiatry omit property?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e150	The introduction of input-driven funding in mental health is an important tool, both in order to improve the understanding of mental health activities, contribute to increased activity and receive more equal treatment with other hospital services. This is precisely because we want increased activity, not least in the field of mental health protection for children and young people, and that it is prioritised in line with the golden rule. In the case of local assessments relating to the paying of accruals, this may now be done as before, but the State reimbursement is linked to the regulation adopted by the Stortinget. There, the Stortinge has adopted an age limit of 18 years. I am in the process of assessing whether that age limit is wise, and will come back to Stortinget with an assessment of it. It is also important to say that all these excesses fall under equity participation 1, and once one has reached that ceiling, all services are free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e157	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e162	We have a whole new situation. Many more young people have to pay for mental health care. The councils refer to the code, but we're asking about people's lives out there. This is not the only excesses that have been increased by this government. It has been done in a lot of fields. How can it be that we have a government that can afford well over 20 billion? In tax cuts, which no one can document has provided more jobs, but at the same time saves money by putting financial pressure, effort-driven financing, increasing the proportion of young people in mental health protection and increasing the proportion of people in health care? I wonder if the Council of State can agree that Norway's wealthiest could have contributed a few thousand more copies, so that we could fund free mental health protection for young people and exempt all young people up to 18 years of age for self-esteem throughout the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e169	All Norwegian young people up to the age of 18 are exempted from self-interest in mental health – regardless of where you get help, if you get help from a private contract specialist, if you get help from a district psychiatric centre, if you get help from child and youth psychiatry. Proportions for children and young people under 18 years of age are not available in mental health in Norway. This government has also made no changes to that limit. No matter how many times the representative repeats that error, it is a mistake. The government has made no changes to that limit. I'm assessing whether we're going to raise that age limit, especially in child and youth psychiatry, but it's a change that in case will have budgetary implications. It's a rule change that we have to come back to Stortinget with. The rules may be applied differently in the service. It's been done every year. This means that there has been a significant injustice, by chance, from where you have been given help, whether you have paid self-interest or one when you are over 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e176	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e181	Psychiatric health for children and young people has been an area of activity for the entire size of the population. We have a unanimous decision that we should get an action plan to help just these. It costs an awful lot to the individual to get sick at a young age. It costs society a lot. It often becomes a whole life of illness if it debuts at a young age. I have a question for the Council of State, because it now turns out that the economy can be a threshold for people either not being treated or not being treated, and this has changed since 1 January 2018. I hear the council say that he will assess whether the proportion should be lower for this group, so my question is: does he have a plan in the short term and in the long term? There are young people who are already outside, and there is a need for time for investigation. There are these young people we're concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e188	In the same way as before, I believe that the best assessment in dealing with the individual patient can be made out of the service. It's still possible. These are branches which fall within the scope of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. For example, many people who are assisted in childhood and youth psychiatry have also expenditure on medicinal products. This means that they reach roof 1 relatively early in the year and thus have completely free healthcare after that. It's also very important to say, because it's now creating the impression that you have to pay more than $300 every time you're in the field of child and youth psychiatry if you're over 18. It's until partial 1 is reached, and then it's free of charge. Many people also go to hospital, and they have medical expenses. This means that they are early in the year when it is roofed – and then it is free.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e193	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e198	Several places in the country plan hospitals to shorten the lay time for women and newborns after birth. In 10 years, the average period of hospitalisation after birth in Norwegian hospitals is from 3.2 days in 2007 to 2.7 days in 2016. In Bergen, for example. a measure of 40 pst. the newly-baked mothers should be able to return home after 6 to 24 hours when the new hospital is completed in 2023. There shall be no birthplace for normal birth. This is done at the same time as there is a lack of between 600 and 700 midwiferies on a national basis so that mother and child can have a defensive offer. 60 pst. local authorities do not offer home visits within two weeks, as recommended. The plan to send mother and children home after six hours is unreal. Development is totally unacceptable, and more professionals call for caution. The childlegs and midwives fear the health of mother and child. Fears of increased infant mortality, undetected nursing problems, unprovided help, untreated illness. Six hours is short. It's about twice as long as we're in question here today. Ensuring Norwegian women a safe and secure supply of birth and maternity is a political responsibility. Bargain services are now being defined by Norwegian hospitals. It is suggested that many women should not stay overnight after birth – and this government is guarded. Clinical directors only indicate that maternity care must be done in the most efficient way possible at least cost. Is the Council of State agreed to this, or will he now take action to secure women and their newborn children a decent and professionally defending provision of birth and maternity in Norwegian hospitals and in the municipalities for years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e211	Firstly, there is no plan for Norwegian women to leave the hospital six hours after birth. There is always an individual assessment of how long women and children need to be in the hospital after a birth. I have full confidence that the midwives, together with skilled birth doctors, assess how long each woman needs to be in the hospital after a birth, and so it should be in the future. I think it's very unwise if we politicians decide how long each patient should be in hospital. I have full confidence that the professionals can assess this. What we have a responsibility for is to help continue to develop good maternity care in Norway. It will not least be about strengthening the midwife services in the municipality. We see that very many birthing women get a much better offer if they receive continuous follow-up from the same midwife, both in pregnancy and after birth. That is why this government, together with the Christian People's Party, is committed to a strong construction of the health stations and midwifery services in the municipalities. We've committed over one billion. kr for the last four years. Now in 2018, in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, we have also set aside earmarked funds for the further construction of the midwife service, and fortunately we see that there are more midwives in the municipalities. Of course, hospitals should continue to take responsibility for the special offer that birthing women need even after birth. It is the national leaders in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e221	There's a limit to everything, even for average time in our maternity wards. There is also a limit to what a specialist council can omit to take responsibility for. Because it's a political responsibility to prevent midwives from becoming a balancing post, that pregnant women become a balancing post, and that infants get an unnecessary hard start to life. There is a lack of between 600 and 700 midwiferies in municipalities. For the last four years, 87 have been added, and at that rate it would take 30 years to get enough midwives to meet today's quality standards. In addition, when one builds hospital buildings that do not provide room — literally — for maternity care, it is particularly worrying. Will the Council of State put a stop to the reduction in hospital time in Norway and have an escalation plan for midwives in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e232	I take absolute responsibility for strengthening maternity care in Norway. That is one of the reasons why the government, together with the Christian People's Party, has strengthened the offer, put out of money, and now in 2018 this has been reinforced by earmarked money for midwifery positions in the municipalities, and we see that as a result. In addition to money, we reverse the red-green policy that removed the legal requirement that municipalities have midwives. When the central party was in government, an initiative was taken and removed the requirement in the law that the municipality should have midwives. We've turned that around. From 1 January 2018, it is a legal requirement that the municipality should have a midwife's competence, as well as that we give the municipalities money to hire midwives, and we also oblige the hospitals to have a much better cooperation with the municipalities. Hospitals should, of course, also consider what services are available in municipalities when assessing the outsourcing of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e237	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e242	It is almost shocking to hear that the Council of State is not answering the question here – that he has no responsibility for this. A new hospital is being built in Stavanger, and there they have put in nothing but that several mothers should go home the same day. So it's a change in policy. When this hospital is completed in 2023, it is not useful to come forward with a solemn wish to maintain the bedtime, because then there is no room there anymore. So these are decisions that one has to take today. I also mean it's a disclaimer when the council says that he can't decide whether to go out after a few hours or after a few days. No, but the Council of State may help those who want that security to do so. So my question is whether the state council can guarantee that women in Rogaland in the future will release a ‘fixed track’ from the hospital after they have given birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e251	The women in Rogaland and in the rest of the country will get a good assessment of the midwife/maternity doctor about how long they need to stay in the hospital before they go home. In that assessment, an emphasis must also be placed on the provision of the municipality in which the woman lives. For example, there are hospitals that have good cooperation agreements with the municipality, which make it the same midwife who follows the woman into birth, who also follows the woman home from birth, and who follows up afterwards. We see that there is something the women who are born are very pleased with, not least in the districts where there are long distances. In the case of Stavanger, very many of the birthing women today are put on a patient hotel before they go home. What Health Stavanger has said is that more of those admitted to hotels today can get a better follow-up, in cooperation with the midwives at home in the municipality, than they get at the hotel. I think that is a professional assessment and not a political assessment, whether you should be in a hotel or be at home after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e258	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e263	Elisabeth Rusdal of the Norwegian Women's and Family Association states: ‘Even pregnant cows have better protection in their pregnancy than women have in this country.’ I've received a lot of calves in my life. I have put them into feeding legs, given them safety and tranquillity and left them alone for a day so that they will have peace. So Susanne Albrechtsen says, ‘The objective is that 40 per cent of women should be super-fast home.’ And on the other hand, ‘We must use the health crowns effectively.’ My question to the Minister of Finance is this: Does Minister of Finance Siv Jensen think that health budgets are going to be so tight that clinic managers around Norwegian hospitals see it as a goal to print out women who have been born after six hours, and that 40 pst. by mothers and children to be printed within a short period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e285	Now the Minister of Health has responded well to what is the practice of this in hospitals. If the question to me is about the health budgets, I dare remind the representative Schlagsvold Vedum that health budgets are increasing every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e290	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e295	Once again, we see a finance minister who disclaims responsibility, because that's when this happens. It is now set as a goal that 40 p.p. of women who have been born should be super-fast home, and that – once they have had their child – they should leave the hospital and be transported home in six hours. This is on Siv Jensen's watch. Does the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, believe that the aim is for women to be transported home six hours after they have been born?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e300	Neither I nor the government deny us responsibility. On the contrary, we are in a situation where the Norwegian economy is now improving, because the government has been pursuing an expansionary fiscal policy for several years. The arrows point in the right direction. While we have managed to solve the major challenges we have faced in terms of the oil price drop – many have lost their jobs – we now see that unemployment is falling, and growth is rising. At the same time, we have been able to give priority to the important areas that this government has set itself. One of the areas that has been the focus of this government is health. Health budgets have risen every year. More specific questions related to birthing women and childbirth, it is quite natural to ask the Minister of Health, who is responsible for it. He has already explained that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e306	The President agreed. Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e313	Norway has the best birth and maternity care in the world. It is a chance that needs to be defended every day, and especially when planning for new offers. Now the situation is the one in several hospitals that you plan with less bedtime, you plan to leave earlier. From this point of view, my question to the Council of State, when in a previous answer here, he says that he has full confidence in the professional assessment made by midwives and obstetricians for repatriation: Well, what then, good councillor, when it is these professionals who are now calling for warning that the bedtime is now approaching a limit point, and that the reception apparatus in the municipalities is not good enough? What about these professionals, whom the Council of State says he has full confidence in?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e318	It is quite right, as the representative of Kjerkol says, that Norway is probably among the four–five countries in the world where it is safest to feed and be a mother. It shows international studies. And not only that we are, but we have also had a positive development in the last 10-20 years. The positive development has occurred at the same time as one has had a quite significant reduction in the bedtime in the hospitals of birthing women. So at the same time that the downtime has fallen, the quality and the results have improved. The reduction in bedtime over the last 20–30 years has not been politically determined. It has been part of a professional development. That's probably how it's going to be in the future, too, that you have a development. This isn't unique to birthing, it's been the same development for all patients. But it is the individual doctor who has to take the evaluation of the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e325	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e330	We've been the best in the world – until now. But everyone who opens the papers and reads about mothers with bad experiences, I also think how important it is that we take this up now. When we talk about professional advice, an important professional advice is that all mothers in active birth should have one-to-one follow-up of midwife. It has been discussed several times with the Council of State, and every time the Council of State has not had control, has lacked numbers, has lacked knowledge, despite the fact that we ask again and again. That's why we have to take it back up here now and ask the Council of State if he's finally got control of the quality of maternity care and now can tell us if all mothers in active birth have a midwife one-to-one, how many have it, and if not all have it, whether he will ensure enough midwife resources for all mothers to have the quality and the follow-up they're going to have in active birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e337	I believe that we can safely say that Norway has control over the quality of birth care. So we're among the best countries to be born in. All international studies show that we are and that development has gone in the right direction. Despite the fact that we started out among the best in the international studies, we have, however, also improved significantly. It is absolutely right that we have a quality requirement that one should have one-to-one follow-up in the hospitals during birth. In contrast to what has been the case in the past, I have also introduced reporting requirements, so that hospitals now report the proportion of women who receive one-to-one follow-up. Unfortunately, I do not have the numbers in my head, but I can send them to the representative at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e344	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e349	Some of the concern is that there are no professional reasons for these short printing times that we now see. It is planned and built in such a way that it will not be possible to maintain the professional judgement that the Council of State says must be there. It's simply not space and space. Many hospitals report that they now have a printing practice because lack of capacity — not professional assessments — is at the root of these rapid printouts. Along with that, we see an increase in birth depression, which has doubled in the last 15 years. While hormones are raging and breast-feeding has not started, mother and children are sent home in the past, and municipal health services are not in place either. Will the Council of State ensure that there is no planning and building that is too little to take care of the professional qualities of maternity care?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e356	The dimensioning of the individual hospital is done locally and always in close cooperation with the professionals working in hospitals. There are separate working groups for each area and this is assessed locally according to the forecasts. In addition, we have established an own health company, Hospital Building HF, which ensures that the experience of new hospital buildings, both positive and negative, is further incorporated into the planning of new buildings. This means that one goes away from what has been a bit of the model in Norway in the past – that one builds a hospital each time as if one did it for the first time – but builds on both positive and negative experiences for each building. It will also help you to gain knowledge and to constantly improve these work. But those who make the best assessments of dimensioning are professionals and management locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e361	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e366	During the period 2007-2013, I was allowed to be rapporteur in one of the municipalities with the youngest population in the country, and that means there were a terrible number of births. During that period, the hospital decided to print patients earlier. We sat as a municipality and caught these, and I had many crying mothers in my office from that situation. So we know, by numbers afterwards, that birth depression has increased dramatically. It has great consequences for mother and great consequences for young people growing up with a mentally ill mother. The municipality is not able to detect it so early with a few home visits by midwife or health care sister. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State worry that depression of pregnancy and childbirth has increased so dramatically? And it could have some consequences for hospitals...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e374	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e379	Yes, the increase in gestational depression and mental challenges — not only about pregnancy depression here, but also about mental health challenges — is something that concerns me. That is why, like the representative, I am very concerned that we are building up and strengthening good maternity care in Norway. During the period the representative refers to, where this increase has been, the average lying time has ranged from 3.2 to 2.7 days. I don't think a decrease of 0.5 days can explain that development in mental health challenges among birthing women. As the professionals say, this is a complex question. During the same period, we have seen a large increase in mental health challenges in the general population. But I believe the answer to that challenge is what I feel is that the Christian People's Party and the government agree, that we need to strengthen maternity care, not least in the municipalities, so that you get a good follow-up in pregnancy and after birth, and we do that by strengthening the midwife service in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e384	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e389	I've recently become uncle to little Erik, and as my sister could tell, there were amazingly capable people in the maternity ward, but they had terrible bad time. The government has cut the basic appropriations through so-called ABE cuts for several years. For those who wonder what is hiding behind that name, the flat cheese needs to be without priority or no analysis of what the actual needs of the different parts of the health sector are. The sector is screaming about the lack of resources in the food supply. Prime Minister Erna Solberg posted a clip on her blog post yesterday, where she said that the first day is the most dangerous thing in a child's life. That's what SV agrees with. That is why we have proposed in our alternative state budget to strengthen maternity care and to transfer more money to the municipalities. But we still see that the government is proposing new, unpriority cheese needs in health care year after year. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he is affected by the stories we have heard about the great lack of resources in maternity care, and whether he will then propose to protect the maternity wards against these unprioritised cheese conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e396	The government has prioritised growth in the hospital economy and facilitated a growth in patient treatment of 11.9 p.m. through the five budgets we have submitted. I just want to remind you that the total budget growth under the Stoltenberg II government – i.e. over eight years – was 10.5 pst. In five years this government has prioritised a higher growth in hospitals than the previous government has been able to do for eight years. I'm very happy about that, because there's a need, not least to give a good offer to all types of patients. It is important to give priority to hospitals. We have done that in tough times too, when the country has been in a situation of high unemployment and low oil prices. This has also produced good results. The waiting times are shorter, fewer patients are in line. We also experience that we have good results within, for example: maternity care. I am fully aware that those who work in hospitals have – and experience – a busy everyday life today, as they have done over many years. A huge effort is being made in hospitals. I don't think it's a good idea for the Stortinget or the government to start earmarking money in the hospitals' budgets for the individual areas. I think it's wise that those assessments are made locally, and that hospitals are planning to spend the money they get from the Storting, in those areas where they think it's the most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e405	The question is not whether the economy is growing, but whether the economy is enough to cover the problems. What I asked about was whether the stories of the mothers have made an impression, but the council didn't mention these mothers in a word. Then I can mention one of them, Madeleine Schultz, who says that her relationship with giving birth for the first time was somewhat like the “fit-mum” accounts on instagram”: ‘It’s primarily about how to tighten and streamline’ — as early as possible. SV wants them to be able to choose whether they want to go to the midwife or to be regular. We have mentioned this several times and have received a response from the Ministry of Finance that it is economically profitable for municipalities to send mothers to permanent agencies. We've heard stories about women who are denied freedom of choice. The daily paper shows that up to 44 stillbirths could have been avoided in 2016 by better follow-up in pregnancy. Will the government turn around, support SV and change the funding mechanism, so that we no longer actively prize Mother's right to choose a midwife, if she wants to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e419	I have to say again that both the representative and others give a picture of Norwegian maternity care that in no way matches what we see are the results. Norway is likely to have one of the world’s best birth nurses. Of course, that single patients have bad experiences, we have to take it seriously. It has to be worked on all the time. What I'm concerned about is that one, not least in healthcare, is going to meet the individual person. To describe Norwegian maternity care that cows like calves are better off – using the kind of pictures – I think is completely wrong. It creates a scare picture for women in Norway who have not yet given birth, that is what they are going to meet with. It's not. One is lucky when one is a nurturing woman in Norway, because one born in the country that is likely to have the best offer, and ranked as one of the best countries to be a mother in, even after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e426	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e431	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge, who is now sitting impatiently. Right now, it's been 20 years since the first six-year-olds entered Norwegian school. So we're celebrating the 20th anniversary of the six-year reform. The question is, what has been the result of the school reform? So the goal was to ensure social smoothing by getting more children through the school and with better results. It was supposed to give early school start, because it was mandatory, something that kindergarten isn't. So we see today that there are many who are tired at school. Departure from further training is high. The number of ADHD diagnoses path, and children and young people struggling with the feeling of not reaching demands and expectations that are both in school and outside. In addition, an SSB study has concluded that the impact of the six-year reform seems to be small, both in terms of youth, the implementation of further education, and to what extent students are well professional or general. We know that there was a cost-saving reform. It was cheaper to have six-year-olds in school than in kindergarten. But the idea behind this reform was to take the best from kindergarten and the best from school and get the first year to really become a year of play and learning in a positive outcome. That doesn't seem to have happened. My question to the Council of State is this: Does the new Minister of Knowledge think that the six-year reform is successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e446	The representative Knut Arild Hareide points to some of the challenges in Norwegian school, and we're going to take them seriously. At the same time, we should also be glad that there are several students who are now completing high school. We also see the results that students have, among other things. through the PISA study, that they read better, and that more people do well in real science. So it's absolutely right that we also have some challenges. I hope that the answer to the Hareide question is not that the Christian People's Party wants to take the six-year-olds back to kindergarten. The answer must be that we invest more in the youngest children in school. That's why we now, together with the Christian People's Party, have a great commitment to early school work. We know that it is in the first few years that it is especially important to invest in our children, make sure they learn to read, write and calculate, but at the same time they have a safe and good schooling day. The two things have to be seen in the context. We have to make sure that the children are well at school, that we build a team around the children, and especially around the children who are struggling. What we're doing now is we're making sure that there are more teachers in school. We make sure that there are more career paths and that we get teacher specialists who become specialists in initial training. I think we're going to experience the 20 years we've had with the six-year reform, and then we're going to take the best of what's been, and make sure that we strengthen the school in the future: both that we strengthen the common area that the school is, and that we focus more on good initial training, so that the children learn to read, write and calculate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e459	I can reassure the council that it is not the intention of the Christian People's Party to take the six-year-olds out of school, but it was an intention behind the reform that we should take the best of the kindergarten, the best of the school, and put together a new year. That intention is not followed up. Government predecessor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said it was not relevant for him to make 1st grade into a season. Then he was also moved away from the role of the Minister of Knowledge to another role after he had said that, and my question is, to the one who has now been given this new trust: does he see that there is a need to adjust the very first year in line with what was meant, that we should have a year that is in a way on the premises of the children more than on the premises of the school, and that we are just securing learning through play the first year as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e467	Now I believe that both kindergarten and school should be on children's premises. Of course, you can also learn by playing; you can also learn by playing in kindergarten. We see that the children who go to kindergarten do better at school too. It is important that more children go to kindergarten, and especially children with a minority background. That is why we have a strong commitment to it. We're also betting on skills building at school. So I think it's not our job as politicians to control the education of the school in detail. We have to give the teacher room to be a teacher. We need to give teachers the tools they need to adapt their training to the challenges they face. This means that if a teacher believes that the child can learn better through play, it must, of course, be prepared, both for the smallest and perhaps for those who are a little older. You can learn a lot — including adults — by playing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e474	It opens for follow-up questions – first Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e479	A good start to school is essential for success across the school cycle, and yesterday the Central Party presented a proposal for a review of the six-year reform in order to better address the needs of the younger students. Here, political action has been taken in the past, for which the Council of State must also be responsible today. After 20 years since Reform 97 was launched, and the age of school leaving was reduced – successfully or evenly – we now need a review. We experience that students’ premises have been set aside for the benefit of phase-out of kindergarten education, increased learning pressure and less free play time. And, as the Council of State says, the first years are critical. Does the Council of State think that today the school serves the needs of the youngest students in a good way, or does the Council of State agree that this development has gone too far?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e488	I think I can answer that I wouldn't say yes to becoming a Minister of Knowledge and Integration if I thought everything was perfect in school, because then the job would have been done. I see that we succeed with a lot, and we'll be happy for that. Newspaper Nordland today writes that the grades go up, more get a lesson, there's less absence and less non-response. It shows that much goes well in Norwegian school. But then it is a reality that some children are struggling. We know that too many people leave high school without being able to read, write and calculate. And the answer to that is more early effort. So when our blue-green government is going to do a boost of early school effort, it's because we want to invest more in the kids who start out as six-year-olds, who want to learn, but of course also have a pedagogy that's adapted to their challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e495	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e500	In the introduction of the six-year reform, it was stressed that six-year-olds should enter school and take the game from kindergarten. There should be two pedagogues, the kindergarten teacher in combination with the general teacher, and, as the representative Hareide said, with the best from kindergarten and the best from school. Nevertheless, the result is that we have gained a more instrumentalistic learning vision, and that this learning vision has increasingly taken over for our younger kids as well. A theoretical and one-way day of school with demands and results, I overshadow school everyday life also at 1st to 4th stages. For SV, it is important to take care of all young people and to ensure that we have appropriate training for all. Does the Minister agree that the play and the self-esteem of childhood are to be maintained in school, and is this well maintained today? Or what does the Minister think you have to do in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e507	I have not met a single teacher who is not concerned with caring for the whole human being, rather on the contrary. I meet so many proud and good teachers in Norwegian school, who are concerned that students should have a safe and good school day, that they should facilitate the development of the whole human being, but also that the children should learn. From childhood to kindergarten, we know that they want to learn, but then you learn different ways: language development in kindergarten, and in school they have to learn to read, write and calculate. The investment we now have, both in the teaching norm, as a result of the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, and also the government's great commitment to early efforts and the whole trade renewal that we've now started, will give the teacher more room to be a teacher. It will also help students learn more. Now we're going in the right direction, and we're going to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e516	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e521	I have a question for Minister of Health Höie. The Health Directorate states that 96 pst. believes that work is important for their mental health. This is very consistent with international studies on quality of life. A workplace can provide dignity, a sense of mastery and respect in the eyes of others — and thus in their own. All of this is crucial to quality of life, especially in those with mental disabilities. But we see the opposite now. More and more people are out of work because of mental illness. The perspective report shows that for more than half of those under 40 years of age who were granted disability benefit in 2014, the cause was mental illness. On the other hand, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work has shown that long working days and shiftwork have a negative effect on mental health, and start falling out of work first, often mental disorders can also get worse, i.e. a vicious circle. So my question to the Minister of Health is: Will the Minister of Health take the initiative to assess shorter working hours as an instrument for reducing mental illness in the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e532	The first part of the question is that I agree with a hundred percent – work is essentially healthful, and the fact that people are involved in the working life is given the opportunity to contribute to society, that society sends a signal to everyone that we need them, creates good health. There is some background to the fact that the blue-green government in its new platform has said that the state should take the lead in an integration process, where people with holes in the CV, perhaps as a result of a mental health challenge or drug addiction, are given priority and opportunity to get into work. The state has to go ahead. It is also the way in which health care is now leading more and more strongly to work being seen as part of the treatment. We have e.g. in my hometown, Stavanger, in mental health, something called a JobRecept, which means that when one is already being treated for mental health challenges, as part of the treatment, it comes to work. It's giving us very nice results. When it comes to the question itself, it is the responsibility of another Council of State, but I can only say that I have little faith that the answer to the fact that more people are going to work in Norway is that we are going to divide the tasks we have into even more. I believe that the answer to this is to create more profitable jobs in Norway, and not least to help more people get to work. Then there are some work tasks that in their nature are shiftwork. Some people have to work nights and weekends in our hospitals, in the care of the elderly, and it is important that they do so within a framework that is safe, although we have evidence that it can also provide health challenges for some.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e543	Today, legislation is such that working time is reduced only if there is a health, social or welfare justification or if there is over 62 years of age. This means that those who feel that the labour pressure is too high must get sick and end up on sick pay and sick pay schemes or fall completely outside before they are entitled to a reduced working time. The consequence is that they have to work to the extent that they are worn out and they are permanently out of work before they can change. The question remains: instead of keeping food and finance separate from health, will the Council of State consider whether it is possible to grant the right to a reduced working time for more groups than today, possibly for anyone who wants it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e549	Now the representative is deeply involved in the responsibility of another State Council, namely the Minister of Labour, so I think I will refrain from answering that question. What I can say is that participating in the work force, experiencing that society needs one, is health-threatening, completely independent of age. I'm very happy to see that more people are now at work, because I think it contributes to better health in old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e554	The focus on preventive health work has long been on focusing, not only on repairing treatment. This will also require a refocusing of health policies towards more holistic health. It's e.g. demonstrated a high effect of subjective quality of life on physical health. Simply put, if you feel better, you get less sick. But we still have a lack of data and knowledge about important groups. With better knowledge, we could prioritise better, not just in terms of dollars, but also in terms of the evidence of better life and better health. Today, for example. It is very unclear whether this responsibility is to be coordinated by the SSB or the Public Health Institute. Will the Council of State clarify whether it is the Institute of Public Health or the SSB that is the most appropriate entity for the coordination of such a quality of life measurement system and work towards sufficient resources for such a vitally important theme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e559	The SSB has overall responsibility for statistics in Norway across sectors. Under this government, the Institute of Public Health has gained a clearer and more purer role in providing a knowledge base for health decisions. It's a mission that I feel they're delivering well on, among other things. by providing good public health records for each municipality. Now the individual representative of the local government or the individual councillor can go in and read his public health profile and make a local public health policy based on it. I think that is very positive, and I am absolutely convinced that my new colleague in the government, Åse Michaelsen, who is responsible for public health policy, will follow this up very well and work on it in the context of the new public health policy report to be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e564	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e569	The government thinks we have to change, and we have to increase productivity. But the government's policy on employment is taking us in the opposite direction, especially in some sectors. The SSB reported earlier this year that the productivity of construction has fallen by 10 pst. since the millennium. The SSB is moving forward, among others. increasing labour immigration as a cause of falling productivity. The trade union movement points to rentals as well as a major cause of falling productivity, the weakening of acquired knowledge, the fact that employers do not send temporary employees or rents on courses, and that no manning company is conducting vocational training with apprentices. This in total promotes short-termity and poor planning. Siv Jensen attended a so-called summit on the fight against crime at work and social dumping this week. After the meeting, it was said that ‘the situation of construction in the Oslo area is disturbing both the government and the social partners’. [[...]] But then the government parties – the Progress Party, the Right and the Left – go against what is now under discussion in the Stortinget, namely proposals from Red and other opposition parties to introduce measures against hiring and staffing agencies, which can solve the problem of just falling productivity. We will build on one of the most important things about the Norwegian model, namely the highly skilled, permanent workers. Does the Minister of Finance realise that the manning industry and government policy contribute to falling productivity in the construction sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e578	I think I have to start by saying that the question from Moxnes should have been addressed to the Minister of Labour as the responsible State Council for those questions. That's why I think I'm going to try to approach the answer on a slightly more general basis, and say that the summit we had earlier this week on the crime of working life was a very good meeting – with the social partners, with the Labour Inspectorate, with the police, the tax authorities and other actors, who explained the interdisciplinary cooperation that is going on just to fight crime in the workplace. What's positive is that evolution is going in the right direction. Just because we've set up these seven centers around the country, and precisely because we now have cross-cutting cooperation, we see that the results are starting to come, but we're not in any way in goal. There's still a lot of darkness, there's still events that should be revealed, and then it's all about working on different types of tools – tools in the toolbox, if I can say it like that – to get it done. And then it's right, as the representative of Moxnes says, that the productivity of the construction industry is lower than it should be. But in any case, I suggest that the question be addressed to the responsible State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e587	Social dumping is growing with explosive labour force. It threatens productivity. The volume just increases, and it spreads to more and more industries. Saying that it's going in the right direction, as State Councillor Jensen says, is with respect to report some sort of dream from Disneyland. The reality is the inverse, as we now see. Productivity should be on the table of the Minister of Finance. It's a crucial question for our entire economy. And I wonder if the Minister of Finance can give an answer as to whether she does not see that, for example. shutting down the manning industry from the construction sites in the Oslofjord area – as we are proposing in Stortinget now, in order to secure permanent staff and ensure the productivity of the construction industry – is just a measure that is necessary to combat declining productivity, which I hope Siv Jensen also cares about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e594	It is quite right that I am concerned about getting productivity growth in Norway to a higher level than it has been. Growth in productivity has been falling for very many years. There are different reasons for that. That was one of the reasons why some of the first things this government did was to set down a productivity commission to both answer why Norway – like many other countries – sees a falling rate of growth in productivity, and then to make some suggestions on how to increase our own productivity. It's about a lot of things. It's about solving societal tasks in a smarter way than we've done in the past. This is why the government has, for example, establish the company New Weier AS, which challenges the methodology of road construction in society, and which has proved to be a very good tool, because it makes us get more money for it, to say it very simply. That is why we have also implemented a wide range of reforms to make money use more efficient. I am very pleased if Moxnes' representative has now suddenly become very concerned about this and can help support important reforms in the future for this government, which is about spending money smarter. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e601	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e606	Unregulated labour immigration in the EEA area places great pressure on productivity and employment in many sectors. Research shows that industries with high levels of labour migration and high levels of rent experience labour crime and social dumping, including the construction industry. During Siv Jensen, the Progress Party has become more and more active in its drive towards the EEA, but in practice it is doing very little. The boundaries are closed – that is true – to people on the run, but it is therefore free to move for the work-life mob across the Svinesund. The government hangs around the unregulated labour immigration, which puts pressure on the Norwegian model. Red will have an ordinary trade agreement with the EU rather than the EEA Husbands Agreement. Does the Minister of Finance see that the unregulated flow of labour and capital threatens the Norwegian model with strong trade unions and highly skilled, permanent employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e613	‘Having it in mind’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e619	I'm going to answer the question anyway, even if this question also falls to another Council of State. As far as I know, labour migration to Norway from the EEA region has decreased, among others. as a result of the fall in oil prices. Many migrant workers in Norway went home as a result of more difficult times in the labour market. How that development is going to be in the future, I'm not going to predict. But when it is claimed that we have a completely unregulated situation on the labour market, I do not agree with that. We have a well-organised working life, but we have some challenges that we are engaged in discussing with the social partners, working to find a good response to, among other things. through the good forum we have with the parties to discuss how we can get even better tools to combat work-life crime. And it is absolutely right that there is organised criminal activity across industries, across borders. Then, too, in addition to looking for our own tools, we need to work internationally to find solutions. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e628	That's it. There will be follow-up questions – Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e635	The high level of organisation is a competitive advantage for Norway that ensures high productivity, innovation and high adaptability. We have many examples of Norwegian companies that are world-class because they have stable, highly competent employees and a good cooperation between management and trustees. Therefore, it is worrying that the degree of organisation declines and is now below 50 pst. in Norway. This development is reinforced by the fact that the government weakens the level of organisation by making it more expensive to be organised, weakens the cooperation of the social partners with lack of dialogue and seems totally uninterested in doing something about the increasing use of rentals, which weakens the organised working life, the recruitment of skilled workers, the skills of industries and the productivity of society. How does the Minister of Finance see that this development will affect the social economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e642	Once again, the question is a little bit on the side of what I have constitutional responsibility for, but what I can say is that this government hasn't arranged to make it more expensive to be organized. We have continued the trade union deduction every year and have also said in the new government platform that we intend to continue this. Then I agree that there is reason to consider why the level of organisation in Norway is falling. Of course, the parties are busy, and the government has stated that in cooperation with the parties we would like to look at what we can do to facilitate the strengthening of the degree of organisation, but it is also about ensuring that those who choose not to be organized for various reasons, also have good, orderly conditions at their place of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e649	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e654	My question is to the Minister of Knowledge. The introduction of manning standards is important in order to ensure quality for all children in kindergarten. Toys, learning, challenges, care and a safe catch to sit on when needed will probably require qualified adults. That is why the Workers' Party has for many years wanted to set up a crew standard. What is happening now is that the government's introduction of the standard of manning, which should be an unparalleled positive matter, creates uncertainty. Municipalities must comply with the norm by August, but still lack concrete answers from the government. Both the KS and local elected representatives, such as the party trap of the Council of State in Kristiansand, rapporteur Harald Furre, believe that the government is under-funding the standard of personnel and is particularly concerned about the private kindergartens. The most serious concern is that in a survey conducted by the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, one of four small kindergartens recently saw that the introduction of the standard of manning and pedagogical standards could mean that they had to go down. The entire 44 pst. of the small kindergartens they say they're not sure if they'll be able to move on. The government's response has been that they believe the staffing norm is funded because it is met on average. The Managing Director of the PBL stated on his behalf two weeks ago that: ‘The consequence of what is happening now is that the state is squabbling the small and single ones, who are then bought up. So if politicians want to preserve the diversity of ownership, they must take a closer look at this.» The working party is strongly attached to the standard of living, but we're concerned with a norm that works, that makes the kindergartens better, and that doesn't weaken the small and ideal kindergartens. Shares the concerns of the small private kindergartens when they say that the government's design and implementation of the staffing norm can mean that 25 pst. And what will the Council of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e668	I hope that the Workers' Party also agrees that we should have a standard of personnel to ensure that there are a sufficient number of adults in the kindergarten, and that we should have a standard of education that ensures that we have a sufficient number of pedagogical trainers. It is important that we have safe, good kindergartens, where children thrive, where children can play, but also ensure good language development for our children. We know kindergarten is important to the children. So it's true that the private kindergartens have been worried about whether this norm could be critical to the smallest kindergartens. What we have done is that we have ensured both a transitional arrangement in the Financial Regulation, which ensures that private kindergartens are compensated for increased expenditure as a result of reinforced educational standards, and a derogation, so that, if it is critical for the continued operation of the nursery, it is possible for the municipality to grant exemptions from the norm. There are two important steps taken, both through funding and an option of derogation. I'm going to have a meeting with the private kindergartens soon where we're going to have a dialogue on this, and we're of course going to follow this development in the future too, because it's important that we have a diversity in kindergarten. It is important that we now put in place both the standard of education and the standard of living to ensure good competence and a sufficient number of adults. It is important that children thrive in kindergarten, and that children are given the opportunity to develop in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e677	Many, including me, would say that it is better to have a properly established and properly implemented standard that allows for the release of exemptions, exemptions and almost half a standard introduced. The concern that KS, PBL and others have, I believe, is a very strong signal for the government to engage in dialogue with the sector. If the government and the Minister of Knowledge do not want to do anything about financing the funds, one of the handles the Minister of Knowledge can take, is to listen to, among other things. PBL’s desire for a review of the funding system, as there are also challenges with today’s funding model. Private kindergartens receive their contribution based on two-year-old figures. They will initially receive money in two years, but they will meet the norm from August. The working party believes that this requirement is updated by the introduction of a pedagogical norm. When the Council of State is confronted with figures that one of four private kindergartens says they may have to go down, will the Council of State reject or be open to carry out such a review of the funding system, in order to secure the small and ideals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e684	Now I don't know if the representative followed up on my answer, but if the representative Henriksen had done so, he would have heard that I just said that there was a transitional arrangement in the financing regulation that ensures that private kindergartens are compensated for increased expenses as a result of the norm. In other words, we have done this. There's a strange position The Workers' Party has been placed in, as a purely commentator's party, attacking the private kindergartens in one debate, and now it's trying to appear to be the main friend of the private kindergartens. In one debate we want more stringent standards, and now it seems that the Workers' Party wants us to postpone the introduction of the norm. We implement because it is important for children in kindergarten that they have a sufficient number of adults, that there is a sufficient number of pedagogues. It is important for kindergarten to be safe, but also for children to be able to develop in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e693	I thank you for the answer, but that is not what I asked for. I did not ask about transitional arrangements. I asked for, among other things: PBL's wish to review the financial instrument to ensure, inter alia, that: provide the small and ideal kindergartens. On 13 November 2017, the PBL sent an address to the Council of State. Today, the PBL has sent letters to the entire educational committee criticising the fact that the Council of State and the Government have not yet responded to that letter. Some of the reasons for the concern both from the PBL and from many municipalities, including the Council of State's own party trap, the rapporteur in Kristiansand, who believes the norm is underfunded, are that it is not properly investigated or implemented. The Labour Party proposed three years ago, among other things: that the government should present a plan for this deployment, so that it was well prepared. That was the end of the government's party. This case shows that it is important to be well prepared, including. that municipalities and private kindergarten owners are prepared for what is coming. I would like to reiterate the question of whether the Council of State is open to a review of the funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e700	You should always be open to look at the funding system, but if it were up to the Workers' Party, you would probably have tightened up for the private kindergartens. I notice that the representative Henriksen is constantly talking about the small, ideal kindergartens. The small, ideal kindergartens are very nice and an important part of diversity, but I dare remember that half of the children go to private kindergartens. The representative is consistently not talking about the private ones, and this may be because the Workers' Party wants to tighten up on the private kindergartens. Both the nursery standard and the pedagogical norm have been notified for a long time. It is good time for the municipalities and for the kindergarten owners to prepare for this reform, but again we see that the Workers' Party is sitting in the commentator's chair. You like to criticize, but you have few alternatives of your own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e708	There will be follow-up questions – first Nina Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e713	In BT yesterday, Toril Kalsås, the educational leader of a private kindergarten, came with a clear message: The notified standard of manning is too low. In the consultation note, which is the only description of the norm we have received from the government, the ministry says: ‘Since the calculation of the standard shall be based on the number of annual works per child and the opening time of the nursery is usually slightly longer than one working day, the requirement for ground crew will not necessarily be met throughout the day of kindergarten.’ The government norm does not take into account opening times, breaks, cooking, planning or illness. Does the Council of State believe that a standard of navigation is to ensure that the kindergartens experience that they are three young or six large children per adult through kindergarten, or are these norms to be met only as a theoretical desktop exercise in accounting and reporting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e727	I have not met any kindergarten owners – whether they are private or municipal – who view the number of employees in kindergarten as just a figure in an accounting and in a reporting system. Kindergarten owners, whether they are municipal, private or non-profit, are concerned about having good, safe kindergartens, and we have that in Norway. In fact, the parents are very happy with the kindergartens. We're going to be proud of that, we're going to be happy about that, and then we're going to extend further. In the first question from the Workers' Party, I got the impression that it was considered to be a strict standard of manning, but now it is shown that some people believe that the standard of manning is too weak. Well, the standard of manning helps us get a ‘floor’ – that means that no one should have fewer. But, of course, it is possible for kindergarten owners, whether they are private or municipal, to ensure that they have a stricter standard than that to which it is added, if you think it is necessary to create a good and safe kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e734	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e739	Around 40,000 1-year-olds start in kindergarten every year. A research overview from the University of Oslo and Akershus analysed Norwegian and international research. This showed that some of the most important factors for children under the age of three to have a good childcare facility are the sensitivity and ability of employees to engage in important, good relationships with children. Thus, enough adults to see each individual child is crucial for the quality of the offer and the care of the very young. In addition, kindergarten teachers have a three-year education with emphasis on, for example: Relationship competence and, therefore, the professional group in Norway specialising in working with small children in groups, as we do in kindergartens. Many child care teachers are therefore important if the smallest children are to have good childcare facilities. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the youngest children have enough adults and kindergarten teachers to see them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e748	I thank you for the question, and I agree that we will have good staffing, so that there are enough adults in kindergarten. We're going to make sure that there's a sufficient number of educators, and we're going to get that with the new pedagogical norm. Then there will be one pedagogue per seven children under three years of age. We have also contributed, through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, to an increase of 424 million in the framework grant to the municipalities. kr to finance increased costs resulting from the tightening of the standard of education. And now we're going to get it into place. I am pleased that the blue-green government ensures this together with the Christian People's Party – that we both increase basic manning and make sure that there are more educators. Tomorrow, the Stortinget will be considering an important proposal on enhanced language requirements, as it is also important to speak Norwegian in kindergartens. We're also going to help increase the competence of kindergartens, so that there are good, safe kindergartens for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e755	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e760	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge and Integration. On the IMDi website, they state that there is a national sample of residents responsible for concluding an agreement with municipalities on the settlement of refugees. Three factors are taken into account for requests for 2018: population, level of employment and results of the introduction programme over time. It says that there are mainly municipalities with at least 5000 people who have been requested. This is contrary to the will of the Storting. When examining the state budget for 2018, a majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, said that the size of the municipalities should not be decisive for allowing municipalities to accept refugees or not. This means that small municipalities should also be able to settle refugees. From the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, the following proposals were made: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the request to the municipalities for the residence of refugees shall not be based on the selection of municipalities by size, but on the results of integration into social life.’ So it's about how things are going – in work, culture, school, etc. Yesterday, there was a look-up in the Evening Post about the Fafo report, which included: has shown that Somalis have major difficulties in entering the labour market, in paid work, after reviewing the introduction programme. What is really the reason why Storting’s expressed will that even smaller municipalities should be taken into account in the selection of whom to accept refugees, has not been followed up by the Ministry and the IMFI?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e776	I thank you for the question. The first thing that matters is that the government has got control of immigration. This means that the number to be settled now has fallen sharply. In 2017, there were 11,000 residents. This year, 5,000 will be settled. This means that there is much less to be settled in Norwegian municipalities. The municipalities have made a very good effort after the refugee crisis we had, but now it's far less. Then it is true that KS, which is the municipality's organisation, and the authorities, at IMDI, have for the current year assumed that emphasis should be placed on employment rates, results from the introduction programme and municipality size. The reason why the emphasis is also on municipal size is related to the fact that municipal size also says something about the environment of competence in order to ensure that refugees learn Norwegian and get to work more quickly. But that's not an absolute requirement of 5,000. If we look at a municipality like Vinje, they're asked to settle for ten people this year. This means that, even this year, other matters than size are taken into account, as the Storting has also stated. Then the government will follow up the size decision for 2019, so that there is no emphasis on size, but that it is the results of the introduction programme and employment that will be important measurement parameters for who will live in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e787	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State mentions Vinje, because Vinje Municipality has received a price for its work on housing and has many refugees who can show very good results when it is going to be working. So they have succeeded in their integration to a much greater extent than many others. The number from the SSB, which is represented in the nations on February 24, shows that 70.7 pst. Of the immigrants who have lived in Vinje for five to nine years, are at work. Corresponding figures for e.g. The ski is 56.9 and for Porsgrund 61.6. This shows that small municipalities can also do the integration work, and I am glad that the Council of State says that other criteria should be taken into account. But then I have to ask the Council of State: what is the reason why the Department and the Council of State have not followed up the Storting's will for 2018, namely that population numbers should not be decisive for the settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e794	The government has followed up this. Now it's the way KS and IMDI define the criteria. The focus has then been on employment, on the results of the introduction programme and on the size of the municipality, but the example of Vinje shows that size has not been decisive. But then it's a much more important question, and that's how we're going to succeed in integrating into the future. We have ordered a number of reports, which show that there are considerable differences between municipalities in the results achieved in the integration work. I believe it is absolutely essential that those who come to Norway and become part of the Norwegian community become part of large and small communities, learn Norwegian and get into work faster. It is important for us to be able to take care of a sustainable welfare society, to ensure that more people get to work faster, and there are too many differences between municipalities. That is why the government is going to reform the introduction programme, and that is why we are going to implement an integration promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e804	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e809	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The theme is profit-making in well-being, and tax credits are going to give citizens the best possible well-being. Last year, the Stortinget decided to set down a public selection to map the cash flows of commercial companies operating in publicly funded welfare services, such as: in private childcare facilities and private kindergartens. The selection should propose solutions that would ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being, and how to prevent unwanted tax adaptation in companies that are mainly funded by public funds. When the Stortinget debated the government statements, Rigmor Aasrud from the Labour Party asked the government council how this work was going. Governments replied: ‘First of all, by allowing the sample to do its job. And based on that, the government will come back to Stortinget." Based on the result, the selection was reduced and the work was started. I have tried, but I can't find anything about postponing the current selection or who is a member. Therefore, I ask the Council of State: when was the selection reduced, who are members, and how far have they come to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e829	It's true that I answered that during the debate on the government platform, but it's based on that we're going to put this sample down. The committee has to do its job, and then we get back to Stortinget with it. But let me just answer the following question: I agree that it is important to look at how we can deal with unwanted tax adjustment in the area that the representative is now asking about, but also on a general basis. That is why we are systematically also working internationally to establish good cross-border agreements, which allow fewer companies, fewer companies, to avoid taxation in the countries to which they should legitimately tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e836	This was an eye-catching answer. In fact, state councils replied – and confirmed that she replied – as if the selection had already been reduced, and that the selection had to get some rest. And then it's not down yet. It's very critical. It just shows that it's not very important for the government to put in place such a mapping, and that the government party is not concerned about what my and your tax money is actually going to do. It's very much also true of the fact that we can't find any trace of this in the government's political platform either. So I ask again, when is the Council of State going to act? When does the selection fall? And when can the Storting expect a rendition?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e841	What the Workers' Party wanted me to do was to advance the outcome of such a review, and it is impossible for me to do, all that time the review has not yet been completed. As I said in my previous reply, the government is committed to preventing unwanted tax adaptation, and we have implemented a wide range of measures. So no matter how hard the representative shakes his head, this government has done it. We have concluded many good international agreements, which help to combat unwanted tax adaptation in many countries. Clearly, we're concerned about what our tax money goes to – not just what they go to, but that we get as much back for the tax dollars we charge from the population. There is a problem that I hope the Workers' Party will also become more concerned about in the time to come, all the time we now get into a more normal situation and get tighter budgets. This is because we have to improve the value of taxpayers' money, get better results again, and then I hope that the Workers' Party will continue – or perhaps especially in the future – to be more concerned with reforms that will make money use more effective in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e850	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e864	There will be a number of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Anette Trettebergstien to the Prime Minister, has been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Health on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has been removed. The question is moved and answered in response to question 7, to be answered by the same State Council. Question 15, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been away. The question is moved and answered according to question 6, to be answered by the same State Council. Question 16, from the representative Arne Nävra to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e884	‘The President of the United States stated at the press conference after the meeting with the Prime Minister on 10 January on Norway and NATO’s two-percentage target: ‘In Believe Norway will get there quit soon’. At the same time, the government has admitted that Norway is being deleted, not moving towards NATO’s two-percentile target, but that, on the contrary, the GDP share of the defence budget will decline over the next few years. What was the message of the Norwegian Government to the US Government during the talks in Washington about Norway's compliance with our NATO obligations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e891	The United States is our closest ally. We have close and good cooperation, and it was useful to meet President Trump on 10 January. We discussed a number of issues, including: cooperation in defence and security policy, developments in Russia, the situation in Afghanistan and trade and climate issues. In my conversation with Trump, I underlined that the government has increased the defence budgets every year after 2013 and will continue to do so in line with the escalation in the long-term plan. Let me stress that the real increase in the defence budget under this government has been about 24 p.m. This is a significant increase. Both the budgets and the investment share are expected to increase over the next few years. Norway’s significant investment in modern capacities was also a key topic in the conversation. I particularly drew out our purchases of F-35, maritime patrol aircraft and submarines. These will be of great importance, not only to our national defences, but also to NATO's collective security, which President Trump valued. In the Trump meeting, I stated that Norway is the country in NATO that uses the second most in defence per capita after the United States. The discussion of allied burden-sharing is a high priority in NATO. European allies must invest more in European and transatlantic security. The objective of moving towards using a minimum of 2 pst. GDP is fixed for defence purposes. For the period up to 2020, and beyond 2024, the forecasts are filled with significant uncertainty and depend on a number of factors, not least the premises and priorities of the next long-term plan. In the meeting with Trump, I was aware that Norway is currently using almost 1.6 p.p. of gross domestic product for defence purposes, and I assured the US President that Norway is at the heart of NATO's objectives. The basic idea behind NATO Defence Investment Pledge is that the alliance member states should use more in defence. Thus, Norway has substantially increased its defence budgets in recent years, and the long-term plan provides for a further increase in the years to come. There is an increased relative priority of defence in practice, in line with NATO's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e906	This is important for me to clarify: When, after the press conference with the Prime Minister, President Trump says that he believes – not that Norway will increase its defence budgets, and not that Norway will continue to buy fighter aircraft, for we agree – Norway will move towards 2 pst. In order to fulfil NATO's obligations, the Prime Minister has his own calculations showing the exact opposite. We're not moving towards, we're moving away from the goal. It's a pretty important element about the Prime Minister, when she met with our most important allies, actually informed about this. That we use the second most in relation to the number of inhabitants, is something we've done over a long time. Now, what's new is the 2 percent. Did the Prime Minister inform President Trump about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e911	We have had a strong increase in defence budgets in Norway – we have a strong increase in investment, we are well above the investment targets set by NATO. Through routine reporting to NATO, our allies are familiar with developments in Norway’s plans. The forecasts given at different times about the future development of the defence budget's share of GDP are in constant motion. They are associated with significant uncertainties. In this case, the forecasts do not necessarily reflect a changed priority in the defence sector or changes in Norwegian defence policy. As I said in my reply: I have underlined the themes mentioned here, and in the conversation I was ready that Norway today uses almost 1.6 pst. of gross domestic product for defence purposes. I assure you that Norway is committed to NATO's objectives. The government does. Today we have a government that actually prioritises money for increased defence and defence power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e918	But when President Trump says that he believes Norway will reach the 2-percentage mark quite soon, and the Prime Minister is sitting on his own calculations, there is, of course, no match in this description of reality. My question is: have the US authorities contacted the government after the Prime Minister's visit to follow up on the concern that Norway is not approaching the NATO target, but is moving away from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e923	The reports we routinely make to NATO are dealt with in NATO's organs and are part of NATO's decisions. Americans know the evolution of Norwegian appropriations. They are grateful for our increased investment in intelligence, for our increased investment, for the work we are doing within NATO, and for the ability of our forces in the future. There is no reason why they should necessarily come back in detail after the conversation I had with Donald Trump, because it was well-considered in terms of the major and main security policy priorities. But this discussion is going on continuously in NATO, and the Americans are perfectly familiar with how developments are at different times. My ambition is that we should be able to move towards the goal that is set, which we said we should do, with a continued strong commitment to the defence in the future. But there is always considerable uncertainty, not least because we in Norway are now in the midst of an economic development that looks far better than it did two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e933	From the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen to the Prime Minister: ‘The Minister of State presented the new Declaration of Government to the Stortinget on 30 January. In this context, she stressed the importance of work and that ‘The government will therefore take the initiative of including more people into the labour market’. A number of public authorities have for a number of years concluded that cash support weakens the line of work and prevents inclusion. Why does the Prime Minister not see the possibility of strengthening inclusion and the working line by liquidating the cash support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e940	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e948	‘The offer for the Coastal Route expired on 12 February 2018, but the Ministry of Transport has not yet informed about the number of tenders received or the progress of the case. When will the Council of State indicate how many tenders have been received and who has submitted tenders, and when will the Ministry select tenderers or tenderers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e955	The offer of the coast route delivers along the coast from Bergen to Kirkenes is important. It is part of a transport year that many have both become happy and depend on in everyday life. There is also a way to show our coast and our nature on too many tourists, but it is outside the offer. The need for travel for people living along the coast and for business is important. The competition for the provision of maritime transport services on the Bergen–Kirkenes route had a deadline of 12 January. The evaluation of offers and negotiations on them is currently ongoing, and we aim to communicate the award of the contracts as soon as possible. This is an important and extensive competition, and it is not natural for us in that process to go out and tell neither who has submitted a tender nor how many actors there are on the different routes. It is a bit of the job that helps us get the most back for the money and a best offer for the travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e962	I thank you for your answer. This is an important issue for many along the coast, and there is a great interest in the outcome. Therefore, it is of general interest to know if you can keep progress. Can the Council of State indicate when to conclude and what progress has been made in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e967	As of now, progress is good, and that means that we believe that we can award the contracts in line with the timetable you need in order to have the players in place when the contracts are to be entered into. It is important that we have good progress, for if successful operators require new vessels to be built or if today’s actors need new vessels, they must have time to enter the market, contractors, designers, build them up and test them out, so that when the contract enters, they have the vessels with predictability and are able to provide the services they will have. As I said, it is not natural for us now to go out and inform the actors, who, after all, are still in a competitive situation, about how the competitive image is. It could give an actor a lot of information and power, which will affect the price offer that you eventually end up with and make a decision on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e974	A number of requirements are imposed on tenderers, for example: eleven-day sailing, freight and environmental requirements, discussed by Stortinget before Christmas. How will the different areas be weighted in the evaluations of tenders? Will price be the only criterion, or is the quality of the offer assessed? For example, the State has weighted the tender on the Jærban to 60 pst. quality and 40 pst. price. Does the Ministry of Transport carry out similar quality assessments for the coastal route?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e979	We have assumed that there are environmental requirements that need to be met. It's not part of it that you can compete up or down. One can compete on more stringent environmental requirements if one wishes, but there are stricter requirements for emissions and requirements that had not been set before. It places a barrier in the bottom, but the price is primarily evaluated here. At the bottom is also a probability assessment of whether one can deliver what is offered. An actor who has a very low price, but who we do not trust can actually deliver in line with that price – e.g. that a person does not have a proper plan for getting hold of the ships and how to operate them – is likely to be disqualified and not reachable. The quality assessment is the foundation and the price it is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e987	‘A new report from Bane NOR shows that Bane NOR will postpone the intercity expansion in Eastern Europe for several years, contrary to Stortinget’s decision of spring 2017. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the adopted plan of progress of the Intercity project in the East is maintained and implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e994	I thank you for the question. The government is very busy building a good infrastructure across the country. Railways are a central part of it and, in particular, in urban areas in the east and around the major cities of the country, rail is important, and also in the case of long-distance freight transport. This is why government offensive action is in place in the national transport plan – which has been endorsed by the Stortinget – and an offensive approach has been implemented for the railways in the five state budgets that have been so far adopted under the current government. We have seen a strong growth in the number of passengers. There is an increasing customer satisfaction with the services provided by the NSB. There are several train departures, there are several new train sets, and the appropriations for the railway have increased significantly. The last five budgets, adopted under the current government, have allocated a total of 108 billion. kr for railway operations, both investment, maintenance and purchase of services. In comparison, 60 billion were granted in the previous five years. So it's gone from 60 billion. DKK to 108 billion kr. It shows a willingness to bet, and a long-term approach is important, so that one reaches a rate further in the future, has a whole and a good coordination between projects. The ambition that the government has, and that the Storting supports, is solid. There have been no changes there. But in the process, when we turn the National Transport Plan into an action programme, where we are to implement the plan, this is like a multi-step rocket. In the first round, Bane NOR presented its input to the Directorate of Railways. So it's not the final action program, it's the directorate of the Bane NOR organization. The Directorate shall examine this and a number of other inputs within the next few months, consult it and then establish a final action programme. It is the same process that has just been carried out in the Directorate of Roads, which presented its action programme a few weeks ago. In what Bane NOR has put in, they have suggested some adjustments to what has been the government's ambitions. They have identified challenges such as: accommodation services, train bus. They have taken into account an assessment of the entrepreneurial market so that one can have a level playing field and not wide variations. They have provided access to skilled workers in Norway, so that one does not fight too much about them, and they have taken into account how one can get the most back for the money. The recordings that have been made have not been dealt with politically either in the government or in the Storting, naturally enough, but there is something that is now to be dealt with by the directorate. I am concerned that the ambitions that we have fixed are being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1009	Thanks for the answer. Only eight months have passed since the Stortinget adopted the national transport plan, with concrete dates for the completion of the intercity project in individual cities. Formally, the Stortinget does not know either Bane NOR or the Railway Directorate, Stortinget knows the Council of State and expects the Council of State to follow up the decision of the Stortinget. If there were economic problems, with professional skills or with other things, Stortingen expects the council to come back to Stortinget and say, "Here, big ones, there are some problems; then we have to do something like that or something to fix this." Will the Council of State do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1018	When the Storting treated the National Transport Plan, it was based on the most up-to-date figures we had for the various projects at that time. It's a decision that makes the government have got a plan that we're working on. When the Storting makes concrete decisions on individual projects, it is quite natural that changes affecting the decisions taken by Stortinget return to Stortinget as soon as possible. Then we must remember that a national transport plan is a plan, it is not a single decision on individual projects where one also binds the funding. Thus, there is a slightly different feedback policy on it than on projects that the Storting has dealt with separately, which have been through quality assurance, and where one has committed the Stortinget to participating in and granting money. We're going to make sure that the Stortning is informed as much as possible when there's a big change that makes the Storting want to make other assessments. We're going to deliver on it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1025	Thank you. I just want to stress to the Grand Council and to the Council of State why this is so important. For example, in Eastfold, the development of InterCity is very closely linked to the urban packages, and the development of roads is completely interwoven with the development of trains. The same applies to the other cities, considering how they plan urban development. So this isn't something that the railway can do to disconnect everything else, it's very important that it comes at the same time. I understand that the Council of State cannot guarantee anything, but can he guarantee that he will return to Stortinget if the Stortinget has to make other decisions regarding InterCity?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1032	Let me stress that none of the decisions taken by the Stortinget in individual projects – which the Stortinget has dealt with and said we should build this, and start to grant money – have made some changes in it. So there's no reason why we're going to come back now and inform about ongoing projects. But as far as the action programme is concerned, it is not yet certain what it will contain, for the work is done by the Directorate for Railways. When I meet with the Directorate-General for Railways, I am going to highlight in my signals the objectives of the government, to which the Stortinget has joined in the National Transport Plan, so that we can achieve them as best we can. I want us to look at how we can get more money back, so that we can do more and no less than the Stortinget has planned. The most important thing here is that we are able to improve the travel offer for the inhabitants. Getting half-hourly leave in many places can affect people's preferences about how they get to and from work, and that's what must be the basis for all the decisions and the work we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1044	‘In the evening post of 18 February 2018 it appears that Bane NOR will postpone the development of internal intercity. The justification given is that insufficient money has been put aside in the first part of the NTP period 2018-2029. This is contrary to the information provided to Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the National Transport Plan in spring 2017. When did the Council of State first become aware that the real financing need for internal intercity was significantly higher than that proposed by the Government of the NTP?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1051	I thank you for the question, and I am not going to repeat all the efforts that have been made and that confirm the government's willingness and ability to bet on the railway, but I am just going to state that the ambitions that the government has communicated, which were in the national transport plan when it was dealt with in the Stortinget, are at stake. We believe it is important to build a better railway, because it provides a better travel offer. It ensures that people get a simpler everyday life, and then it's important that the railway has both increased capacity, increased frequency and increased predictability, so that people get an offer that they're satisfied with. When the Storting treated the national transport plan last year, it was based on the best available information on costs and on time perspectives, etc. So, Bane NOR, in his part of making recordings to the Directorate of Railways, has had a review of many of the projects to get the most up-to-date data base to get the best possible picture of the situation. New information has obviously come up that some projects have become more expensive and other projects appear to be more complicated, and one has also looked at the overall picture. If one has too many projects at once, it can create challenges in the entrepreneurial market that will actually deliver capacity, and not least it could create significant chaos problems around Oslo S by bus for trains in many directions at once. That is what underlies the assessments that have been made. We became aware that Bane NOR was going to propose alternative approaches compared to NTP. We knew about that. nine to ten days before submission. Then we got access to a draft press release, and there was also a copy of Bane NOR's then draft action programme. Well, it was presented on February 18th, we became familiar with this on February 9th. In line with the railway reform we have implemented, where Bane NOR is to be our infrastructure manager, they – as a company with their own board – have worked on this without the department having sat and overrun them, it is the task of the board. We're sending control signals, they're delivering on it. However, in advance of this being sent to the Directorate for Railways, we received a little notice of what was going to be there. The matter is now under consideration in the Railway Directorate. We're assuming they're going to spend a few months on it. They're going to handle the recordings that came from Bane NOR. There will be consultation among external parties, and they will also make their assessments. It is important that it is the Directorate of Railways that is the strategic unit within the railway. They're the ones who are going to link all of this together. Then Bane NOR's recording is important, but far from being exclusive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1062	Governments have a lot of nice words about trains. We also know that the Progress Party and the Government are planning to disburse billions of billions on new asphalt, and they will finance this through tolls, which will result in more traffic and car dependence and impose higher costs on car owners. Once there is resource scarcity on expansion, the government instinctively always prioritised the car first. We see that in this case as well. Given our efforts to reduce emissions for the transport sector also from a climate perspective: will the Council then move funds from the road sector, in order to avoid delays in the development of internal InterCity, without the total volume of installations becoming so high that it cuts the cost framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1069	There are several things in this. I believe it is important to facilitate the competitiveness of Norwegian entrepreneurs in building infrastructure, especially in our own country, and to ensure that Norwegian labour force is put into service is also a goal for me. I think it is good that our development actors, both Bane NOR, Nye Veier, Statens vägvesen, Kystsverket and others, look at the possibility of using the Norwegian market as best they can. It's not right that the railway will always be down-prioritized and the road will always be up-prioritized. It is important that we have a balance here, because we need to have a variety of transport services in a diverse country. It is not that we can always say that the car is trapped, and that all other forms of transport are good, as the Greens say in many debates. We must invest in all these areas. That's why in the last few years we've seen a strong commitment both on the railways and on the road, but the road projects we're going to start are not necessarily in exactly the same place as the railway projects, so removing good communication in one region to build it in another region is what I'm against. I would rather work to cut costs in railway projects, so the money goes to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1076	The Council of State probably understands the reason why we react so strongly to this, because the NTP has just been adopted. There, a balance is promised, as the Council of State says, a promise both in bag and in bag. But suddenly the bag disappeared, and now we're just left with the car in the bag. And it's clear that the whole region of Eastern Europe needs InterCity, because it's crucial to get an environmentally friendly Oslo region well connected. Will the Council of State ensure that the currently announced unacceptable delay is prevented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1083	It's a little strange that someone who wants only a bag, accuses me that the bag gets too much. We believe that a good balance between bag and bag is good, and we're not going to try to move money from railway to road or vice versa. But ensuring good cost control both in the bag and in the bag is essential here. That is why we are working hard to keep the cost growth down on the road. We have said in connection with several road projects that one must look at how one can build cheaper. The case concerns E16 to Kongswinger, and the case concerns E6 to Gudbrandsdalen. New Veier withdrew his contract with the E39 from Kristiansand to process it in order to recover, just to keep costs under control. So we're going to do the same thing on the railway. To say that one should not have cost control, while the other should have it, I am against. But it's important that we get that balance in place, and we see that with government policy, the emissions from road traffic are going down. The Green Party itself believes that we should have emission-free cars in the future, and then the climate problem will be solved for car traffic as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1091	‘Summer 2017, there was a major problem with the lack of toilet capacity in several national tourist roads. For example, Lofoten, who has had growing winter tourism, has also become a problem that the toilets are winter connected. Is it possible for the Council of State to take action to improve the toilet capacity along national tourist roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1098	I thank you for the question. As a granddaughter, I have experienced the importance of toilet facilities along the roads in order to make a long drive a good experience and not a little nightmare. Making sure that one can stop and stretch on its legs at regular intervals, preferably in public service spaces, but at least alternately in service stations, etc., is important. We've also been concerned that we're going to make the money go any further, so that one doesn't necessarily spend the money on very fancy architectural design, but with limited capacity on the toilet side, but rather builds up so that one has more capacity and gets to meet the functional needs. In the summer, five new projects will be opened that will increase the toilet capacity along part of the national tourist roads. This applies in Ryfylke, on Hardangervidda, along the Helgeland coast, on Andeya and in Lofoten. In addition, measures will be put in place to strengthen the provision of toilet services elsewhere, for example: Stegastein on the Aurlands mountain. It is also important that we sort out the facilities that already exist — that they function, that they are open as much as possible, that they are perceived as attractive to travellers, and that there is also sufficient information. There will be better information in both Norwegian, English and German. The Swedish Road Service has informed us that in 2017–2018 eight of them are together ten toilets along the E10 in the Lofoten Winter Open. Eight out of ten are open in winter – it shows that the offer is relatively good, although there are therefore two closed. In our national transport plan, we have committed to implementing a further 46 new measures along national tourist roads by the end of 2023. Many of them involve toilet facilities and will be partly implemented with county municipalities and municipalities. In addition, we expect and expect other actors to provide facilities that strengthen the overall provision of toilet services. When I drove E6 from the Kirkenes to Oslo this summer, we spent seven to eight days on the trip, and one of the things I weighed on the trip was to stop at rest places for truck drivers, which is a supplement to the rest area facilities in total. There are many places built good and nice, but the nude facilities, which allow both for the shower and to sit down, but also the toilet. So the situation is getting better and better, but it's obvious that some places aren't good enough, and that's why we're working on strengthening the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1109	I thank you for your answer. I myself was in Lofoten at the same time as the Council of State last week, and then, in meeting with the tourism industry, I experienced that they were very dismayed by the situation. Now tourists come in winter too. It's very nice that we've expanded the season, but I also saw the look-up that the Evening Post had today about the new facilities for national tourist roads, where part of the new toilet facilities as the state council here mentioned were depicted. I have to say that even if I registered that the state council of a NRK interview last year was critical of the so-called gold dates, these new facilities still appeared as gold dates and not as capacity necessary to receive and provide our tourists with the necessary contribution. I believe that there is still a lack of capacity for the upcoming summer season.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1114	The question was about open toilets in Lofoten. As I said, according to the information we get, eight out of ten are open in winter. Then you can always work to get the last two in place, but that's not capacity at all, is not right. I address the challenge that the representative addresses in terms of the standard of what is to be built in the future. For me, it is important that we be able to meet the objectives of national tourist roads as both local players, who like to participate and co-finance some places, and the Storting wants to achieve, in the best possible way. If the Storting gives us signals that we can actually four a little bit more on the architectural expression rather than looking at the functional averaging, it's a signal that I more than like to take with me further. I think the vast majority, when they're in a distress situation, are more concerned that they get done what they should, than that it looks pretty while they wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1121	I think that the local forces also want to be involved and contribute to it. The great national tourist facilities and roads that are established, and which have been spent many billions establishing, do not seem particularly attractive to tourists, and there will be bad advertising for us when we don't manage to have enough capacity. We can travel in other countries and look at the facilities and the way they are kept. We have neither the corresponding capacity nor the required operational quality. A local tourist tax has been introduced and calls for it to be established in order to participate and contribute to the operation of the necessary capacity. Is there a measure discussed in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1126	I'm skeptical right away to solve challenges by just introducing a new fee. All in all, I believe that the tourist influx, to Lofoten in this case, is good for the region, not negative. It creates jobs, it spends money, it creates activity, and one gets used more of the capacity that has been used well for summer time, but less used for winter time. The fact that a person is involved and takes some of the responsibility locally by facilitating what is for his own income, I think it is natural. Every time you have to finance what's really for your own profit, it's not the approach that I choose myself. But I'm going to promise that the State Road Service and the government will help one develop the toilet facilities further both in Lofoten and elsewhere, both within the framework of national tourist roads and for all the other roads where people travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1131	We're going to question No. 15, which has moved forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1139	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1144	The question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is: ‘In its opinion on the development of the Yme field, the Environment Directorate pointed out that the investigations into electrification are inadequate. Will the Council of State carry out proper investigations before decision is taken and will the plans for development be submitted to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1151	Oil and gas industries are important to our nation. It creates jobs, it creates values that we all enjoy. What's very funny about the Yme field is that it's one of the fields that was previously shut down, but that one now sees the possibility to start up activity in. The Ministry of Oil and Energy received a modified plan for the expansion and operation of the Yme field from the operator Repsol on 19 December 2017. The project is based on an initial field from 2007, which was shut down, and includes the re-use of existing infrastructure in the field. It's also positive. In addition, they intend to rent a detectable platform with combined drilling and processing facilities. An addendum to the original impact assessment was developed to address changes since the original plan of 2007. The investigation was at the public hearing in the autumn of 2017, and it was in this context that the Directorate for the Environment made its hearings, where they, among other things, took place. had comments related to force from land. In particular, as a result of these consultations, the operator decided to develop an updated force from the country report. The operator reviewed the updated results of the report in a meeting with the Environment Directorate in advance of the PUD submission. In addition, the report has been made available on the operator’s website. So there has been further investigation work than what the representative refers to. The updated report shows that the cost of using force from countries to Yme is high. The cost of action per tonne of CO 2 saved on the base is at least NOK 3400. It's much higher than what you've estimated before. The investment costs are calculated at 2.3 billion. kr for this measure. Plans for the expansion and operation of Yme are being processed in the Oil and Energy Department now. The energy solution to the field on Norwegian pedestal is treated as part of the Authority's work on an extension. This is also true for Yme, and this has been standard practice for some decades now. Total expected investment in the Yme project is 8.2 billion. kr, i.e. well below the limit of 20 billion. kr, as indicated in Stortinget’s mandate for the Ministry of Oil and Energy to approve the extension project on a Norwegian base. In line with the mandates, the Ministry of Oil and Energy will deal with an amended PUD for the Yme field without presenting the matter to the Stortinget. So the essence here is that yes, the Environment Directorate pointed this out in the hearing. However, after the consultation was completed, Repsol has done a new job, which has been discussed with the Environment Directorate, which means that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in its decision-making process has more information than was the case in the original investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1171	I thank you for your answer. I have one supplementary question, and it depends on whether the matter is submitted to Stortinget or not, where the Council of State said this matter does not come to Stortinget. The majority of the population has set a limit of 20 billion. kr for extensions to the Storting, but there is also a clause under which, if there are other social considerations in the case, it shall also apply to the Stortinget. I want to ask the Council of State what social considerations he sees must be the basis for such matters, even if they cost less than 20 billion. kr, however, comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1182	At least I don't think the Yme investment is something that obviously has to be presented to the Magnitude for that reason. I would like to imagine that matters where you would like to have significant interests on land, which have been highly debated politically, can be matters where you would like to come to the Stortinget. Things where you use completely new ways of developing a project, which means that the Storting will have an interest in having a word in the team, can be of such a kind. If the representative wants a more complete list, I think a written question for the answer is the best way to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1189	Then we go back to question 7, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1197	‘According to a report by the Regional Perinatal Committee in Health South-East, one third of the children dying in their mother’s stomach could be afraid. Pregnancies with a migrant background experience more stillbirths than other pregnant women, and the same is true of older and obese pregnant women. Professionals call for better follow-up in pregnant women at risk. What concrete action will the government take to strengthen Norwegian maternity care and prevent stillbirths?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1204	The quality of maternity care in Norway is high in the international context, and Norway is among the countries with the lowest newborn mortality. On a national basis, the number of deaths occurring during and immediately after birth is reduced from around 167 in 2014 to 147 in 2016. This is a positive development. As the representative Toppe pointed out, the risk of stillbirth is higher in some groups than in others. In particular, pregnant women with a migrant background, older and obese pregnant women and pregnant women with gestational diabetes, as reported by the Perinatal Committee. This means that it is important to reach women at risk and other vulnerable groups early in pregnancy, among others. through the provision of services at health centres. Most pregnant women are followed up in midwifery at the health centre, in the permanent care centre or in both. The government has significantly strengthened the capacity of health stations in recent years. In 2018, it was granted over 1 billion. kr for the service, and we are now beginning to see an increase in midwifery, as well as other professional groups. This means that the government’s systematic commitment to health and school health services results. The Health Directorate has developed several national professional guidelines in this area, such as the National Professional Guideline for Pregnancy Care and the National Professional Guideline for Pregnancy Diabetes. These guidelines are important tools for health professionals in maternity care and contribute to the planning of care according to the degree of risk involved. The guidelines provide recommendations for follow-up and further reference to the specialist healthcare service. For example, ultrasound is recommended in week 36 for women with gestational diabetes, and it is recommended that women who are additionally morbidly overweight are referred to the specialist health service. The guidelines for gestational diabetes also recommend the follow-up of women with a background from countries with a high risk of gestational diabetes. The guidelines are regularly updated, and the Directorate-General for Health announces that a new version of the guidelines for maternity care will be published in the summer. In this context, it is recommended that older pregnant women between the ages of 37 and 40 should be considered for follow-up to the specialist healthcare system. Health South-East has obtained information from some of the women's clinics in the region. They state that efforts are being made to improve the follow-up of pregnant women in order to prevent complications and perinatal deaths. Not all women are aware of the potential health benefit of attending a doctor or midwife early in pregnancy. This is why the Directorate is developing patient information in several languages and services to ensure the use of interpreters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1219	Thanks for the answer. When the perinatal committee, i.e. those with pregnancy and maternity care in Health South-East, shows that 44 of the 147 deaths in 2016 could have been avoided if the pregnant woman, the midwife, had a better follow-up, it is quite serious. According to the leader of the committee, they ask for two things. The one thing is if not immigrant women can be registered as a risk group and followed up then, and not be dependent on having other diagnoses, such as gestational diabetes. The second is if not the first time born with a migrant background can get an extra ultrasound check in week 36. They have asked Health South-East about this. Does the Council of State think there might be something that the Department would consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1226	This type of issue is, of course, possible for the Committee to address its own health region, but it is also possible to address it in the context of the work carried out by the Directorate in the context of the national guidelines. It is actually in the processes that this kind of question – in my opinion – belongs to, because we also want this to be practised the same across the country and that it does not vary from region to region. The question of which women are to be offered additional ultrasound examinations during pregnancy is precisely one of the issues raised in the national guidelines and followed up by the service. I feel that there is a strong involvement of the professional community in the development of the guidelines. It is then natural that this is a question addressed by the professional community in connection with the work now being done in the Directorate, in the context of the summer guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1233	The Regional Perinatal Committee, which has called for warning of the death of women with a migrant background, also sends a statement of concern to the Medical Director of Health South-East in August last year on the general food supply. This was due to an increased incidence of adverse events. It was like serious bleeding, high blood pressure, infections and depression in mother. In children, there is talk of dehydration, weight loss, jaundice, infections and undetected heart failure. They think these events could have been avoided if one had organized a midwife on home visits after home. So they have a message of concern for the short lay period, which we had a debate on here before today. We have been responsible for creating a scarecrow of maternity care, but is it not up to the state council when the perinatal committee comes up with such concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1242	I think it is very important that these kind of professional committees give feedback to the professional management of health regions if they experience a development that they think is negative, and that they make suggestions and input into it. It is exactly the way I believe we have developed one of the best offers in this area until now. I also believe that it is the type of assessment that must be used to further strengthen the offer. I am aware that when it comes to ensuring that we receive a good follow-up service in the municipalities, both in pregnancy and after birth, it is a political responsibility to ensure that there is a midwife service available in the municipalities. I take that responsibility with the government by both introducing legal requirements that there should be midwifery competence in the municipalities and by earmarking funds and providing other means for municipalities to build up this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1249	Then we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1257	This question, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Health on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1262	‘During the examination of the defence’s long-term plan last year, the government informed the Storting that the defence budget’s share of GDP in 2020 was expected to be between 1.58 and 1.71 p.m. and that the share would in any case increase. On 24 January this year, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy stated that the GDP share would be about 1.5 p.m. in 2020. Why does the government now expect, over a year later, that the share of the defence budget in GDP will be lower in 2020 than that of the informed Stortinget during the treatment of the defence's long-term plan?"
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1269	In the response given to the Stortinget in June 2016 during the examination of the long-term plan for the defence sector, it was clearly underlined that there is a significant uncertainty related to the projections made around the projections of GDP shares. This is the case today, and that was also the case in the summer of 2016 when this answer was given. The response then given, with significant reservations, estimates a potential GDP share in 2020 within a significant range. This illustrates this uncertainty. The government has followed up the ambition level of the Stortinget through the examination of the long-term plan for the defence sector. We're still going to do this. A solid plan has been put in place to strengthen the defence. The plan is firm – both measures and budgetary escalation. The Government has not changed its defence policy or its clear priorities in the defence sector and NATO cooperation. The government's goal of moving in the direction of using 2 pst. GDP is fixed for defence purposes. Both the defence budgets and the investment share are expected to increase over the next few years. This is in line with NATO's goal. Defence budgets have increased every year since 2013 and will continue to increase in line with the escalation in the long-term plan. With this government, the real increase in the defence budget has been about 24 p.m. The forecasts given at different times about the future development of the defence budget's share of GDP are in continuous motion with considerable uncertainty. They will therefore also be able to vary significantly over time. The recent forecasts communicated to the Stortinget are not an expression of a changed priority for the defence sector. In all the replies given to the Storting, the Government has been clear about the uncertainty contained in such forecasts. They grabbed and the bet that this government is doing takes us in the right direction. To achieve a situation where Norway uses 2 pst. At the same time, GDP for defence purposes will require significant framework increases in the coming years. We have also been open and clear on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1286	That it's important to achieve the 2 pst. goal, of course, isn't because it's 2 pst. But because it's an important commitment to our closest allies in NATO, there are great challenges in the Army, there's a great need for, for example. new investments in tank capacity, we have a scale-down home protection, and we have a education reform that is perceived as a savings reform for all those who have the uniform. In the response of Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen, it says that in 2018 the share of GDP going for defence will be 1.56 p.m., while the share going for defence in 2020 will be 1.5 p.m. So it goes down — opposite the escalation that the Right has adopted at its national meeting and that the Progress Party has adopted at its national meeting. It's a weakening, not a strengthening of the share of GDP. Then is my follow-up question: Is the Vice-Chairman of the Right and Council of State Höie familiar with the answer to the Minister of Defence that the share of GDP to be used for defence goes down, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1293	There is no doubt that there is a significant reinforcement of defence. It puts up both the budgets and the long-term plan, and I'm very familiar with that. To the annual fluctuations in the share of GDP-related expenditure: the representative knows very well that it will fluctuate, and this type of forecast is filled with considerable uncertainty, precisely because there is also, of course, considerable uncertainty about how GDP will turn from year to year. Fortunately, we are now in a very positive development in the Norwegian economy, not least thanks to the correct and important transformation that the government has contributed to. It is something that should please the representative, and when it is combined with a real strengthening of defence, it is what matters, not least for those who wear the uniform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1298	I experience the answer from Vice-Chairman and State Council Bent Höie from the Right as speaking down 2 pst.- the goal and that it is no longer a goal for the Right and the government to go towards 2 pst. In the answer to Frank Bakke-Jensen, who was given in writing to the Stortinget, the Right and the Government say that they want to go the other way, and that's what's going to happen, that you go from 1.56 pst. to 1.5 pst. Is it really a measure of the Right in government to reach 2 pst. in 2024? Or is it going to be a kind of number discussion that it Höie puts up to now all the way, and trying to get around the clear commitment we have to our NATO allies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1303	Neither the undersigned nor Frank Bakke-Jensen have invited you to this number discussion. That's what the representative has done. The answer given to the representative is as clear each time. The government is clearly in the Jeløia platform that the goal, to move towards using 2 pst. of GDP for defence purposes, is established. It's in the Right Program, it's in the Government Platform, and that's what the government's policy is. I saw that the representative was also in the room when the Prime Minister answered a question about this earlier, and I expect the representative to get the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1308	Then we go to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1317	‘The state of law within the EU and the EEA is developed through the implementation of new legislation and the interpretation of existing legislation in the EU, including the re-interpretation of the scope of the basic principles of free movement of goods, services, capital and labour. What is the possibility for this Norwegian authorities to issue guarantees of future national freedom of action in areas where we give EU competence through the EEA, for example related to energy regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1324	The EEA Agreement is based on the assumption of a uniform European economic area. EEA law is therefore to develop equivalent to EU law as a starting point. In areas covered by the EEA Agreement, new EU acts are expected to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, but EEA and EFTA States may request adaptations where necessary. Like the EU Court of Justice, the EFTA Court will interpret and develop EEA law in its opinion on the understanding of EEA law. Decisions taken by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, may also have an impact on the practice of EEA law. Consequently, it follows from the EEA Agreement that decisions of the courts and the ESA could have an impact on the development of Norwegian law in the areas covered by the scope of the EEA Agreement. Like the other EEA countries, Norway has the opportunity to influence this legal development, including: by means of observations explaining the Norwegian understanding of EEA law in proceedings before the EFTA Court and the European Court of Justice. The representative, Mr Gielsvik, addresses his question as to whether we can guarantee national freedom of action related to the regulation of energy. I have to assume that he is aiming at the proposition that Stortinget has for treatment, to include the third energy market package. For this reason, I would like to make it clear that even after the inclusion of the third energy market package, Norway will retain full sovereignty over its energy resources. The connection to Acer will not affect the ownership of the Norwegian power resources. Norwegian authorities shall continue to determine concessions for power plants, electricity networks and foreign tables. We also have control over the deployment of the mains. In other words, Norwegian authorities will continue to be responsible for Norwegian energy policy. I would also like to add that – as the representative has probably already received – the further assessment made by the Legal Service of the issue of the legal status in relation to the independence of the Administrative Board was delivered to the Energy and Environment Committee yesterday afternoon. It has probably already seen the representative – and its conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1341	What I specifically asked about was related to the regulation of energy. It can be done, among other things: on the use of the cables in the future, for example, the extent to which it will have energy based on long-term contracts or spot price contracts, and, inter alia, how. the regulatory authority will deal with it. One of our leading experts on the Constitutional Light, Eivind Smith, says to the class struggle: ‘How EU cooperation in the energy field evolves to next year or 2025, so the Solberg government cannot do anything about it, that is. It's as simple as that." He goes on to say: ‘But how, in a few years’ time, the European Agency will interpret this, or what will come with the next Union package — it is not something the government can do about it.’ Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree with what the jurist here says? And can the Foreign Minister confirm that we can hope from the Norwegian side, we can believe, but we cannot promise, and we cannot provide any guarantees for future developments within the European Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1358	I can basically just repeat what I said in my answer, namely that, even after the inclusion of the third energy market package, we will maintain full sovereignty over the energy resources. Norwegian authorities will be responsible for the handling of concession requests. There is also control over the deployment of the electricity grid — and also the overall responsibility for Norwegian energy policy. The representative of Gjelsvik is also well aware that Norway is already very closely integrated in the EU energy market. It will bring great benefits to be able to participate fully in the Agency for Cooperation, ACER, because this is an important field for Norway as a major energy export nation. It's especially in the gas field this is important to us. What has emerged in the discussions that have taken place has been particularly related to the constitutional issue. It has now been investigated in two rounds, with two different starting points, and the conclusion is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1367	One of the conclusions of the Law Department is that there is a transfer of authority, i.e.: that we give sovereignty to the EU. I have to say that it is almost unreal to experience that one from the Norwegian side still gives the impression that one can give a guarantee or a promise of what will be the future development within the EU, an organisation of which we are not a member, an organisation with different interests from ours. Only to take an example from the time the EEA Agreement was concluded. We had a big discussion about the possibility from the Norwegian side to, for example. to have restrictions on capital movements and concession arrangements. It was assumed that as long as there was no difference between the Nordics and non-residents, it was okay. That understanding — and this was also reviewed by the Bondevik Government in 2002 — was based on correspondence with the European Commission, where the European Commission stated in formal letters to Norway that in their view it could not be considered to be contrary to the rules on the free movement of capital. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1374	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1379	Then there were changes in retrospect. What does it say about the ability of Norwegian authorities to govern future developments in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1384	I assume I can also answer for 2 minutes, since the question was asked in 2 minutes! I think it's important to be precise about what the Law Department has just said, because it creates the impression that this is a waiver of sovereignty that requires a special majority in accordance with the Constitution. It is essential to stress that the law department here has laid down, and which is very clear in the letter sent to the Energy and Environment Committee yesterday, is that the Law Department finds that ‘the cutting of the King's instruction authority is being very modest’, that it must be regarded as ‘lowly intervening’, and that it can go according to the ordinary rules. I believe it is important to maintain that this discussion also has significant over and undertones of what is generally considered to be both the EEA Agreement and the EU. This is important for Norway. It is important for Norwegian energy policy. We maintain full sovereignty over our energy resources and full responsibility for Norwegian energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1398	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: ‘In 2017, the police had their operating centre in Sogn and Fjordane closed down and merged with Hordaland. 13 February 2017 NRK Sogn and Fjordane report the following: «Registration signal, line queue and difficulty in getting through. There is the experience of many Western police district residents when they call the police.’ Does the Council of State mean that this situation increases the confidence of the elected representatives responsible for police reform?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1407	I would like to begin by saying that the basis for a better police service has been laid through the establishment of the new police districts, with larger operational centres, better performance and a stronger environment of competence. There was a need for that. Through the close police reform, all operation centres in all police districts have increased the number of operator stations. This helps to ensure that there may be more operators on guard at any time. New operating centres are now operational in 10 out of 12 police districts. Operational centres in East and South-East police districts will be operational on 1st quarter 2018. This is a clear strengthening compared to the situation we had before the reform. I'm familiar with the situation at the Operation Centre in the West Police District. I was informed by the Directorate of Police that this could be explained with technical aspects and challenges related to staffing. This has already been addressed by the police officer. There is planned to be a telephone response coming in the spring of 2018, the number of lines entering the operating centre will be increased, and information will be provided to the public about the situation. The police district plans to increase staffing at the Operation Centre by about 14 posts in 2018. Pending the availability of these posts, staff from other units are brought in to strengthen the operating centre. There is good reason to expect that the capacity of the telephone line 02800 will be improved with increased manning and line capacity. The security and security of the population must be ensured and, of course, has the highest priority. The service shall also be available with good service. This is a key goal for the police. In this context, it is worth noting that trust in the police increased in 2017, despite the fact that we are in the middle of implementing the police reform. The employee survey carried out throughout the police investigation in the autumn of 2017 shows that there is a high level of satisfaction among employees. This is unique for Norway compared to the other Nordic countries, which have also implemented a police reform. I expect the measures taken and planned by the West Police District will improve the situation, so that the citizens have good access to the police. The Western Police District Operation Centre is new, reform work is demanding, and we may all have to show some patience before we can seriously start reaping the benefits of the near-police reform. Finally, I would like to remind you that there was a broad agreement in the Stortinget behind the decision on the near-police reform. I believe that trust in us as elected representatives will depend on whether we are able to implement the decisions that have been decided upon. At the same time, we need to trust those who are set to implement the reform and the implementation of the reform is on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1424	The closure of the West Police District Operation Centre was politically controversial. People were concerned about what was going to happen, and turbulence was peculiar to the fact that there would be less local knowledge and competence of those who accepted the phones. The situation that has now arisen, and as described correctly by the Council of State, is the result of the fact that at the time of the creation of the Joint Police Operation Centre, one had not thought of having multiple lines to the operating centre for the telephones to arrive. It is also obvious that one had not taken the height of the number of people who had to be in place and answer the phones at the other end. This should now be resolved after the closure is a fact, and the operating centre should be up and going from one day to the next. I feel as a people's power this as very little defensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1431	There will always be concern when implementing changes. You always know what you have, but you don't know what's coming. Then it turns out in most cases that the offer is getting better – the few wanting to go back. So that's how unforeseen things arise. It's also done here, because you see that you have to hire more, you have to put more lines in place, you have to make sure that the offer gets better. I am very pleased that the work has been started, and that this has been taken very seriously. I'm looking forward to these relationships being as they should be, namely that we have enough lines and enough staff to attend to these contacts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1440	I don't feel like the Council of State is going into the specific situation. This has been a very long planned and controversial political reform. One had time to make these things clear. So there's a lot of things that have to go beyond time. But as a general election, I'm very, very concerned when a matter as simple as it is to put lines into a new operating centre and to have people in place who can take the phones, don't let themselves be solved from day one. Then I feel a very great concern for other aspects of this reform that are more difficult for both the audience and the police, who are going to do a good job, and us elected to stick to. This is also reflected in the entire economic savings potential that has been envisaged in some of these centralisation measures, when one actually did not have an overview of the number of people in place to pick up the phones.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1445	Now I haven't been in this job for so long, but I've already jerked off to visit more police districts, not West Police District as Minister of Justice. What I see is that the work out there is essentially on track. So it's clear that even if you plan very well, there will sometimes be challenges that you haven't taken into account. Then I believe that the most important thing for the trust in us as politicians and the trust in the police, in those who are to perform these services is to take hold of it and actually correct it. I am very pleased that it seems that the West police district has done in this matter. Then I hope that this will work out very quickly, so that the audience will have the offer when they call the police. Then there is also reason to stress that the emergency call service 112 is in charge, which is the most important telephone number the police handle. There you quickly get in touch with the police when you really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1457	‘ABE reform resulted in a cut in the 200 million prison budgets. Dr, and the prison agreement with the Netherlands has led to nearly one billion. I have been sent out of the country within three years. Recently, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare warned that the budgetary situation for 2018 was ‘almost unmanageable’. As a result of the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, 89 million were allocated. kr to extend the agreement with the Netherlands. However, when the agreement is not to be extended, will the Council of State guarantee that these funds will be redeployed to the police in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1464	When the government and the Advance Party joined in 2013, the red-green parties left more than 1,200 people in the queue. The government thought new to get rid of this queue that is provocative for the victims and unfortunate for the perpetrators who have to wait to settle. The plots needed to get rid of the settlement queue were not found in Norway. The alternative to renting places in the Netherlands is that there would still be a housing queue in Norway. At the time of the start of the agreement with the Netherlands, the settlement queue was more than 1,000 judges. There were, as mentioned above, no other real alternatives to the rapid provision of the necessary prison sites. In addition, it has given the opportunity to clean up poor building masses in connection with some of our existing prisons, such as Ullersmo where I was visiting last week. As the housing queue has now been abolished in practice, our assessment is that we can address the expected need for high-security prison sites for the use of temporary dualisation in Norway until prison in Agder is ready in 2020. This is a recommendation from the Directorate of Criminal Welfare with the support of the trade unions and an important reason why the government has decided not to extend the agreement beyond the ordinary term of 31 August 2018. The economic consequences of not extending the agreement will be dealt with in budgetary terms. Renting of prison places in the Netherlands has been a success and has solved a problem in four years that the previous government has not been able to solve on a lasting basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1475	I am very pleased that the prison agreement with the Netherlands has been concluded, but at the same time we see that there is a very demanding situation in the criminal justice system here in Norway. Crime itself says they're in a very stressed budgetary situation that's going on in security. Now that we have resigned from the prison agreement in the Netherlands, it frees some of the funds that have to go back to the criminal justice system in Norway. In addition, the Council of State says that duplication should be used, and then there are new concerns about whether that duplication is being followed up with resources that allow sufficient staffing for the prisoners. Then I would like to ask the question again: can the Council of State guarantee that the funds used in the Netherlands go to the resource situation and the criminal services in Norway, and will duplication be followed up with sufficient resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1482	We do not conduct budgetary proceedings in the Grand Duchy's Question Time. We have to get back to that question later. In the case of duplication, resources will have to be made available to have two people on each cell in a number of prisons where there is room for it. It is clear that it must both finance several employees in these prisons concerned and finance the content of these prisons and give it to those who will be there, as well as those who are already there. So this is the relationship we'll get back to. External consultants have now looked at the ABE reform during the 2012-2016 analysis period and produced a report that points out that there has been no significant impact on security and service provision in criminal matters. An update is being carried out, so that the figures for 2017 are also included. But there is no doubt that prison services too need to operate more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1491	We have received strong signals from the prison sector that the ABE reform has not gone beyond bureaucracy, but has gone beyond professional work and the employees who work on the floor with the prisoners. Norsk Fengsels- und Freiömorgsförbund has said that they are experiencing a steep decline in professional work and are concerned about the consequences of, among other things. Prisoners are becoming more isolated, and prison rehabilitation is getting worse. The Jeleia Platform states that the government will work for a more rehabilitating criminal enforcement system by placing greater emphasis on the content of the settlement. But how does the government's budget cut contribute to the government's intentions according to the Jeløya platform, which is a more rehabilitating criminal execution process and has more emphasis on the content of the settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1498	The annual budgets still need to be examined when they are available. Of course, we are now in a process and are working on the 2019 budget, but I think there are opportunities to operate more effectively in prison as in all other areas. We have to look at how to operate in this area as well. We need to look at the need for detention places in the future. We see that there is a decrease in the number of judges and in the number of zones, and we see that there is less need for low security places. But we see that the need for high security is slightly higher than what we can offer today in Norway, and therefore we are doubling places. But this is the relationship that we come back to from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1510	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: ‘In the 2018 state budget, Stortinget granted SEK 30 million for increased police work in Oslo South. There is a great need for this effort to be targeted at taking the cynical main characters in the criminal gangs, stopping their recruitment of young people and giving the population an increased sense of security. Is the plan for the use of the DKK 30 million completed, and can the Council of State say whether they will be used in particular for the demanding work of taking the backers and providing visible police presence, such as mobile police posts in the most vulnerable places?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1519	I would like to take the opportunity to say that I share the commitment of the representative Jan Bøhler in this matter. Young people shall not be recruited into criminal gangs, the rearmen must be taken, and it shall be felt safe to live in all parts of Oslo. The State budget for 2018 is therefore set at 30 million. kr for a reinforced police effort in Oslo South, while the separate investment in Greenland in Old Oslo City has continued at the same level as in 2017. Enhanced police action in Oslo South will help prevent crime, with particular emphasis on the follow-up of young people in the risk zone, and prevent recruitment to crime-related environments. No further guidance has been provided in the letter of allocation to the Directorate of Police for 2018 in addition to what appears in the budget proposal. It is important to recognise the Commissioner’s right and duty to make a concrete priority within the framework and overall leadership and to find the right measures locally. The Police Directorate informs me that they are working with the Oslo Police District to draw up concrete plans for the use of the allocation. It shall include, inter alia: extra emphasis is placed on the follow-up of young people in the risk zone to prevent recruitment to the environment that commits crime, and efforts to prevent crime, better integration and the safe living environment. I have also been informed that through the initiative Oslo Police District wants to have a clear and visible presence as well as several dedicated staff who know the audience and youth in the area. I have also been informed that ten new police posts will be published in the field of crime prevention. They also state that work on the heavier criminal environment has been a central part of the 2017 effort, and this continues. I am pleased with this. The situation in the south of Oslo is complex and related to both prevention, preventing recruitment, helping young people out of the criminal environment and, not least, punishing the heavier criminals. I am ready for priority to be given to efforts against the criminal communities and the backers. They have to be prosecuted. What emerges from crime may be related to exclusion, lack of integration and poor economy. The reinforced police effort must therefore be seen in the context of other efforts in the renewed Oslo South bet. An agreement of intent between the State and the Municipality of Oslo is being worked on to lay the overall framework for the operation. A number of ministries will participate in the cooperation of the state to ensure a wide range of efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1536	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. I would like to emphasise the work against the rearmen. When it comes to prevention in these areas — the Council of State said that the aim of these funds was also to prevent — one must be aware that as long as one does not go after the backers, who unfortunately recruit almost as many people as they want to do things separately, one will not be able to prevent effectively. So the question now is how to be close enough on them to avert actions, avoid criminals running around with guns, avoid distributing drugs — that is, you can intervene before things happen, follow the money and reveal the networks. It is said that there was a heavy effort in 2017, but the problem is that none of the key people, the main characters – as far as I know – have been taken. The police have also said that after the operations they have had. So we can't be satisfied with that part of the effort. That's why I want to stress it to the Council of State and ask her to pay attention to this in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1543	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler. I visited the Oslo police district yesterday to get additional information about the efforts they have. They're very clear that they're going to work to take the backers. But they say it's a time-consuming work, where you have to be patient and work long-term. They're also going to put an extra pressure on taking out the running guys and make sure they do what they can to prevent new rungs from entering this environment. It's a tough environment. Those who first enter this environment have a lot of trouble getting out. There is another part of the job that the police need to put pressure on, namely to help those who are motivated to leave the environment, which may have major consequences for both them and their families. After my meeting yesterday, I would like to say that the police are working very widely on this, and they will now spend some time determining the use of all the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1552	I'm glad that the Council of State is going into it, follow it up directly and talk to the Oslo police district about the use of the money, because it's important that these 30 million. kr will not be part of how to handle a tight budget in 2018, but that they will be used directly on it as Stortinget's demand. I want to take up another side of the use of the money, and that is the need for visible police presence. We must avoid the establishment of zones where crime is almost controlled and where it does not feel like it is the government that regulates law and law. It's been about manning. There was a police post a few years ago at Holmlia which lay in some office premises in a back street there. There has also been talk about an alternative with mobile police posts that can be placed on e.g. one of the centres, which can be accessible and clearly present — a place where people can come in to talk to the police. I know that the Oslo police have previously purchased such mobile items. Has the State Council asked the police how they will solve the challenge of visible presence?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1561	They include: a mobile home they use in the area, so that they can be easily accessible to people in the community who want to talk to the police. They're going to use it out there too. It is absolutely my impression that they should be there both with visible police and, of course, also with policemen who don't have the uniform on, but who are active in the area of gathering information, spying, talking to people and working well. I'm glad the police have this so high on the agenda. They now spend some time deciding how to use the money, by getting more information and setting strategies for how to work even more targetedly. I think it's a good idea to do that in the situation that we have now. The police are very clear that they are going to make a big effort – even beyond these 30 million. kr – in order to achieve a safe nearby environment for Holmlia.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1571	‘The monitoring report following the tragic incident in which a 15-year-old committed a knife drop in the South African Centre in July 2017 reveals that the girl had been coerced into a commercial child protection measure that broke several laws, the crew was inadequate and she was denied health care. Does the Council of States see that entrusting the care of the most vulnerable children and young people to commercial profit-based actors could increase the risk that children and young people will not be given the right offer because these actors are taking advantage of the service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1578	This story makes a strong impression on me. I think it makes a deep impression on us all. The incident at the South African Centre, where one young woman lost her life and another was seriously injured, is only deeply tragic. What we have to follow up with is to learn from what went wrong. We have to follow up on action and do what we can to prevent something similar from happening again. The countyman has done a thorough and good job of getting the whole matter out. The entire 27 instances have contributed information. In addition, the girl herself has helped to clarify the matter. It is a derailment, I believe, to point to private operators and in particular one actor in this case. On the contrary, I have noticed that the criticism that has been addressed in retrospect is directed at both public and private services. Criticism has been raised against child protection services in the municipality of Kristiansand and against the Sørlande hospital. There are public authorities, and it is very clear that the way they have behaved is very critical. In addition, there is one private actor, Near care South, against whom there is also criticism. At the same time, I register that the County has concluded that the private operator Aleris has provided sound services. It is even underlined that Aleris has gone a long way in following up the girl in a proper manner. They have shown an availability beyond what can be expected. The County also concluded that the children’s, youth and family budget has provided adequate services. Having said that, I think we should be careful to use such tragic single events to try to allocate blame. We need to ensure that children in need of care and assistance receive an offer tailored to their needs and challenges, and that children around the whole of Norway are offered near where they live, and in their own network, as far as possible. Then it's our job as politicians to facilitate the diversity of offers that can help the individual child as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1589	I'm not pointing at one actor, I'm pointing at a structural problem. When Greece was Minister of Culture, she said the following about the use of money in sport: ‘In essence, there is one issue that is important for people, and that is the question of trust. It is a matter of confidence that Community money goes to what it is to be used for.’» The most vulnerable children need society to take care of them. These are our children, and the money we give them, for the protection of children, should have gone to these children, not to anyone who's enriching them. Unfortunately, the principle of the use of Community funds — as the Minister spoke very nicely about when it came to sport — does not apply to child protection today. The 20 largest commercial children's protection companies took a dividend of almost 50 million. kr in 2016 – out of child protection, away from children’s protection. Why does not the same principle apply to the money allocated to child protection as to the money given to sport, namely that the money goes to what they are going to spend on, and not to this huge private enrichment, for which Hofstad Greece is obviously in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1603	Because I'm most concerned about the child's needs – I'm not most concerned about who it is that gives the individual offer. Even before I became Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I was around visiting child protection institutions. There I met several children who told me stories that made a deep impression on me. They told me that they had moved between many institutions, and that it was only when they were placed at this private institution that they got the help they needed. It was one thing at a private institution they said was what gave them security and belonging, and it was that this institution offered community tour, that the adult worked for a long time, so you wouldn't deal with more adults over a day. It is an example that private institutions have to a large extent sought to offer flexibility and build security around the individual child. I mean a public institution offer along with the private and the ideals is the best diversity we can provide... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1610	I note that the Council of State does not want to or is not able to answer what I have asked for in two rounds, namely that taking out profits, withdrawing money from the service, can lead to an increase in the risk that the children will be offered worse because someone is taking money given to them for private enrichment instead. We also saw that in the case of Small Units in Vollen in Asker. There was a lack of staffing an important reason why it went as bad as it went. So it ended with an employee being killed by a 15-year-old patient. It was stated in the report on the case that it was about a lack of staff in a company, Small Units, which at the same time took advantage of a profit before tax of 2.7 million. kr and a salary to the Executive Director of more than 1 million. kr. But they didn't have enough money to have enough staff at the institution. So for the third time, does the Council of State see that taking money out of child protection can weaken the offer for the children? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1617	Private actions must comply with the same quality requirements as public policy. Private action must be followed up by State and supervisory authorities. When I visit child protection institutions where children tell me that they are given a better offer than they have received in public, in public child protection institutions, it means a lot to me. I'm busy with the kids. I'm concerned about how they feel. I am concerned that they will get the best possible offer – whether it is with a non-profit, a public or a private person, doesn't really matter to me. Children are different. They have different needs and different challenges, and there is only a variety of these actors that allow us to maintain offers that can help the majority of possible children get the help they need. It scares me that Red is so little concerned with the child's perspective, and that you do not take the child's needs into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1624	Absurd -- it's absurd, simply absurd. That's the stupidest thing I've ever heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1629	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1637	‘Both Kristiansand Municipality, Sørlanden Hospital and the private child protection actor Næromsorg Sør have, according to the County Supervisory Report, committed several offences and not given a 15-year-old girl the help she needs. The history of ‘Stina’ has similarities with the history of ‘Ida’, glass girl, who was also exposed to many movements, coercive measures, the use of single measures and missing health care. What changes will the supervisory report on Stina lead to in the child protection services for children and young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1644	This is a story that ended deeply tragically, both for the young girl, for the victims and for their relatives. Here we have to learn what went wrong, and we have to do what we can to prevent something similar happening again. As a result, the supervisory report submitted by the State of Fylkeman is now very important. We have a lot to learn from. The county council points to crimes committed by several actors, and that is something that I take very seriously. At the same time, it is concluded that other stakeholders have provided sound services. It is too early to say whether this case will lead to concrete changes in addition to what the services and actors involved are now doing to close the deviations that have been identified. We need to keep working on this and see if we can learn from it, if there are errors in practice, and if there are guidelines that need to be changed, but as I said, we need to get some time to work on it. ‘Stina’ needed assistance both from child protection and from mental health protection. The government is well-informed about a number of measures that will provide children who need services, both from child protection and from health care, with better and more holistic help, and there are three measures that we are already in the process of doing. Firstly, we are now setting up two care and treatment institutions for children who need long-term care outside the home while at the same time having a high need for mental health care. Secondly, regional health establishments have been given this year a mandate to strengthen outpatient BUP services to children in the field of child protection. Thirdly, work has been started on developing an interaction process involving child protection and the BUP. It shall contribute to predictability, faster and better investigations and, in particular, better cooperation between all the services concerned. However, the main work in the field of child protection is done in the municipalities. Capacity and competence are key words for the government's efforts here, and I would like to mention that since 2011, this government has provided about 1,000 more child protection workers – designated employees – in the municipalities where the children live. We have also recently launched the government's strategy for increasing the competence of municipal child protection in the years to come, and we see that the strategy addresses many of the points that County supervision points to. I'm glad, and that also makes me believe that we're getting better at many of the vulnerability points that are now identified.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1661	Thanks for the answer. Both this surveillance report and the ‘glazed girl’ were shocking readings, and the outcome was fatal for the children for whom child protection had been provided. In these cases, there is not a discussion about whether care-taking was right or not, but what the state through child protection has done when one has been the caretaker for the child. ‘Ida’ is now in prison because of the killing done. I read in the supervisory report that the girl herself visited the psychiatric ward at the Southland hospital two days before this happened, but was rejected. I believe that much needs to be done to improve the mental health care of children in child protection, but what will the Council of State do with the provision of the usual psychiatric services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1668	I am very pleased that the representative Toppe is addressing this precisely with the interaction between child protection care and the psychiatric offer, because it is obvious that it has been too bad for many, many years. You've looked at behavior, you've looked at the need for care, and you've distinguished it from many of the mental problems that several of the children we're talking about have. I am pleased to see this in context, that child protection and health care are working together better, and this is particularly true of specialist healthcare. I believe that the Directorate is now working for, namely that children and young people should have their mental health needs identified early, is a good start. However, the need to facilitate the investigation of mental health disorders through this interaction process is also important for these children to get the right help, and not least at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1675	It is good that the Council of State is concerned with mental health care for children in child protection, because it has not been given to them – well enough – until now, it is completely clean. But I have another question, which is also common to these two issues that have received great attention, and that concerns the number of movements. Read a review report, and this girl has experienced a massive number of movements in a short time, something each of us had a problem dealing with. There has been a debate before whether to set a roof or create rules for how many movements a child should actually be able to accept in child protection, and the government has not previously seen the need for it. Many of these children experience being moved far away from their own part of the country to be offered a different place. Will the Council of State consider these matters in the wake of this supervisory report?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1682	I think it is important that we assess all possible measures when we get such a serious report on the table. I would also like to say that I think that the focus has changed from when I worked on this field a few years ago, precisely when it comes to what the representative here stresses. The number of movements is a heavy burden, so the movement must take place where the child lives, but also preferably in networks or in the family. I see that now is a very clear lead for the work they do. Then action has to be taken at the right time, there has to be the right action, and there has to be an earlier intervention. The goal is for the child to be moved out to move back home. Yes, we have some cases where it is not possible, unfortunately, but child protection should also help parents and ensure that they are so good caregivers that they can take the child back. Our goal should be minimum moves, because that's what we see as harmful and so destructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1694	This question, from the representative Arne Nävra to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who will address the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1699	It is accepted smoothly. ‘Several reports of bad forest hogs that have been illegal in the opinion of the notifying parties have been lodged by the Buskerud police in the last year, justified by ‘not illegal’ or ‘lack of evidence’, despite the maximum number of registered hogs and key biotopes. Does the State Council believe that the Forest Act’s sustainability regulation is good enough, and if not – will he take the initiative to review the law with a view to obtaining clear guidelines for sustainable logging that take real account of the protection of nature?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1708	I do not know the details of the individual matters to which the representative here refers, but I notice that the police have not found anything illegal. I think that the forestry law and the farm force regulation ensure sustainable forestry. However, it is good that there is a note about how forestry is operated. Forest and timber industries are an important sector with key tasks in the green shift, and I am pleased with the clear signals from the Stortinget that it is necessary to increase the maximum in the Norwegian forests. However, with increased activity in forestry, it is also important that forest industries continue to make targeted efforts in the environmental field; reporting forest areas for voluntary protection, aside from key biotopes and edge zones and systems to remove wheel tracks and twigs from paths so that they do not prevent movement. From the turn of the millennium to the present day, Norwegian forest owners have seen some 800,000 forests with important environmental values but could otherwise have given good income to forest owners. I am sure that the comprehensive policy for a sustainable Norwegian forestry is good. This includes voluntary protection according to nature diversity laws – now we manage a 10 pst. target for it – rules on sustainable forestry in forestry laws and regulations according to them, the forest policy schemes and the forestry industry's own environmental concerns through environmental standards and certification. This is an area where the government follows closely, and I see no need for such a review as the question indicates. We have every reason to trust that the forest sector in general manages this responsibility well, and I'm absolutely sure that if you have a never as good code as I think we have, you can always risk that someone doesn't stick to it. That's why we're going to have good sanctions. We have, but here the police have concluded that there is nothing illegal going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1723	I thank you for an answer that was not really a proper answer, but I note that the Council of State believes that the regulation is good enough, even if, for example, it is. is registered as the presence of the severely threatened low-end woodwork, which is kept on its screen by senior executives and machine operators. It's being hounded, and the police just order the case because it's not punishable. The regulation on sustainable forestry § 5 states: ‘In implementing forestry measures, the forest owner shall ensure that the values of important habitats and key biotopes are preserved in consultation with the guidance lines of the Norwegian PEFC forest standard.’» That the standard is broken is indisputable. It has been admitted by the Viking Forest in this case. It may seem like there's confusion and lack of knowledge in the police about this. Therefore, the question is again to the Council of State: when registered endangered species such as honeycomb are removed at the maximum, is the fault of the law or of the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1733	I think that the law and the regulations we have are sufficient to ensure a reasonable management of forest resources. Without me going into individual cases and deciding the police's assessment of them, I think that one has the adequate authority to impose sanctions on those who break the regulation and the law as being in force today, and as I think is good enough to carry out the responsibility of forest industry for special environmental values in the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1738	Now I have even mentioned species names here, which I had hoped the Minister of Agriculture had gone into in advance – but okay. I hope and believe that the Minister of Agriculture will follow up the Storting's goal of protecting 10 pst. by the Norwegian Forest – also from its Minister of Agriculture. I would also assume that he then thinks it is best that the most protective forest should be among the ten percent. Land forest management has shown that only one fifth of the forest in the east can be characterised as a natural forest, i.e. peak class V plus, i.e. old forests that have never been exposed to snouts or industrial forests. For all the many hundreds of species that depend on that forest, a further reduction of such forest will be disastrous. What will the Council of State do to ensure that these valuable forests are not lost before the work on the ecological base map is completed? Could, for example: a system of reporting obligations at all times and a maximum ban on all forests over 160 years of age is a thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1747	The answer to the last one is no. The state of Norwegian forests is consistently good. We have several big trees – developments in the last 20 years are positive. There is more old forest - developments in recent years have been positive. There's more dead wood, both lying and standing. This shows that in sum, forest industries have managed their responsibilities well. It's set of key biotopes. Forestry does an important job. We work together on voluntary protection. We're funding voluntary protection. So in some cases, the forest industry in general helps us to take care of important natural and environmental values, while at the same time doing some of the most important things, and to which the majority of people have joined, our natural values are simply managed by using them and not by everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1752	That's the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-28.ana.ud158e1766	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
