ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e81	The representative Siv Mossleth, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East-Agder counties: Arne Thomassen For the Nordic counties: Kjell-Idar Juvik, Elizabeth Åsjord Sire and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Höjres Storingsgruppe to the representative of Kårstein Eidem Løvaas. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the commodity, Renate Silver, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e124	Renate Silver is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e135	The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e140	On behalf of the big business representatives Heidi Greni, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to amend the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the outdoors and on icy watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e145	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e150	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself to conclude work on selections to assess changes in emergency legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e155	The representative, Ingrid Heggø, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e161	I have tabled on behalf of Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Åsunn Lyngedal, Stein Erik Lauvås, Ingaill Olsen, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Magne Rommetveit, Lise Christoffersen, Arild Grande, Lene Wagslid and myself a proposal for a representative to suspend the implementation of certain changes in the tax regime and clarification in the terms of applying the transitional rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e166	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e171	On behalf of Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to correct deficiencies in the TSB, the drug treatment that the tendering round from Health South-East has led to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e176	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e194	The Presidency of the Grand Duchy last week held a meeting with the Finance Committee and the parliamentary leaders. I was asked there to make a statement to the Stortinget about the ongoing construction projects, and I have, of course, been willing to do so. This is the third presidency to deal with issues relating to Stortingen's construction projects. The two previous presidencies have taken the overall decisions on the launch and extent of the Storting building projects. The five Vice-Presidents of the current Presidency took office in October 2017. Consequently, these have not contributed to the proceedings of the previous presidencies over the construction projects, but, of course, take responsibility for the handling of the projects during the term of office of this presidency. With the latest cost increase announced, the construction project will have undergone three major increases in the cost framework. That's very regrettable. The project has had a development that we're all very concerned about. In particular, the latest increase is alarming and difficult to understand as it comes so soon after budgetary procedure just before Christmas. I will account in detail for the dramatic developments in the recent cost picture, both what has happened and why. This includes the role and responsibilities of the Presidency. On 20 June last year, the Stortinget examined the Riksrevision report on the review of the construction project. The main purpose of the statement today is to explain the evolution of costs after that date. Before I go into it, I still want to give an overview of the construction project in a slightly longer time perspective. I think that's useful as a background for what I'll say later about the last cost increase. Rehabilitation of the Prince's Gate 26 was necessary for several reasons. The building had a major need for upgrading all technical facilities. This included ventilation, heating, cooling, sanitary, electrical and telecommunications facilities. Furthermore, it had built a very poor fire state. The wooden beam layer had some major deformations, and the construction had great damage from the swelling of the alumni plates in the ground. The bombing of the government quarter of 22 July 2011 resulted in both tragic losses of human life and very extensive damage to several buildings around the government quarter. The risk analyses made by Stortinget in the aftermath of the attack showed that the building mass of Stortingen had a high need for upgrading for safety. These are constructions which necessarily need to ensure a high level of safety, which has a significant impact on the cost picture. Two options were initially considered for the rehabilitation of the Prince's Gate 26. One option was to maintain the interior structure of flooring partitions and support structures. The second was to tear down the building and then perform a whole new building. The Prince's Gate 26 is located in an area regulated for conservation. This means that the current extermination must not be altered without the permission of the Anti-Various Authorities. The Storting Administration has regular dialogue with the Riksantikvaren on the maintenance and alteration of the Storting building. It was also in the investigation phase of the Prince's Gate 26, where a special discussion was held on which elements of the building were to be protected. In the light of this dialogue, the then presidency decided to retain the historic facade of the building. A point has been made by several that this was not followed by an order of the Antiquarian authorities. However, this was not put to the fore because the Riksantikvar gave clear advice that the façade should be preserved. Any other farm in Oslo would probably have been required to maintain a similar façade. The Antivarian authorities have been held back from imposing charges against the Storting, but there are errors about the country’s national assembly taking advantage of such a speciality in questions of the preservation of antique-variable values. The conclusion was that a solution was chosen to tear down the interior and rebuild it within the existing façade. This was the best solution to ensure the most sound construction. This solution also made it possible to increase the number of office spaces from approx. 100 to approx. 180 and get a more functional construction adapted to Storting's needs. In order to obtain a permanent solution to the swallowing problem, it was necessary to take out a larger quantity of alumni under construction. This also enabled a new basement deck to be used for the necessary technical installations. In January 2013, the then presidency decided to include a new postal and goods beneficiary in the project, located under the Wessels site. The risk analysis after 22 July 2011 had revealed vulnerabilities around the supply of the Storting product, and it was recommended to establish a new beneficiary. The new installation would allow the efficient and safe control of goods and vehicles and the separation of traffic between goods and passengers. Various alternative solutions for access to the postal and goods recipient were identified. Today's mail and goods offices are located in connection with the garage, which has only one entry and exit. Safety considerations indicated that there was a need for an alternative exit from the landfill garage. This was pointed out in a risk and vulnerability analysis in the wake of the incident on 22 July 2011, carried out by a group of participants from among others. National Security Authority, Police Security Service, State Buildings and Defence Buildings. Following a process with the Municipality of Oslo, it was decided to establish an entry tunnel for the postal and goods station under the Lower Vollgate with entry from the town hall street. It was agreed that this functional and safety option was the best. This assessment took into account the urban environment, traffic patterns and safety of the Storting and neighbours, including the extent of damage caused by the possible detonation of explosives during pre-entry controls. The first overall framework for the construction project was addressed by Stortinget in the autumn of 2014 in the context of the 2015 budget. A cost framework of 1.137 billion was then adopted. kr. Later, the cost framework has been increased to 1.442 billion. kr in the budget for 2016, then SEK 1,8 billion. kr in the 2017 budget, which was adopted in the autumn of 2016. In December 2017, the price adjusted cost framework was SEK 1,838 billion. The budget for 2018 was maintained, but it has already been shown that this framework would not last. There's obvious reason to ask how that might be possible. Before I go into it, I would like to stress that this is an unusually complicated construction project, which has obviously been underestimated both by us as a builder and by Multiconsult as a projector. Building a completely new building within a conservation façade from the 1800s and excavating an additional floor beneath it has given rise to major technical challenges. In addition, it is a large plant at a collective node in Oslo Centre. There is a lot of infrastructure in the ground, as major challenges have also been identified in the course of the project. The complexity of the construction project has been greatly exacerbated by the fact that the company involved as a designer, Multiconsult, has supplied drawings and other work bases of very poor quality for performing contractors. Most serious are the large-scale deficiencies in the contract basis. This has led to substantial additional work and a massive increase in contract costs. This explains a significant share of the increased costs of the project. It has also caused the project to have had an unusual and unfortunate development of the risk profile. The remaining uncertainty should normally have decreased to the minimum in the project as late as we are now. However, there is still a lot of uncertainty in the project, which I will come back to. As we know, we have chosen to go to the unusual and dramatic step of suing Multiconsult for defective and delayed deliveries as a projector. The provisional requirement in the application is up to 125 million. kr, but in the light of recent developments it will be considered to increase this requirement considerably. For the sake of order, I mention that the compensation or refund we may obtain in the case against Multiconsult is not taken into account in the assessment of the project's economy. It is clear that in this project there is also much we as builders should have done differently. Much of the cost would have been necessary, even if it had been properly designed from the outset, but there is no doubt that the total cost of the project has increased significantly due to the significant deficiencies in Multiconsult’s delivery. The National Audit Office's review of the construction project showed, as you know, that there is reason to take extensive self-criticism in how we, as builders, have handled the project. I also stated that when the Riksrevisions report was discussed in Stortinget in June last year. The main lesson is that the Stortinget should not handle such construction projects in the future itself. A working group appointed by the Presidency has, as you know, recommended that State Building should be the builder of the Stortinget in future major construction projects. There's a recommendation the presidency is going to follow up. I would also like to point out that this working group has recommended that the Stortinget should be given a code of construction equivalent to that of the State. This means, among other things: that we are subject to the same assessment and quality assurance requirements as in the case of large construction projects under the direction of other State activities. The working group has also looked at how these kinds of issues can be better anchored in the party groups and in the plenary of the Stortinge, as well as proposed ways of strengthening the control of the administrative activities of the Stortinge. The working group's report was discussed in depth at the Presidency's all-day seminar in January this year, and further consideration of the report was decided at the Presidency meeting on 15 February. The report was then sent for information to the batch groups. In the follow-up to this work, too, the Presidency will have dialogue with the big business groups, and a separate case is planned for the Stortinget before the summer. So to what has caused this statement. Why has a new increase in the cost framework become necessary in such a short time, and how has the amount become so large? To answer that, it is necessary to look at what has happened to the cost picture since June last year and until today. The project carried out a thorough review of the basic calculation and a new uncertainty analysis in May and June 2017. The review showed that the economy of the project was under pressure, as reports from the project had already suggested. The economic reserves had been substantially reduced in the previous months and it would be necessary to apply cost-reduction measures in order to stay within the cost framework of EUR 1,838 billion. kr. However, cost-reduction measures totaling 75 million were identified. NOK, which made it possible to keep to the cost framework. The cost reduction measures were decided by the Presidency at its meeting on 7 August 2017. The project then had reserves of approx. 10 pst. measured against the remaining production. The economic situation was assessed to be under pressure but under control. It was central in this assessment that Multiconsult at this point guaranteed that all the drawings would be completed within a short time, and that the most complex parts of the project were probably completed. In September, the last meeting of the previous presidency was held. At this meeting, the project’s monthly reports for June and July were examined. The project then briefed on the work on cost reduction measures to ensure that the project had the necessary reserves at its end. The 75-million savings. kr in order to keep the cost framework considered realistic, and the project council considered it appropriate to continue to manage the project within the current cost framework. The project has had regular meetings with Multiconsult. As requested by Stortinget, Multiconsult strengthened the architectural group with two new architects in September 2017. Multiconsult's presence on the construction site is also strengthened to speed up solving issues that were not designed. In addition to the autumn of 2017, it turned out that Multiconsult had a lot of outstanding design, and new and revised drawings were still delivered. As a result, contractors continued to deliver a large number of notices of deviation from the contract and required change orders to carry out the work. The project therefore had to use more of the set-aside reserves. The first meeting of the new Presidency was held on 9 October 2017. At its meeting on 19 October, a detailed information was provided on the status of the construction project. On 26 October the new Presidency examined for the first time a monthly report from the project, that is, the September report. It was reported that the project was running within the current cost framework but that the project’s economy was under pressure and that there was still uncertainty in the project related to the remaining work. The challenges with the delivery of Multiconsult drawings persisted beyond the fall, and the company re-increased the hourly forecast for the remaining design work. It greatly contributed to the negative development of the risk profile, which I have had. Despite progress in the construction process, there was a continuing high degree of uncertainty in the project. In November, as in the past, the project was the subject of the weekly meetings of the Presidency. A central theme during this period was the proceedings against Multiconsult, in which proceedings were filed on 8 December. The Presidency meeting of 7 December 2017 examined the monthly report for October. It turned out that the economy was further deteriorated and that most of the reserves were used up. The Presidency stressed that the cost framework should be kept. The project council announced that, as planned, it would review the calculations and a new uncertainty analysis in December/January. The Presidency decided to invite the Finance Committee and the parliamentary leaders to a meeting on the project after a new calculation and uncertainty analysis. On 19 December, a meeting of the Project Council was held on the basis of the monthly report for November. The project then reported assumed additional increased costs and increased uncertainty, including: due to a large number of new alerts. The November report showed that due to the remaining uncertainties, project management assessed the reserves of the project as insufficient. The project council agreed at its meeting on 19 December that economic developments were critical to the cost framework. However, it was decided that it was necessary for the project to complete the review of the calculation and the new uncertainty analysis before a further assessment of the economy of the project was made. When, from this chair the next day, that is, 20 December, in the debate on the budget of the Storting, I stated that the cost framework was firm, neither I nor other members of the presidency were familiar with the meeting of the project council on 19 December. We were also not familiar with the monthly report for November. It is very regrettable that the up-to-date and essential information on the financial status of the project was not communicated to me and the rest of the presidency before this post was held. This is true even though what emerged from the November report was quite different and much less dramatic than what has subsequently emerged from the new basic calculation and the new uncertainty analysis, which was completed at the beginning of February. As you know, the former director of Stortinget has taken the consequence that she did not inform the presidency earlier about the developments described in the November report. Information on the critical situation described in the November report was not assigned to the Presidency until the report was presented at the Presidency meeting on 1 February 2018. The impression has been that the presidency has not been in contact with the Director of the construction project for the period from 19 December to 1 February. This does not lead to correctness. In particular, the follow-up to the National Audit Office's report on the construction projects was the main theme of a full-day presidency seminar on 15 January. The Presidency has, of course, expected critical information on the construction project to be communicated to us also between meetings where the project's monthly reports were discussed. Here, of course, it should have been done. This is true even if there was a common view of the Presidency and the Director that a thorough examination of the economy of the project had to be carried out on the basis of the results of the review of the calculation and the new uncertainty analysis. Several have wondered why the presidency has not actively requested information on the sustainability of the cost framework during this period. To that it is to say that the relationship between presidency and director must necessarily be based on trust and not distrust. In the meeting on 7 December 2017, the Presidency made clear that the cost framework for the projects was to be maintained. It must then be expected that the presidency will be informed of any circumstances that might make this difficult. It is also important to understand the project organisation and the relationship between the presidency on the one hand and the Director and the project on the other. Project management does not report to the Administration of Storting, but to the Project Board, which is the project organisation’s top body. The Project Board has been chaired by the Director and has otherwise been composed of other Heads of Administration. In addition, two external persons with significant experience in the construction industry have been hired. One of these has a background from State Building and was the project director for the construction of the Opera. The other – which is also the Director’s external quality assurance in the project – has had project councils in several large and complex public projects. Moreover, the size has also hired external and highly experienced resource persons, from recognised companies, in key positions within the operational project organisation. The Project Council is not a decision-making body but an advisory body for the Director, who has also chaired the Council. The Director has therefore taken all the overall decisions in the project. The Director has reported to the Presidency as Head of Administration. It follows from this that the Presidency must be able to relate to the information received by the Director, even in the sense that it is a matter of course that the information received is not only correct but also complete and timely. It is in this that it is not natural or appropriate for the Presidency to bypass the Director and address itself directly to the project or to employees there. It is also the case that the information from the project must necessarily be processed and evaluated by the administration before being presented to the Presidency. The project uses a reporting form typical of major construction projects. Status reporting to the project council is concerned, inter alia, with: information on progress, the economy, risks and safety, health and the working environment. The largest contracting party – i.e. contractors and consultants – provides reports per year. each end of the month by the 10th of the following month. The project management and the external quality assurance body then prepare each of their monthly reports within approx. on the 20th every month. These are reviewed by the project council. on 25th each month, before being presented to the Presidency normally three to ten days thereafter. Occasionally, there may be a little longer time for different reasons, but this obviously requires that the Presidency is provided with critical information as quickly as possible and, if necessary, outside the regular reporting procedures. With the close follow-up of the presidency of the building project over time, and in particular since June 2017, it appears incomprehensible that the Director did not immediately inform the Presidency of the new information provided by the November report. The review of the basic calculation is a very extensive work. The base calculation contains a quantity of records, all of which are to be assessed and checked against several thousand amending messages. Thereafter, all items shall be assessed separately for uncertainty. What emerged in the November report, which was discussed at the meeting of the project council on 19 December, was that the cost framework would hardly hold. As I was later informed about, the forecast was then estimated to be a couple of $10 million above the cost framework, which was then 1.8 billion. kr. It's serious enough in itself, but of course it's something quite different than the amount it's about now. At its meeting on 1 February the Presidency was presented with the monthly reports for November and December. It was only when the presidency became aware that the cost framework was no longer sufficient. The late examination of the report for November was due to the intention of the Director to give an overall picture on the basis of the reports for both November and December. The December report was discussed at the Project Council on 26 January. The Presidency was informed on 1 February that the forecast was 55 million. kr above the cost framework and that this did not include any further increase due to new calculations and uncertainty analysis. The Presidency decided at this meeting to expedite the planned meeting of the Financial Committee and the parliamentary leaders. At the Presidency meeting on 8 February, the Presidency received a preliminary briefing on the uncertainty analysis, which was almost completed. Preliminary assessments from the analysis showed that the economy was worse than expected, and it was decided that the presidency would be briefed at the meeting on 15 February, after the project council had examined the new calculation and the uncertainty analysis. At its meeting on 15 February, the Presidency was presented with the results of new calculations and new uncertainty analysis. It was then informed that there was a need to increase the cost framework by 483 million. kr, i.e. to 2,321 billion kr. This was shocking and very surprising also for us in the presidency. I understand that it may seem strange, but based on the extensive information we had about the project, it was actually not to expect the project to take such a sudden turn. Only between February 1st and February 15th did the picture that was presented to us change dramatically. It was only when the review of the calculation and the new uncertainty analysis were completed that the economic impact of the continuing uncertainty in the project was taken into account. How was that possible? It is obvious that there have been serious weaknesses in reporting. Of course, this is not how the project actually gets an extra need for funding of almost half a billion kroner. What was discovered in the review of the calculations and the uncertainty analysis should have been discovered and reported earlier. It now appears clear that the project has not sufficiently revealed new cost elements along the way. The reported forecasts have simply been deficient. In addition, the reserves have been made available on a continuous basis without adequate simultaneous assessments of the remaining uncertainties. It is the builder's responsibility to control the costs. This applies even if the underlying causes can be largely attributed to defective deliveries from the design firm. It's our responsibility to take this into account in our forecasts. We have underestimated the negative ringing effects of Multiconsult's deliveries. The uncertainty analysis showed that there is still a high risk that there is still much more change responses than expected, leading to more additions to contractors. Furthermore, the costs associated with previous change orders have been estimated to be too low, and this must be included as an uncertainty related to future changes. Furthermore, there is uncertainty related to the final settlement when the contract prices are completed. The identified highest risk conditions in the project have been associated with defects in the design material and persistent delays in the supply of subscriptions. This has meant that the project has had to a large extent accept the contractors’ additional requirements for works that go beyond those regulated in the contract contracts. This has been linked to work that has been absolutely necessary to get a functional construction. So what's the increase of 483 million? DK off? To answer that, I first have to say something about how the costs of a project like this are calculated. We have here followed the principles that the State otherwise applies in such projects. Cost calculation of construction projects follows a standard breakdown, with basic calculations, management objectives and cost framework. The base calculation is an estimated sum of the probable cost for all specified cost elements and unspecified costs known from experience. The governance objective is the expected cost of the project, i.e. the base calculation plus expected additions, e.g. an expected number of future changes from the contractor. The governance objective shall be referred to: usually as ‘P50’ because it is calculated in such a way that it is 50 pst. The probability that the project will either be more expensive or cheaper than this – that is the most likely scenario. The cost framework indicates the total funding allocated for the implementation of the project. In addition to the management objective, the cost framework includes an uncertainty provision to achieve increased certainty that funding will be sufficient. The cost framework is generally referred to as ‘P85’ because it has been calculated on the basis of 85 pst. the likelihood that the final cost will be lower than the cost framework. It is the cost framework for the project that is made visible to the Storting in the budget proposal, on the basis of which the Storting decision of the framework of the project is based. In the new estimated cost framework, the base calculation is 2,097 billion. NOK, which is an increase of 393 million. kr from the adopted cost framework. The governance objective – i.e. ‘P50’ – is 2.237 billion. NOK, an increase of 460 million. kr. The new estimated cost framework amounts to 2,321 billion. kr, an increase of 483 million. kr from the agreed framework of SEK 1,838 billion. kr. The largest single item in the increase from the adopted cost framework is an increase of 95 million. kr in the design fees of Multiconsult. This corresponds to the increase in Multiconsult’s estimate of total design hours from mid-2016 – which was the basis of the cost framework of 1.8 billion. kr, adopted in the autumn of 2016 – until today. So Multiconsult has spent $95 million. kr more on their own work than they themselves thought was necessary less than two years ago. Other major items are the increase in costs of e.g.: concrete and steel support structures, structural arrangements, electrical installations, timber works and quantity adjustments. In addition, the remaining uncertainty of the project contributes significantly to the amount of 483 million. kr. As I have been told, the remaining uncertainty would normally decrease to the minimum so late in the project. But with the many uncertainties associated with lack of design, lack of entrepreneurship, etc. has not been given this effect in this project. Finally, I would like to say something about the further consideration of the budgetary aspects of the issue in the Storting and about measures to ensure that there will be no further increase in costs. The Presidency will, after the debate, propose that this statement be forwarded to the Financial Committee for consideration there. If the Storting agrees, the Presidency will then submit further documentation to the Financial Committee in order to provide it with a sound basis for the examination of the matter. The Presidency and the Administration will, of course, also provide such additional information and clarification as the Committee might later request. I would like to stress that we have already taken action and are working on further measures to ensure that costs are controlled in the future in the project. First of all, I would like to mention that the administration already has an external competence to carry out quality assurance of the number material underpinning a new cost framework. The result of the quality assurance will be made available to the Financial Committee as soon as it is completed. The work will initially consist of a review of the basic calculations of the project and their basis. Secondly, a systematic review of the uncertainty assessments used in the analysis completed at the beginning of February will be carried out. Secondly, I would like to mention that, in order to avoid further cost increases and to reduce the uncertainty in the project, we will launch new actions towards Multiconsult and further strengthen the project organisation. Due to the situation in which the project has arisen, the total amount of expenditure and liabilities entered in the accounts may exceed the agreed cost framework already in the next two months. If this happens, no new commitments can be included in the project and it will have to be stopped. In that case, this will have a significant impact on the progress of the project and will significantly increase the expenditure of the Storting in terms of delay costs etc. Therefore, an increase in the cost framework should be addressed in the Storting by the end of April. In addition, this year's 470 million project will be committed. kr is not sufficient to pay the supplier’s requirements that will come in the course of the year if the project is continued on schedule. This liquidity challenge is not as precarious as the investment mandate, as there will be sufficient funds for payments at least until early harvest. However, there will also be a need for additional appropriations to implement payments. As regards the 2018 appropriations, there is therefore an opportunity to await it to the revised national budget. The Presidency will therefore propose that, on the basis of this statement, the consideration of the Financial Committee be limited to the investment authorisation with a new cost framework needed to be put in place within a relatively short period of time. The new cost framework is estimated at 2,321 billion. kr, which means an increase of 483 million. kr from the applicable cost framework. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Presidency assumes responsibility for notifying the need for additional appropriations in the budget of the Storting for 2018, in the ordinary process of the revised national budget. Decisions on the necessary new appropriations may then be in place by the summer of 2018. Our primary objective now is to complete the construction project according to the plans available. From the construction site, good propulsion is reported in most areas, and within the summer the underfloor and the next five floors will be finished, with internal work. The plan for the acquisition of the Prince's Gate 26 with new postal and goods receptions in the autumn of 2018 is in place, and work on planning to start construction early in 2019. Here it is, among other things. good dialogue with the batch groups in order to clarify land disposal in the new building. The entry into service tunnel is scheduled to be completed by the end of November and will be put into service in the first part of 2019 following a conversion of infrastructure in the Rådhusgata. Once the construction projects are completed, we will have a modern and functional construction in the Prince's Gate 26 with significantly increased capacity and increased security for the operation of the Storting. Furthermore, we will have safe and efficient delivery and distribution of goods, separated from passenger traffic to the landfill garage. In addition, we will have an alternative evacuation route, which will at the same time protect the urban environment and traffic conditions, and a solution that will meet Storting’s need for access control. Further work will focus on reducing uncertainty in the project's forecasts and ensuring that management information provides predictability for the size of the project. The measures I have mentioned here will contribute to this. The Presidency will also ensure that incidents of importance to the project's cost framework are reported weekly, and we will take further action to the extent necessary. As Stortinget has requested, we will carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the project after completion. That evaluation will, of course, include a thorough review of the circumstances of this latest increase in costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e374	The President will propose that further consideration be carried out in line with Article 45 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It then opens one post up to 5 minutes from each batch group and any closing post from the staging president.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e381	I would like to thank the President for his statement. It is with humility that we are gathered to discuss this matter again, and it is required in a case where we have exceedances in the billions class to be covered by the Community funds. We asked the President to come to plenary in the light of the briefing he gave to the parliamentary leaders and the finance committee shortly a week ago. For many questions there was an unanswered impression, such as the circumstances surrounding the new cost debate, of the lack of governance and follow-up to the decision of the Stortinget decision of June last year – and not least the uncertainty about how this project can be properly completed. The backbone to assess today's critical situation is the treatment we had here in Stortinget after the Riksrevisions report last June. The essence of the report was that the project had not been well planned and implemented, not all the provisions and guidelines that should have been followed, that the Stortinget in plenary has not been properly informed, and that large cost increases do not have satisfactory explanations. A total increase, like the Riksrevision, was responsible for the overruns of the builder, namely the Presidentship of the Stortinge. The majority took unanimous decisions such as: on behalf of the Presidency, follow the recommendations of the Riksrevision impose an obligation to ensure compliance with constitutional rules and to facilitate effective decision-making by the Storting on a sound basis; request that the Presidency provide correct and timely information to the plenary session of the Grand Duchy and inform it of matters of importance so that the Grand Duchy is able to carry out a sound assessment of the content and impact of the decisions taken. It is also worth noting the Roman numerals Decision VII, which said: ‘The Presidency is required to report to the Grand Duchy on the further development of the economy and progress of the construction projects individually and collectively, and to make visible the additional costs considered by the National Audit Office to have been assigned to the project accounts.’;» The President assured that the Presidency would immediately initiate work on following up the recommendations so that they could be continued by a new presidency, and assured the parliamentary leaders that the l.8 billion project framework. kr would last. The Labour Party does not in any way doubt that the President, as well as the current and previous presidency, strongly regrets the exceedances. This isn't about guilt. What we have to decide is the question of trust and political responsibility. The Workers' Party chose to stand with new representatives for the Presidency in the autumn of 2017. These included: as a consequence of the strong criticism that had emerged. When the right did not follow this line, we chose to promote an alternative candidate to the position of Grandfather. The sitting president was elected by the votes of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. We've been dealing with that. When a new great exceedance is a fact, we have to ask: is everything a unanimous increase decided here last year, taken seriously enough? Have credible steps been taken to ensure better control, follow-up and control? Is the Storting kept informed, as we clearly asked? Is correct and timely information provided? It is against these questions that the President's statement must be measured. In his statement on 20 December, the President replied when he said that he had ‘a running and close contact with the administration and the project management’. But today we no longer hear about close and ongoing contact. We hear again that the administration has not provided the presidency with correct and timely information. We hear that the presidency cannot make contact with the project management, but is dealing with the administration and the director. We hear a president who regrets that he has not been notified, but what has he done to get information? It is not an expression of distrust to follow up actively – which the President could give the impression of. So it sounds too strong like an echo of what we heard here before the treatment in the hall on June 20 last year. And that's what a unanimous big thing would have a change on. No one expects the presidency to become a executive entrepreneur. Everyone understands that there must be a reasonable division between presidency, administration and project management. But what we've come to know tells us about a distance built on a square formalism that violates what the Storting could expect from follow-up. The circumstances surrounding the President's posts here in the Chamber on December 20th, his lack of knowledge of the content of the Project Council meeting on December 19th and the many weeks it took before the ominous predictions reached the presidency, are eloquent in that way. It is not reassuring in the light of the firm management that will be required in the final phase. It is on this basis that the Labour Party believes it would be natural for the President to assume his responsibility and withdraw from his place of trust. Finally, it is announced that new powers are needed to prevent the cessation of the project and that the Presidency will ask the Financial Committee to do so. It is a matter that needs to be dealt with quickly. In addition, the Labour Party believes that a letter should be sent from the Presidency to the Ministry of Finance so that the new budgetary information can be incorporated into the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e434	First, I would like to thank the President and the Presidency for a thorough presentation. We had a very wide-ranging debate here in June, but it's a new big deal and a lot of new representatives, and that's how I think it was natural for the President to explain the admission to the matter we have today. After reading more media performances recently and hearing Gahr Støre's contributions to this case, I think it is appropriate to quote the former vice president of the Workers' Party, Svein Roald Hansen – who is probably also in the Chamber – as in his contribution to the Chamber, when the Riksrevision's report was discussed last June, said: ‘The centre party and SV place a specific responsibility on the staging president. It is true that the prime minister of our state has a special role, our foremost after the King. But it's an expression of the Greatness' position in our state. In the presidency as a college and the responsibility of the Presidency in and for the Storting, the President does not have a similar role. The President's position is not, as the Prime Minister's position in the government, the one who has the last word on a matter. The presidency is a college, where none of us can deny responsibility for agreed decisions, no matter how low or high the number we have in front of the vice-president. In this case, the decisions are unanimous.» I suppose it has also been the case in this presidency that the decisions have been unanimous, and that the information that has been obtained and given has also been made in common. That doesn't mean that this is a simple matter. On the contrary, it is very complicated, and it puts our reputation as big and populist in a difficult situation. Construction costs related to the Prince's Gate 26 and new postal and goods offices have cracked three times since the project was initiated – from 1.1 billion. NOK to SEK 2.3 billion. Now kr. It is a serious and partly incomprehensible cost. It is clear that both cost reduction measures should have been implemented in the past and the competence of the project should have been better. Nevertheless, it is important to have the history that the presidency presented today. This is a project that came out crooked by the fact that the Stortinget did not open up so that Stadsbyk could be a builder – which, hopefully, the Stortinget will now conclude that it will be here if there are new construction projects. I hope there'll be another moment. In the course of the project, there have been repeated extensions, almost 3000 change messages and major construction challenges. The size was very clear to the previous presidency when, before the summer of last year, the Stortinget dealt with the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee following the National Audit Office's report on the construction project. The points from the treatment seem to have been followed up, but it does not seem to have been enough. Despite what happened before the summer last year, we are here again discussing the construction project and a new cost margin of up to 500 million. kr. How it could happen is hard to understand, not just for the presidency, but also for us. It is the presidency, as our top trustees, who have the overall responsibility to inform the Stortinge about the operation and project of Stortinge. It is the administration that is responsible for informing the presidency. When this did not happen, it was a correct decision by the director to leave. The matter shall reach the Financial Committee. I agree with the President-in-Office when he calls for the Storting itself to cover part of the cost of its own budget – it is an important signal, although it cannot be expected to cover all the overruns, of course, on the ordinary course of operations – to put a stop to employment, to put new construction and uplifting projects on ice, to prepare and present a plan for significant administrative savings, to implement a new external quality assurance of the costs of the tunnel project, and to implement future construction projects for the Stortinget by State Building. The matter shall now be referred to the Financial Committee for consideration. In the meantime, I would like to ask the presidency to think carefully about how they can apply cost-reduction measures in general and in particular related to this project. The reputation of the big business is weakened, and it is our job, through hard work, to help restore confidence. We have to agree on this, while revealing the cause of the fatal cost gap. When the project is completed, we have adopted a full evaluation. This must be learned, and the Storting must set a table for feeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e460	This is the story of virtually everything that can go wrong in a construction process, of a project that has repeatedly grown beyond its framework, and of how necessary control questions have not been adequately addressed and corrective action has not been taken in time. High uncertainty in the remaining project has not been detected in time. The progress party tried. My predecessor, Harald Tom Nesvik, proposed measures as the parliamentary leader to reduce costs, but was not heard. The party considered it appropriate, by September 2016 at the latest, to reduce the ambitions of the construction project and look at measures to limit costs, but this was not the case. In this case, the spades have stuck in the ground, but unfortunately the heads have too much stuck in the sand. I am pleased with today's presentation, which was absolutely necessary, because the responsibility for the construction project rests with the Stortinget. That is why it is important that the entire Storting should take part in the President's presentation and have access to all information. It is a little special that the leader of the Workers' Party, who himself asked for this statement, still did not have time to listen to what the President has to say to the national assembly of the country before he asked Olemic Thommessen to withdraw from the office of Grandfather. It is worth asking questions about what the Workers' Party's members in this and previous presidency have done to ensure the financial management of the project, and remembering that they themselves put with the president's office when the decision that the Stortinget itself was to be a builder was made – a fatal decision that was not corrected along the way, despite the project's escalating and the control procedures failed. The size should now have two main focus in the construction project. One is that we finish the project without any further surprises. The second is that we find the discovery of the expense charge without sending a new bill to the taxpayers. In addition, it is essential that the Stortinge acquires a new Director with the necessary competence and ability to prioritise soberness, to establish good control procedures, to re-establish respect for Community funds and to contribute to the economic operation of the Stortinge according to the requirements we impose on all other bodies in society. We need an overall review of the costs, and we need the necessary cut, which needs to be implemented quite immediately. We need a presidency that manages its responsibilities proactively and bystander, asking the necessary questions continuously, and keeping the Storting informed. We must simply restore confidence that the national parliament of the country is able to show budgetary discipline and has the necessary respect for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e471	I would also like to thank you for the presentation. This is a matter that has now followed us for several years, and which was duly dealt with by the National Audit Office last year. Then the project had exploded only from 1.1 billion. To $1.4 billion, to $1.8 billion. and until now until 2.3 billion. kr. It is not quite the case that it has not been said from, since the project amounted to 1.4 billion. in February 2016, the Central Party has addressed the issue of reducing the ambitions of this project. But it was not easy to meet with the presidency and the parliamentary leaders, nor was it a matter of hearing. Last spring, the cost framework was 1.8 billion. Then came the Riksrevision report on the project. Three of their conclusions are quite eloquent for the project. One is that more emphasis has been placed on the timetable than on ensuring proper cost control. In other words, this project was not well planned until it was started. The organisation of the project has not been adapted to such a large and complex project. In other words, the Storting should not have been the builder of such a project. Thirdly, there have been inadequate investigations and poor quality assurance of expensive choices in the project. In other words, there are some considerations, including: safety reasons, have been allowed to stand undisputed and have not been reviewed. In addition, the Riksrevision also made it clear that the Stortinget in plenary has not been properly informed about the project. The project has largely been identified as the project of the Presidency and the Administration of Storting. One has obviously also believed that a sea is a decision-making body capable of operating beyond and adjacent to the Storting as such. It's said to be a misconception. Today we are left here, and the situation is that the cost framework has become half a billion dollars more expensive. I have to say that the statement today is far from reassuring. In particular, there are two points. One is that one of the Riksrevision's orders was that there should be better information and reporting to the whole Stortinget. It is incomprehensible that the President did not actively seek information in December until he had posts in the Storting on it on December 20. It appears obvious that the cost framework was already under control on 7 December when the monthly report for October was received. I have to say that I think it is a remarkable explanation that the president or the presidency should not be able to turn directly to the project. The size is not a department. The administration is not a directorate. The size is not divided into political management and civil service. The size is a collegial body, and the president and the presidency should be able to address themselves directly to just who they want to get an up-to-date picture of the costs of the project before they inform the Parliament about it. So it just doesn't keep saying that one was waiting to be informed of a cost framework. A sea should also have been up to date, and especially before going to the hall and should assure the rest of the Storting that the cost framework is being kept. The other thing that worries me is that this project still has considerable uncertainty. And there's a risk that there might be more talk – simply because the Storting as a builder has also chosen a form of contract where they don't have control of changes and costs. Very much of the risk of change is going to lie on the builder. Last spring, when we dealt with this related to the Riksrevision, the president was absolutely blatant that a frame of 1.8 billion. should be kept. Today he says that there is still a great deal of uncertainty in the project. It must mean that we may also be able to expect things in the future, and I would like to ask the President, if he has a post at the end, to elaborate exactly that. Does that mean that we can expect an additional cost increase – and in case how much? Then I must also finally say that I think it is small incredible that the Right Party and the Advance Party today choose to use this occasion for a polemics against the Workers' Party. I think that's a little unbelievable. This is a very serious situation. We've dealt with this in Stortinget up to several times. It's just getting worse and worse. And it's perfectly true that it's about trust, and it's about political responsibility. The centre party has previously voted in favour of distrust. We have also voted in favour of another presidential candidate. We still stand for our views on that matter, even after today's presentation. We believe it would have been natural that the President had taken his responsibility, and that the Right Party and the Advance Party had made sure that he had withdrawn from his duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e501	I would like to thank you for the presentation – and I would like to say the following: The new building of the Great Britain is going to be standing as a monument to unwitting use of money, the country's most tragic tunnel. The Storting believes something about how everyone else in Norwegian society is going to spend money, and therefore we need to have extra good control over how we spend money ourselves. We need more money for schools and hospitals, no more for our own goods and tunnels. We have previously discussed and concluded on the issue of the management of the construction project in the years leading up to the spill-over of the Riksrevision report in June 2017. The important thing today, therefore, is what happened after that report was discussed, after the presidency was strongly criticised for poor governance of a total increase. The answers we received today and last week indicate that the poor governance has continued, and I believe that there was too much disclaimer and too little responsibility in the statement we heard today. Thus, when the presidency met in August, October, November and December 2017, there were clear signals that the economy of the project was under strong pressure. In view of this, it is still difficult to understand that the President chose to go to the pulpit on 20 December and say that the project would probably stay within the cost framework. The main question here remains what happened between 19 December and 1 February, and how it is possible that information on the cost gap did not reach the presidency. Today we have been told something about what happened, but the question of how it could happen remains to be answered, and it is difficult to avoid that it must mean that good enough procedures for information have not been established. The size cannot make lower demands for their own responsible managers than we make for the leaders of others. ‘If serious errors are detected and sufficient efforts have not been made to prevent these errors, the persons responsible should take exactly the responsibility for them.’ It wrote the SV and the Central Party in the June suspension and those words are attached. It is an important part of our democratic system that mistakes have consequences for leaders, and that political leaders take responsibility for mistakes that happen on our guard. It's not a question of personal guilt, it's a question of political responsibility. It is relevant for Stortinget to know about the problems with Multiconsult and what the director has done and has not done. But pointing at them does not remove the question of political responsibility. It is possible that the President still has the power to remain in office. He's basically got a majority behind him. But both that majority and the president himself must now think carefully about whether it is wise – for the cohesion across the party boundaries of the Stortinge, for the image of the Stortinge and for the trust between people and people elected. We have a big job ahead of us in cleaning up. We have to do that job together. In SV we are prepared to be involved in taking the responsibility, and the procedure that is outlined here for it seems reasonable. But the question of responsibility remains, and taking responsibility will also make it easier to do the necessary cleanup together. The responsibility for the scandal must be recognised, and it must be taken, and only the President can do that. The real thing is the president's going off. I have to say that I think that the contribution from the representative of Greece was a low level in this debate. I hope it's not representative of everyone on the civil side. This matter is too serious to be turned into a party political game where the leader of the Right Group is most concerned with protecting his own. I would like to ask the President, on behalf of the SV Group, to carefully assess his position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e522	Thank you to the President for your statement. ‘I believe that it has been emphatically confirmed that the Riksrevision report, the Committee’s suspension and the fact of the case are being taken seriously and that the Presidency has taken collective responsibility. I would say that is very good, but of course also necessary for us in this Chamber to say that the confidence and authority of the Stortinge people can be maintained.’ Sitting of impending tenants in the Supervisory and Constituent Committee of Stortinget, Martin Kolberg, when the Stortinget report from the National Audit Board on the construction project we are discussing today. A good six months later, we unfortunately have a preliminary phase which is not in the vicinity of the fact that Storting's confidence and authority in the population are held by layers. On the contrary, the position is slightly worse with an additional consumption of $500 million. kr, and where the chances of additional cracks are alarming. The size of the building is short and well out of control. The main reason is that we have started a construction project that we do not have enough internal competence to plan, quality or control. The Court of Auditors identified and clearly established that the project has inadequate plans and decision-making bases, that a reasonable sovereign has disregarded dietary/benefit analyses, and that progress and functionality have dwindled costs. And perhaps worst: the report supports the view that the Storting as a builder not only has a relaxed relationship with money use in its own right, but also a lack of will for self-criticism and humility. The first cost: One has agreed to build a new and safer goods and mail receiver – literally speaking in the middle of the landfill complex – combined with a new entry tunnel that has provided full excavation of a reasonable long street in the middle of Oslo City, without thorough diet-benefit analysis, without qualified judgements as to whether the so-called security defends costs. Nor has it assessed the alternative location of the goods and mail receiver, either from a cost or a security perspective. It is unfortunately difficult to explain this in a way other than that it is initiated and started in a culture where costs and cost considerations are not primarily occupied with. It is also not surprising that the explanations, which were supported in the past week by the administration, are largely due to give the external design company the main debt for the cost gap. I don't doubt that Multiconsult has done a bad job. However, I would remind myself that it is not Multiconsult who, paragraph 1, is the builder, who, paragraph 2, has seen additional projects following additional projects on a failed basis and has prioritised functionality over costs, or who, paragraph 3, has chosen the form of enterprise. It's me, Stortinget. Of course, it is good that the presidency has set up a working group to assess and advise on how the Stortinget manages such projects, and how the Stortinget can ensure better and more formal internal rules and procedures. The fact that State Building will in the future have to run large construction projects under the direction of Stortinget is open – and should have been open to this project as well. Other proposals from the working group will undoubtedly improve internal procedures, provide a more formalized and necessary follow-up to the administration and not least provide a better basis for decision-making in plenary sitting than has been the case in this case. I believe, however, that it will take time for the Storting to regain the confidence and authority of the Storting not only should and should have in the management of Community funds, but we must also demonstrate in practical terms that we are fastening. As a supposed representative of big business in this context, I feel a heavy responsibility in this way, and I myself have asked questions several times in the process whether we should have been more proactive in the development of the project. In such a perspective, it is not difficult to understand that the director chose to withdraw. The way in which political responsibility should be clarified – in addition to what has been seen – I have suggested that the Presidency now make thorough and absolutely necessary assessments of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e546	I would like to thank the President for his serious work, and several times the President also used the words'very sorry'. It is important that we deal specifically with this matter from the time of June 2017, when seven very clear decisions were made on how to follow up this matter. The Christian People's Party understands very well that this is a complex and very demanding project. I also think it is right to say today that we also support the need for the upgrade. We should also be aware that there was a July 22 report that pointed to a security need that made it right to start the project. Then there is a great deal of regret about how the project has been carried out. Today, I want to be clear that the Christian People's Party agrees that this project must of course continue. Stopping the project will be very cost-effective – yes, it will be the opposite. We are content to continue it, and we will contribute to it. The Christian People's Party is therefore ready for the treatment that is now being carried out in the Financial Committee on the basis of this distribution. So this is a project that we were told about the fall of 2016 would cost 1.8 billion. kr. That was a new estimate of the cost. That was one billion. kr more than as the basis for the 2013 decision, it was 650 million. kr more than what was indicated in the 2015 government budget, and that was 350 million. kr over what was suggested in the 2016 state budget – i.e. three times. And then we're going to have an additional cost overrun of almost 500 million. kr. And the president is clear. He says: It's the builder's responsibility to control the costs. Then deal with the new presidency December 7th report from October. There was also a warning that most of the reserves were used up. Therefore, there is reason to ask – and that is my question also to the President – how one then December 20 could assume that the cost framework would be kept? So we know that the project council at its meeting on 19 June got new information. Here, too, the President was very clear that it was ‘very regrettable’ that this information did not reach the presidency. But there's also reason to ask questions about what you've done to get the information. The important thing when we go into and see this case is the seven decisions that were made on June 20 in this room. I'm not going through all of them, but the presidency is being imposed. ‘to report to the Grand Duchy on the further development of the economy and progress of the construction projects individually and collectively, and to make visible the additional costs considered by the National Audit Office to have been assigned to the project accounts’. The Christian People's Party agrees that Stortinget should not take on the tasks of builders for this kind of project in the future. I also agree that the legislation that the State otherwise has should also apply to the Stortinget. Then there will be a debate and an important decision for the Storting to look at responsibilities, but also the possibility and also the separation between the responsibilities that lie here, and perhaps the guilt that one has in those kinds of matters. It is true, as has also been said from this speaker, that the presidency cannot be compared to a government, nor can the President be compared to a Council of States. The Christian People's Party will not pursue polemics around this matter. To that, this is too serious. We have not concluded on the subject. We want to go into the work that Stortinget is now going to do, before we conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e575	For me as a meeting alternate at Stortinget since December, it has been a strange time. One scandal has replaced the other and dominated the agenda. It's almost embarrassing to be a politician for the time being. What worries me in particular is that this weakens the trust of the Norwegian people in politicians, in the Storting, in democracy – especially if politicians cannot be open and honest, clean up and take responsibility instead of running with avoidance, guilt and blackmail. In the construction project of Stortinget there have been many unfortunate elections since the beginning of 2011 – since previous presidency. The decision that the Storting itself was to be the builder is definitely tragic in the light of the afterworld clock. Being a builder is not the core competence of big business directors or presidents, but the decision that the Stortinget should have the building owner's responsibility was now taken once. The National Audit Office has been critical of the project and the project management, and budget excesses have increased steadily, without seemingly having a sufficient impact on project management. The size demanded correct and timely information by June last year, which we seem to have received only now – perhaps. We know that some of the budget excesses are well justified. None of us have great difficulty seeing the safety problems after the 22nd of July when driving large vans during Stortinget. This part of the project came to an end later than the restoration and therefore defends part of the cost increase. But a project that is as out of control as this project now seems to be helps undermine the confidence of the people and citizens upon whom the Stortinget is totally dependent. How can the Stortinge trust to design the entire country's budget when we here in the house do not manage our own household budget? Some of the criticism we have received from the National Audit Office has been that progress has been crucial and therefore is likely to contribute to the exceedances. The Greens believe that it is perhaps time to press the Pause button even if we are in a final phase. We should consider who will be the builder of the last, remaining part of the project. I would therefore like to address the municipal minister and ask what opportunities exist for state building to take over the task of unloading the project in port in such an exceptional situation. Billion-dollar budget deficits are difficult to save over a financial year. However, it should be a clear objective of the Storting that large parts of this amount are covered by reduced expenditure on the future budget of the Storing. Here we have to turn all the stones. We need to look at both our own salaries and allowances and the travel budget of the Committees, while also looking at the possibility of saving on the operation at Stortinget. We also need to look at increased income opportunities, as payments for landfill sites. At the same time, the Storting must ensure that this does not affect innocent employees such as laundry workers, employees in IT operations, janitors – i.e. employees in the administration. A new leadership philosophy is in the process of being established in Norway. When something goes wrong, the managers say, "I take responsibility." But they stay seated, often because they themselves do not feel responsible for the events. But a leader must be able to show responsibility by taking the consequences when something on his guard goes wrong. A leader always bears the responsibility for errors that occur. Ida Børresen took the consequences of the last development of the project and went off himself. It says respect. In the last month, Olemic Thommes has been more concerned with explaining what he didn't know than taking responsibility for what he should have known. The Norwegian people have not yet received a genuine complaint or thorough recognition of their own mistakes in this process. We must therefore allow ourselves to ask whether Olemic Thommessen should now know his visitation time and even ask for a renewed trust or leave. The time to take responsibility by being seated is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e591	The film ‘Norwegian building blocks’ exaggerates it to the absurdity of how shaken a construction project may be. As for the building scandals of the Storting, reality surpasses fiction. Olemic Thommessen is not solely responsible for the situation we are now in. The one with the greatest responsibility is Erna Solberg. After the first budget call of 700 million. kr, the Riksrevision's refs and criticism from a total staggering was asked Solberg what she thought about re-election of Thommessen as the prime minister. Solberg replied that she saw no reason why Thommes should not continue. She contributed to Thommes being re-elected, and the million-dollar waste continued with unreduced strength. Red doesn't want any witch-hunt on the blundering president, but when the blundering president continues to shirk responsibility, when the community's millions continue to disappear into the dinghy, all the parties on the Stortinget have a responsibility to stop this and show that mistakes have consequences for politicians as well. Therefore, Red has proposed a clean procedure, namely a new election of the President of the Grand Duchy. Surprisingly, none of the other major players, who are daily shocked and worried in the media, have voted in favour of the proposal. The question is why. Maybe that's because the other parties have a far greater responsibility for the fact that the scandal continues to exist than they like to admit. Because while the construction project has gone on one big jump after another, the presidency has also had a number of opportunities to stop the cost gap. Six times as many as they have handed over concrete proposals on savings. But what have the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Workers' Party's people done in the presidency? Well, they've said no to the savings six times. These are the same parties which do not yet support the Red's proposal for a new election, thus holding their hand over the Thommessen and the misguided construction project, where the budget taximeter continues to tick and dry on the Community's money pot minute by minute. Maybe it's not enough to replace the staging president. We can't have a presidency that acts like a closed lodge. Maybe the whole institution needs a transparency reform. We'll look at that as soon as we get through the most acute, that's to stop the cost gap. What I hear most from the voters about the construction business is that it reveals a culture of privilege in which politicians protect each other, so that no one is held responsible for scandals like this one. The contrast to the way this responsibility works in the real world of work is striking. Take, for example: the cleaning worker at one of Thon's hotels, who after twenty years of hard work was cancelled while she was sick of a bad shoulder, hire a shop clerk who gets fired for coming a few minutes late, or take small business owners who have to sell a house and a car after a bad investment. I will now ask the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV: how are you going to explain to these people that a prime minister responsible for a billion-dollar budget is not allowed to take the consequences of this? So far, the president says that he takes responsibility by keeping a privileged job of 1.6 million. kr in wages and salaries. Do you think most people will accept this way of taking responsibility for precious losses and waste of others' money? We see that asking Olemic Thommess to assess his own position is like asking the goat to look after the oat sack. Our call for all the parties at Stortinget is clear: take responsibility, let action follow words, and supported Red's proposal for a new election of the Grandfather.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e608	In the time after the presidency became familiar with the budget statement of nearly half a billion dollars, which I have today explained, we have worked almost day and night to find out what went wrong, but most importantly, how it could go wrong. I have asked myself the questions: Should the presidency and I introduce more reporting procedures? Should we have asked for more information more often, had more meetings, demanded the administration for more answers? The answer to that, in the light of the postwar clock, is of course yes, and I am, on behalf of the presidency and the rest of the Storting, very sorry that we have ended up in the situation we are in today. I have, of course, also noticed the criticism that is directed directly at the President-in-Office in this matter. I take the criticism very seriously, and it is no secret that the situation over the past few weeks has been very difficult and demanding. My starting point now is that the presidency should facilitate the Storting to deal with this matter as best as possible, and that we get the project on track. It concerns information and documentation relating to the work of the Financial Committee and to the day-to-day work on the construction projects. Everything now needs to be put in place to complete the work under optimum cost control. These are important facilities for Stortinget – both for the daily political work of the Stortinget and in the party groups, and for a safer growth for those working here, and not least for the more than 30,000 visitors we have each year, most of whom are children and young people. The size shall be a safe place to visit - safety is a red thread throughout this project. Work is in progress on the external quality assurance of the present cost and risk analysis. The company Dovre Group Consulting is engaged and the start-up meeting has taken place. The results of the review shall be presented to the Financial Committee as soon as possible with a view to obtaining a sound basis for further work. In addition, the situation in which we live tells us in full that our own project organisation has not been able to produce the information necessary to ensure a good overview of the cost risks of the project. Therefore, a critical review of the project will be carried out as soon as possible with a view to project organisation and resources. The Presidency will also start work in a short time on cost-reducing measures for the Storting itself and the postponement of its own construction and rehabilitation projects. The size has to critically review its own costs and make a thorough effort to find more rational and cost-effective solutions. Although major changes are now difficult to make, the construction project is working day by day to limit expenditure on smaller and larger items. Examples of this are cost-effective solutions for furniture and smaller technical installations. Then there are a number of questions raised by the parliamentary leaders. It will lead too far to be able to go in and give adequate answers to that beyond what I have explained in the statement. However, I hope that the work of the Financial Committee will provide satisfactory answers. All parties are represented there, and the presidency should do its utmost to facilitate, so that all conceivable information comes in there. Then there was one specific question I still want to clarify, namely the question of whether we could not talk to the project. There I would say that we have talked to the project, because the project has been present in every presidency meeting with the administration. We have had the opportunity to ask questions directly to those who are working on this for daily use. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a very demanding and very boring case that has riddled us like a nightmare for several years. We have not yet found all the answers on how it could go as wrong as it did, and some questions may not be answered either, although of course we are going to carry out a thorough evaluation of the project afterwards. Nevertheless, we have a construction project to be completed in 2018 as planned. I know that I have a united presidency behind me when I say that we all experience the seriousness of the situation, and that we will do our utmost to get this ashore in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e635	The debate on the distribution has ended, and the President will propose that the distribution of the Storting building project be sent to the Financial Committee. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e651	An article like this in passing: the Presidency proposes to amend Section 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting on committee voting. On a proposal from the Regulatory Committee, the Stortinget decided in June 2017 to include a rule in Section 27 that anyone should keep their hearings when there is no plenary session. It was also established that exemptions from this requirement require the consent of the Presidency. In the light of the experience gained since the beginning of the session, the majority of the Presidency proposed that the requirement for such consent be withdrawn from the Rules of Procedure. A minority, Abid Q. Raja, would like to forward the consent requirement. I'm assuming that he himself wants to do something good for his point of view. I'll just comment briefly on the proposal from the plural and the background for it. Everyone agrees that there is an advantage to the inclusion of committee appointments outside the plenary meeting dates. The Rules of Procedure have some specific rules on this. No hearings can be held when processing constitutional proposals, and no verification hearings can be held at the same time as the plenary session, with the exception of the Question Time. These rules set absolute limits on the holding of hearings, and derogations require decisions in the Storting. The rule that hearings should preferably be held at other times than when there is a plenary session is formulated as a guideline for planning in the committees, not as an absolute requirement. The background to the rule is that representatives should be able to participate in both hearings and plenary debates. Especially in smaller groups, it is risky to choose between debates or hearings if they are held at the same time. There is therefore a good guideline for committees to try to avoid such coincidences. The question is how to achieve the goal of the rule. The majority in the presidency of the committees themselves should take responsibility for following up the objectives, and that it has proved not to be a good solution that the presidency should review the assessments made by the committees at this point. There is a lot of concern to take when a set time for hearings in committees. In my view, the Committees themselves are close to weighing these concerns towards each other when they define progress plans and coordinate hearings with other activities to be shared by the members of the Committee. In my view, the application system has had the effect that the committees can leave more responsibility to follow up the rule of Section 27 of the Presidency, and it has led to increased bureaucracy when the committees are to do well for why a set deadline is desirable. The Presidency is for good reason yet again to review the work plans of the committees. I already mean the consent order has been shown to be a little bit reasonable. The majority argue that the Committees seek to achieve the objective as far as possible, even without a specific consent mechanism, and propose to provide a clearer guidance on this in Section 27. Otherwise, I refer to the comments in the option and the recommendation from the multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e668	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e684	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e695	Security for the money we have in the bank is available to us the day we need it is important for both individuals and businesses in Norway. The banking crisis of the 1990s shook our entire society. Many financial institutions went bankrupt or were taken over by the government. The experience led to a significant strengthening of the control and requirements of banks, which helped us avoid a banking crisis in 2008. The financial industry is international and it is important for Norway to cooperate on a regulatory framework to ensure that as far as possible it avoids a banking crisis. The regulation invited by the Stortinget to adopt today shall provide for increased security of deposits and a new crisis management code indicating measures in the event of major losses or other emergency situations. A broad majority of the financial committee supports the proposed legislation. The proposal continues the Banking Insurance Fund, establishes a new crisis management fund, which is also fully financed by the industry, and establishes a crisis management authority. The deposit guarantee guarantees deposits up to 2 million. kr, and it is proposed to be continued. In Norway, we largely save on deposits, and a good deposit guarantee is important. We are the only country in Europe with a guarantee higher than EUR 100 000, and an overall committee expects the government to succeed in continuing. An extended coverage for deposits above 2 million is proposed. kr for up to 12 months in connection with settlement, inter alia. in the case of the purchase of a dwelling, the settlement of a divorce or the payment of a claim. No financial limit is set for the guarantee of such deposits. It will be an important improvement of current legislation and will be supported by an overall finance committee. The legislative proposal introduces a new crisis response fund in Norway. It is proposed that the funds of the current hedged fund be allocated between this and the hedged fund, so that both have sufficient resources to carry out their tasks from day one. All banks in Norway must be members of the funds and must pay an annual fee which will result from the amount of deposits with the bank. That's how the bank's size will mean a lot to the individual's contribution. An overall financial committee has also endorsed the need for an additional assessment of the risk profile of each financial institution by setting annual contributions. Financial supervision is given the role of crisis management authority in Norway and an organisational distinction is required between the role of financial supervision as supervision and their role as crisis management authority. Financial supervision shall be responsible for ensuring that financial undertakings draw up recovery plans in the event of a loss of capital. The Committee has stressed the importance of practical adaptation by imposing fewer requirements on smaller enterprises’ recovery plans. It's not as critical for society if a smaller bank goes overboard. Norway has benefited from diversity in the financial sector and no regulatory requirements need to be imposed that impair the competitiveness of the smaller banks without this being necessary. The Committee has received broad support for the introduction of internal capitalisation rules. As a result, the entity’s creditors will be held more liable in a crisis situation by converting liabilities into equity. The main decisions on crisis management shall be taken by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry shall also provide for the new legislation which takes state-funded support measures in specific situations. A broad majority of the Committee shall be required to take the necessary decisions on a case-by-case basis. The new legislation to be adopted today provides for new and expanded tasks for both governmental bodies and banks’ insurance funds. The Committee has therefore foreseen and underlined the importance of keeping the Storting and the public informed about the development of deposit guarantee and the crisis resolution regime through the annual financial market notification. It is also assumed that the Stortinget is kept informed of the negotiations with the EU to maintain the deposit guarantee of 2 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e716	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work and good cooperation in this matter. The financial crisis and the Norwegian banking crisis at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s provide a serious backbone for the adoption today of new legislative rules on deposit guarantee and crisis management and other economic challenges in the banking sector. It is important to learn from history – the consequences of the lack of regulation and the consequences of the lack of financial stability have been partly animal-acquired experience. Better regulation of financial markets helps reduce the risk of a new banking or financial crisis in Norway. That's what this case is about. Financial stability is the basis of economic security and stability and of growth in the Norwegian economy. It is the basis for the security of people, for jobs, for savings, for family wealth and inheritance, for investment in property and businesses, and not least for trust in banks. Syncing with the EU in this area also indirectly helps to safeguard the Norwegian economy and to create further stability. Norway is part of Europe, and our economy is largely dependent on this market. In addition, many Norwegian banks are branches of banks with ownership based in EU countries. It is therefore important that the Norwegian financial industry has a regulatory framework and competitive conditions similar to those in Europe. The recommendations of the Banking Law Commission have been a major leader in the proposals put forward by the Government in the Proposition, Prop. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth A broad set of new rules is being introduced to prevent and manage crises in banks. Overall, this will contribute to lower risks in the banking and financial sectors. The Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme is continued and strengthened by the proposals contained in the suspension. The main legislative changes to the deposit guarantee provide an unlimited guarantee for certain types of deposits for up to 12 months, such as: client accounts deposits deposits for the transfer of immovable property by way of a home purchase securing wealth related to specific life events, such as: switch insurance payments; claims the general deposit guarantee on deposits of 2 million. kr per depositor is also continued. I am pleased that the government is in process with the EU to ensure that the bank deposit guarantee can be continued at this level. With regard to the changes in the laws dealing with crisis management in banks, we implement EU legislation in this area. This Directive shall be incorporated into the EEA Agreement on 9 February of this year. The aim is to prevent and address financial problems in banks in order to protect financial stability, customer deposits and public funds. There is a more detailed regulatory framework requiring the preparation of contingency and crisis management plans for possible cases of failure of soundness and solvency. The establishment of a national crisis fund is also required. As the rapporteur said, financial supervision becomes a crisis management authority. But the main decisions are to be taken by the Ministry and anchored in the Stortinget. The most significant change is that of internal capitalisation, the so-called ‘bail-in’ rule, which means that a bank debt in difficulty can be converted into equity. In this way, losses are covered, soundness is strengthened and the business can be continued. This should therefore reduce the risk of crises and contribute to more predictability and orderly solutions in the event of a crisis. Norway has the best-capitalised banking insurance fund in Europe, of 32.5 billion. kr at the end of 2016, corresponding to 2,7 pst. of guaranteed deposits. The funds are transferred to two new funds: the deposit guarantee fund and the crisis response fund. It is important to ensure that those funds continue to be built. The annual payment requirement shall be continued. At the same time, payments are to be differentiated to a much greater extent than at present according to the risk profile of the individual bank. The banks' hedge funds shall continue to manage the deposit guarantee scheme and manage the funds of the deposit guarantee fund and the crisis response fund. The Banking Fund shall assist the Financial Supervision in the performance of new tasks, as set out in paragraph 1. new legislation. It involves several tasks and more responsibility for the banks' insurance funds, which will subsequently have their activities regulated by a separate law and a board appointed by the ministry, not by the banks themselves as today. There is a broad political consensus in Norway that when we regulate the financial markets, we must give priority to the soundness and security of customers in the banks. It is also important that a broad majority of the committee supports the proposals in the vote. This is a legislative proposal that is sensible and responsible, and which, in addition to contributing to lower risks in the banking sector, can over time save the Norwegian economy and public expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e764	I would also like to start by thanking the case manager for a thorough review, both here and in the committee, when the matter was discussed there. We've seen on a number of occasions, both here in Norway and especially internationally, what the consequences can be when banks go over the top. With the introduction of these new directives and the close follow-up of businesses such as wear and tear, we can be more confident that banks will go overboard. We are forced to impose strict requirements on both capital and buffers. It is important that entrepreneurs and the Financial Supervisory Authority draw up plans to correct their financial situation if they are to be weakened. For some companies, some of these plans will require a lot of resources. I am therefore pleased that it is possible to establish simpler requirements, based on size and risk. When no The Bank's hedging fund is to be divided into two funds, an Inlet Guarantee Fund and a Crisis Response Fund, we ensure that significant funds are made available when the new legislation enters into force. It is natural that high-risk businesses will have to pay a higher proportion than they did before, and it is therefore positive that the annual contributions to the two funds will be more risk-differentiated than they have previously been. For Norway, it's important to have an inlet guarantee of $2 million. kr, and that the government will continue to work to keep this scheme. I'm glad that a joint committee is behind this. It provides security for all those who wish to have their money securely placed in the bank account. Despite the fact that the new requirements entail an increase in administrative and financial burdens, both for the public and for the business community, I am sure that in the long term it will reduce the risk of economic problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e777	This is an extremely important matter that we have to deal with today. This concerns the consideration of both Norwegian private individuals and companies. It is about the consideration of the banks, but it is also about the stability of the Norwegian society at large, which several others have also been involved in. The banking crisis and the financial crisis can have major and long-term consequences, as history has also shown us. Of course, I agree with previous speakers who say that one should also have international cooperation, but one of the most important things for us as countries is to ensure national governance and control with such an important industry as this. And we need both to pay attention to the total size and growth of the financial sector and to provide a varied industry with many actors of different sizes. In particular, it is important to facilitate small actors across the country. Several have shown that the deposit guarantee, which in Norway is 2 million. kr, has been under pressure from the EU for a long time. It is very important and good that an overall committee is behind that guarantee. It is central to confidence, both for customers who have deposits in the bank, and important for banks and for the stability of society. If a crisis is under way, it is very important that people who have money in the bank do not lose confidence and take out the money. However, I should also like the government to stress the importance of the guarantee and the status of the negotiations with the European Union. Norway has a peculiar economic situation. The Norwegian financial system has special features that make national control extra important. The central party believes that it was extremely unwise to subject the Norwegian financial supervision to EU financial supervision. We believe that the government should come back with proposals to restore real Norwegian sovereignty over financial regulation. Secondly, we believe that the government must come to Stortinget with concrete proposals on how to strengthen financial supervision. We must use the space for action we have within the EEA Agreement, and if necessary it must also be challenged. Norwegian taxpayers should not be left with the bank and financial crisis bill. That's not underlined clearly enough in the proposition. That is why we also believe – and have suggested – that the Stortinget must ask the government through regulation to establish precisely this. If rescue operations also take place for banks, Norwegian taxpayers should not be charged, but the industry itself should handle them. And should there be a need in extraordinary situations to handle things differently, it must be treated as a matter of its own in the Storting in the individual case. The size and rapid growth of the financial sector pose a risk to the Norwegian economy. Especially worrying is the growth of debt that we see in households. It is therefore particularly important to strengthen financial supervision and to ensure national control. The smaller banks and financial undertakings must be treated fairly. In some cases, small banks and small financial undertakings may have the same risks as larger financial undertakings, but in sum they contribute to the spread of risks. The fact that one has many actors, that not all eggs are grouped in one curve, helps to ensure the stability and security of the system. Therefore, we believe it is important that these small actors pay a relatively smaller fee to the deposit guarantee fund and the crisis management fund than to the major actors. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of finding a model for the election of directors of the Banking Insurance Fund, which clearly indicates that the Fund is not a government agency, but nevertheless makes the State have the necessary control. I would like to include the suggestions in the settings of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e798	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e803	When we deal with such an important topic and adopt important improvements in the law, it is good that there is so much consensus – not only in this room, but also in the industry. Over the past 30 years, Norway has experienced both a serious banking crisis and a global financial crisis. Important lessons have been learned from these crises and measures implemented. The decisions to be taken by the Storting today will provide further improvements. When Stortinget deals with this matter, it is at a time with some dark clouds in the horizon. The economy is on its way internationally, but is less equipped to deal with new major crises. The measures taken after the financial crisis have led to greater disparities, more uncertainty in the labour market and a large gap in welfare systems in many countries. These are policy choices that make society less robust and more vulnerable when economic crises again hit. In Norway, the level of debt is high and the growth of consumer loans is alarming. The IMF has repeatedly reported concerns about the Norwegian housing market and among others. warning against potential bubbles. Many of the most important approaches to increased financial stability are not necessarily about regulation of the financial sector. When the tax system fires up under the property market, it is more appropriate to do something about the tax system than to close more young people out of the housing market. As the labour market becomes more uncertain, wages decline and economic uncertainties increase, there is also a threat to financial stability in a country. A good and well-regulated financial sector is extremely important, but we should not forget that there are other fundamental economic forces in turn. The proposition we are dealing with here today contains several important steps to ensure regular banking customers and implies that banks have to bear a greater share of the risk and the cost themselves. In particular, I would like to highlight the introduction of the principle of ‘bail-in’, which implies that the creditors of the undertaking are more liable in a crisis situation than that of the community’s money to save the lenders of the banks. The Nordics save most of their money in banks and, in the case of ordinary savings, they should not be allowed to sit and fine-tune the risk profile of each bank. The Norwegian deposit guarantee is therefore particularly important, and a change that we support is extended coverage for up to 12 months for certain types of deposits. This proposal will be important for the safety of citizens through a living life. I am pleased that an overall committee underlines the importance of maintaining the Norwegian guarantee limit of 2 million today. NOK, also in addition to 2018, and I hope the Minister of Finance will take note of this. At the same time, SV would like the majority of the Committee to take a step further, because there is a legitimate fear that negotiations with the EU will not lead to this point. The question is what kind of grip the government will then take. That is why we are also proposing today that the government should inform Stortinget immediately if one during the negotiations has reason to believe that our requirement for a limit of 2 million. kr is not being implemented. SV supports, together with the rest of the Committee, the establishment of a crisis response fund and the allocation of funds in the current hedging fund between a deposit guarantee fund and a crisis response fund. The Banks Insurance Fund currently holds about 2.75 p.m. of guaranteed deposits, and as a joint committee writes in the submission, this is not too high and should continue to be built up. There is also something that Norway’s Bank and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority point out. There is reason to recall that if one of the banks that is now almost exclusively providing funding through deposits would end up, it alone would involve significant losses for the fund. That's why it's worth bringing it before you discuss setting a roof. It is therefore also reasonable, in the opinion of the SV, that the risk profile of the banks affects the contribution of the banks to the fund. I will end by bringing forward the Financial Supervisory Board, which is now facing more and more important tasks in terms of preparedness and crisis management. In the opinion of SV, that is good. It is therefore also essential that we have strong financial supervision, and we therefore propose that the government should come back to Stortinget with a proposal to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e826	Banks and financial institutions play an important role in the economy. They offer payment services, deposits and loans to households and enterprises and insurance against real risk, such as fire, sickness and death, and against financial risk, such as sudden price changes in currency, interest and commodities. The financial industry provides crucial financial infrastructure to serve households and enterprises across the country and is to be considered as an infrastructure industry. In the Christian People's Party, we are committed to bringing with us the lessons of the international financial crisis. The crisis was due to the fact that banks, governments, investors and households allowed too much debt to build up and too high a risk. Banks had too little equity. They developed complex financial products that made the price and risk difficult to see for investors, and they built up a large financial group that could assume that they would be saved by the authorities if things were going wrong. The Christian People's Party is concerned that too much money in the financial sector is partly for speculative purposes that are privately profitable but socially unprofitable. Similarly, there is a risk that the financial sector may take excessive prices for its services because of lack of competition or lack of transparency. The financial crisis was reduced in Norway, not least because, following the banking crisis of the 1990s, we had introduced stricter regulations than other countries, including the United Kingdom. with higher requirements for the equity of banks. Special regulation was a priority in the face of the crisis because it gave us more solid banks and fewer speculative financial products. But also here in the country, we have big system-critical financial groups, primarily DNB. Also in this country, the largest banks were able to step down their equity and assign lower risk weights to residential loans, paradoxically as housing prices increased. Here too, complex products developed to the advantage of banks in dealing with ordinary investors and consumers with lack of information. And also here in countries, we need to improve the rules for banking crisis management, as this proposition adds up to. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to continue the Bank's Insurance Fund, to establish a new crisis management fund and a crisis management authority for banks and other financial institutions. The Banks Insurance Fund currently holds about 2.75 p.m. of guaranteed deposits, and like the Committee's comment in the vote, I would like to stress that this is not too high and should be further built. A new and extended regime for the deposit-guarantee scheme and the crisis-resolving mechanisms provide new and expanded tasks for both governmental bodies and banks’ insurance funds. Therefore, it is important to keep the Storting and the public informed about the development of the deposit guarantee and crisis resolution regime through the annual financial market notification. Finally, the Christian People's Party, like a joint committee in the vote, will stress the importance of maintaining the Norwegian deposit guarantee limit of 2 million today. kr in excess of 2018. The Christian People's Party believes that the government is continuing negotiations with the EU with a view to achieving this. Here in countries, we save a great deal of money and a good deposit guarantee is more important to us than in many other European countries. The Christian People's Party does not see the need for its own proposals on this, but assumes that the Stortinget is kept constantly informed about the negotiations on the deposit guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e841	The proposal under consideration today by Stortinget implies that the new EU Deposit Guarantee Directive and the Banking Crisis Management Directive are being implemented in Norwegian law. In Norway, we have a long tradition of good arrangements to secure customers' deposits if a bank were to end. As early as 1924, deposits in savings banks were subject to legal protection through the Saving Banks Insurance Fund, and in 1961 a similar arrangement was established for commercial banks. Since 1996, we have had a deposit guarantee of 2 million. kr per depositor per bank. The government's bill continues and strengthens the deposit guarantee. We will introduce unlimited guarantees for certain types of deposits for up to 12 months, including: for residential deposits, special life events, insurance payments and claims. The general guarantee level of 2 million. continue and the government is still working towards the EU with a view to retaining the guarantee even after the end of 2018. We'll brief the Storting when there's something to announce. Our Code of Conduct for the Management of Banks in Crisis came into force after the Norwegian banking crisis in the 1990s and has worked well in the few cases we have had to use it. The government’s legislative proposals involve the implementation of the new EU crisis management legislation, designed in the light of experience from the international financial crisis. The Directive is based on many of the same principles as current Norwegian legislation, and the legislative proposal therefore primarily involves a further development of the existing system. The main objective of the new rules is to facilitate the prevention and management of financial problems in banks in a way that protects financial stability, customer deposits and public funds. It will help to reduce the risk of crises in the banking sector and contribute to more predictable and orderly solutions in the event of crises. It can save Norwegian economy and public expenditure. In addition, the proposed rules will ensure that the bank's owners and creditors will be liable in the event of financial difficulties. Owners and creditors shall cover the Bank's losses and, where appropriate, raise fresh capital if there is a basis for further operations. The proposal also provides for a clearer accountability of owners and creditors. Under the current legislation, Norwegian banks have not been able to count on public rescue operations if they have problems, and such expectations will be even less justified after the bill. The international financial crisis, as well as our own banking crisis, clearly showed how high the cost of problems in the banking sector can be. We should bear in mind that several of the countries that have contributed to the design of the crisis management directive are still characterised by increased unemployment, impaired economic prospects, weak government finances and banks that are not working properly. Norway currently has one of the best capitalised banking insurance funds in Europe. The legislative proposal implies that these funds are allocated to two new funds to support the deposit guarantee and crisis management. The Government proposes to continue annual payments from banks approximately at the current level until further notice. The continued build-up of the funds is important in order to address any problems in the banking sector in an appropriate manner and to secure the guaranteed deposits. As the government announces in the proposition, we will eventually assess whether there should be a ceiling on the size of the funds. The banks' hedge funds are independent of the State on the basis of the legislative proposal. However, to the extent that there should be concern about some of the organisational provisions of the bill, this is something I would like to look into before the legal rules can come into force. Finally, let me mention that the annual payments to the funds after the bill will be more risk-differentiated than today. This means that the most risky banks, and in particular the so-called consumer loan banks, have to pay more for the deposit guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e869	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e875	The Stortinget proposal invites the adoption today to make some significant changes in the organisation of banks' insurance funds. The members, which are all the banks of the country, currently represent a general meeting, electing five out of seven members of the board, and now it is proposed that all seven should be appointed by the Ministry. There has been a concern from Finance Norway that the proximity between the Ministry/State and the Banks Insurance Fund raises doubts about the independence of the Insurance Fund from the State. It emphasises, in turn, that the use of funds from the Bank's Insurance Fund can be regarded as State aid. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is whether she can say a little about what assessments are behind the appointment of members of the board of directors, and whether the Council of State can assure us that necessary considerations have been made as to whether there is a risk of breach of the State aid law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e884	Let me first say that the deposit guarantee scheme after the bill will continue to be independent of the state, as it is also under the applicable law. The State is not liable for guarantee liability to depositors. The Banks Insurance Fund shall, on its proposal, continue to manage the deposit-guarantee scheme and, in addition, manage the funds, both in the deposit-guarantee scheme and in the crisis-management fund. In addition, the Banking Insurance Fund is now given the task of assisting the Financial Supervision in the performance of new tasks. In view of that, the financial industry should not have a dominant influence over the board. Board members holding senior management positions in banks or appointed on a proposal from the banking industry are likely to give rise to instability conflicts. The most important thing is that they are qualified and have good and relevant competence. To the extent that there should still be some concern about State aid legislation, there is something I want to look into and assure myself before the rules come into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e893	All the parties that are here, including the Workers' Party, are very concerned with the 2-million guarantee. There's a minority proposal on the table where the government is asked to come back and orientate the Storting if this is going to play. We have not supported it because the Workers' Party believes it will follow normal practice, so I wonder if the Council of State can confirm that she will keep the Stortinget informed about the development of the 2-million guarantee limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e898	As I said in my post, I will of course orientate the Storting when there is something to announce. I am glad that there is movement in the matter, and that it can approach a solution, but there is still work to be done. Yes, of course I'd like to orientate the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e905	I thank the Council of State for the clarification she gave there. I then perceive that one would immediately inform Stortinget if one had reason to believe that the deposit guarantee had to change the amount limit, and that there was still a Norwegian position that it would be 2 million. kr. I would like to ask the Council of State to give its assessment of what will be the consequences if Norway does not manage to maintain the 2 million mark. kr. An overall committee has just highlighted the importance of this, both for Norwegian savers, for banks and, ultimately, for the stability of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e912	This is an arrangement there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that we have enjoyed. That is why we are working towards the EU to ensure that we can extend this beyond 2018. I have only worked to try to help Norway get the best possible solution. As I said, of course, I want to inform the Storting about it. I think I'm going to be careful to wonder what might be the consequences, because I think that job number one is about doing what we can to ensure that the scheme continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e917	In terms of impact speculation, it has something to do with highlighting the importance of the Norwegian scheme and why it is essential to ensure it. So to what the representative Lyngedal took up in his first line, which went on the appointment of the board members of the Banks Insurance Fund and the recording that has come, among other things. by the financial industry. Given both what one has received from the financial industry and the debate that has been around it, would it not be wise to come up with a new model for the election of directors that clearly indicates that the fund is not a body for the state, but at the same time that one will ensure the necessary control?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e924	I have actually replied to that. I think we're all concerned that independence should be maintained in a good way, and that we have board members who are primarily qualified and have both good and relevant competence to do their job. But as I also said, there are a number of factors here that I want to assure myself further about before the rules come into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e929	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e945	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions by the member of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e954	The Committee has examined a proposal from the Workers’ Party on changes to the Marriage Act – prohibiting child marriage in Norway. The issue is that it should be up to the individual when and to whom he/she is going to marry, and that young people under the age of 18 must not get married because of social pressure or expectations. The case also refers to one of the UN's 2030 sustainability goals, which is about ending child marriage, and therefore proposes to amend the marriage law so that persons under the age of 18 cannot enter into marriage. We received answers from the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, at the time Solvency Horne, dated 16 November 2017, saying that the government would shortly send a proposal for consultation with the same content as this proposal for a representative. The Council of State considered that amendments to the marriage law should be treated as a standard legal act, but also indicated that the time limit for consultation was shortened and that the matter is therefore a high priority. In this case, a proposal has been made, namely that the Stortinget asks the government to consider proposing a provision of the marriage law prohibiting the conclusion of a prior marriage agreement for persons under 18 years of age. The majority of the committee, consisting of the government parties and the Christian People's Party, sees it as difficult to imagine what legal effects such a ban will have. Such a prohibition would also be difficult to enforce. If the concept is intended to encroach on marriage agreements that are contrary to the free will of individuals, this is already affected by a prohibition of forced marriage. In the case of the case itself, prohibiting marriage for children under 18 years of age, there is full agreement in the Committee. There is no disagreement in the committee that this should be introduced, but the question is how quickly we should do it. The majority believe that this should be included in a fully-fledged legislative process, in order to ensure the proper functioning of proceedings relating to such a legislative proposal. I believe that the various parties will promote their views on this matter on their own behalf. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to ask how quickly we can get a case to the Storting on this, because this is an important matter. To have to marry against their free will, to have to marry, it is already a prohibition, and we have to do what we can to ensure that this prohibition is complied with. By prohibiting the marriage of persons under 18 years of age, we can do so through the law. I'm very excited to hear from the Council of State how the department is now working on this, and how quickly we can get a case to the Stortinget, so that we can adopt this law as quickly as possible. Otherwise, I would like to thank the representatives who have promoted this matter. As I said, there is no disagreement in the committee on the intentions here, that is the pace we disagree a little bit about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e969	Thank you to the President-in-Office for reviewing the matter. It's about brave girls and boys who stand up to social expectations and cultural control that destroys, that creates fear and fear, and that also leads to death. The Labour Party is promoting this proposal because there is an ongoing international action to get countries such as Norway to take the lead in promoting resistance to child marriage. Members of Plan, children and young people, have stood up to this mantra in some cultures called ‘become like me’. Narrow social frameworks should not fall on our young people's heads. So 9,400 young people went to the statesmen with letters and asked that a change of laws be introduced. We have to start with ourselves,' said the youth. It seemed that the Workers' Party was a good idea, and we then started the process of promoting this proposal. When we talk about children, it might be true to say "it was once," and it was once that we had a government that would take leadership in the world when it came to assistance and equality. It's not quite like that anymore. It seems that this government has to be pulled a little after the hair. If it is not a parliamentary expression, we can say that they need other parties on the Grand Duchy that push them in the right direction. They seem to have left the towing vehicle themselves. This bill is about giving a signal to other countries and also to parents in Norway who are assessing such agreements. It is also right, as the rapporteur said, that the government is working on a proposal. We think so in the Workers' Party that it actually happens that Stortinget adopts legislative proposals from this Chamber, and I don't think I'm completely wrong – although I have to admit that I haven't checked it in Stortinget's minutes – but I can imagine that the Right Party and the Advance Party have occasionally promoted legislative proposals from this pulpit in their history. This proposal is well-founded, it is manageable, it is legally binding if the Storing will, and it can now be adopted. That's what the majority chooses not to do, and that's to the extent that it's okay – we have to wait a little longer. However, I find the argument a little strange, that when they shorten the consultation period in order to speed up, that is an argument for ensuring good and proper treatment. It will be exciting to see when the proposal comes to Stortinget, whether there will be so many changes. As regards proposal No: 2, the case rapporteur did something about it. We ask the government to consider proposing a ban. We think it is important that it is established in the form of law that it is, in fact, forbidden to enter into prior agreements on marriage. The instruments and penalties to be applied are problematic. That's what we want the government to come back to. So it's hoping that this proposal, proposal no. 2, also becomes part of the assessment the size makes, for this matter is important, and it is too important not to be taken seriously. So the working party is of the opinion that we think it's too important for us to wait. I address the proposals of the Labour Party with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e984	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e989	The right agrees with the proposers that the age limit for marriage in Norway is 18 years. In Norway, we should not accept the marriage of minors. The age limit should therefore be of an appropriate age. We now have such an age limit, but we also have an exemption. Although there are very few under 18 years of age who have been exempted from marriage in recent years, an absolute age limit will give a clear signal both in Norway and abroad that we do not accept that minors marry in Norway. On 16 November last year, during the examination of the matter in the Committee, we received a letter from the Minister for Children and Gender Solvency Horne. The Committee was then informed that the government had already decided to submit a proposal to consult on the amendment of the marriage law. There is a similar proposal for amendments to the marriage law, and this will also lead to the possibility of discontinuing the possibility of granting a derogation to persons between 16 and 18 years of age to marry in Norway, thereby imposing an absolute 18-year age limit for marriage in Norway. That proposal has been put to the hearing, the Ministry has received a response to the hearing, so it is soon clear that the government can send such a matter over to the Stortinget. The proposition will also involve changes to the marriage law and most likely have proposals that we are discussing here in the Chamber today. Thus, the Stortinget will be able to adopt a proposal for a new marriage law in a short time. What is the difference between the proposal to be promoted by the government and the proposal we are discussing today? This proposal from the Labour Party has not been consulted and has not been adequately addressed, as legislative proposals in Norway should have. We think it is unfortunate that the Workers' Party seems to start an unfortunate practice that departs from the comprehensive treatment of legislative changes for which we have a democratic tradition in Norway. Although I agree with much of what the representative before me said, it becomes a less urgent argument when the representative himself knows that it is a proposal that is already on the stairs. We in the Right are firm in our principle that the processing of new laws should be sent to the hearing, so that interested parties are given the opportunity to comment and be heard. It is important because it broadens the knowledge base for political decisions and legislative acts, and it also guarantees legitimacy in the laws adopted by the Stortinget. This is a very important principle for the Right, which we believe cannot be circumvented, even when our motives are good and the unity of the Biggest. The Ministry’s proposal has been consulted, so we want to await the treatment of new marriage laws after the government’s proposal has been submitted to the Stortinget. That is why we believe that the Right should vote against the proposal from the Labour Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1002	Every year over 15 million girls in the world are married away as children – there are quite a few every day. Child marriage is perhaps one of the main barriers to schooling and gender equality for girls today, not least in the case of the development of poor countries. As Plan Norway underlines, child marriage is a violation of children’s rights. It is simply a global problem, which exists across countries, cultures, religions and ethnicity. Child marriage affects most girls, most of them in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, but there are child brides in all regions of the world. In fact, they are also found in Norway. Thursday we're going to celebrate the Women's Day. The Progress Party and I believe that the fight against child marriage is perhaps one of our time's most important women's affairs. For this reason, it is important that Norway also takes the lead here. Such marriages are simply a brake block on education, equality and the economic growth desired in the world. Fortunately, in our country, there are very few under 18 years of age who have been exempted from marriage in recent years. However, having an absolute age limit is a clear signal both within Norway and beyond our borders that we do not accept the marriage of children in Norway. The Progress Party and I agree with the proposers that the age limit for marriage in Norway is 18 years. We agree on the target. However, we do not fully agree on that path. I think the representative from the Right really argued very well why the position today does not choose to support the proposal for a representative. As the rapporteur stressed, the former Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Solvency Horne, wrote in his letter of reply to the proposal for a representative that ‘changes in the marriage law should be treated as an ordinary legal act and sent to the general hearing’. When new laws are to be introduced, this must be done in the right way. The fact that the Workers' Party is not willing to accept this shows that it is not necessarily concerned that the law should have a good and well-worked content to care for the children. I must also point out, since the Workers' Party criticized the position, that the Workers' Party itself has been in government for eight years and had the opportunity to ban child marriage, but they did as well as nothing at the time with this challenge. So why the urgent hurry now? I must be allowed to put some question marks on that. The promotion party is concerned about getting a clear and clear law that ensures children against child marriage. We therefore believe it is important to wait until the government submits a revised legislative proposal. I hope that all parties can stand together about it – when that law comes to Stortinget. Otherwise – in conclusion – I would just like to point out what the rapporteur said about the second proposal by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV, on the prior agreement on marriage, that there are some problematic aspects to it. I would also like to stress that the government takes the utmost seriously the follow-up to the action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and sexual mutilation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1021	The Central Party supports this proposal for a representative from the Workers' Party. There is broad agreement to introduce an absolute 18-year limit for marriage in Norway. And as we have heard from many examples from the pulpit already today, there are many good reasons for this. The Ministry has also had a hearing on this matter and on the basis of the replies received, it seems to me that the proposals receive unreserved support from the hearing bodies. This is a step in the right direction and is strictly taken in overtime, because it has so many negative consequences for those affected, but also because it is rarely applied for exemption to get married before the age of 18. I need to address another aspect of the proposal, namely a wording, a term. For words are power, words define, words are charged with positive and negative connotations, words touch us, words provoke, and words contain messages. That's exactly why I think it's time to leave the term 'child marriage'. It's now a separate word, and it's a very unfortunate concept. Marriage is largely associated with something positive, which is usually between two people who are happy with each other. When we talk about marriage between or with children, on the other hand, we're really talking about assaulting and renunciation of a child's freedom and childhood – a gross violation. Recently, the administration of the Court of Justice could tell that they are now addressing the use of the word ‘child pornography’ by the courts as a concept. Kripos believes that the term takes the attacker's point of view and is impropriety and misleading. All the honors of the court administration that take hold and want a more precise use of terms. We should share the same view on the concept of ‘childhood’. In the setting, the Central Party points out in its note how children's marriages are now referred to internationally. The term has now been extended to ‘Child, Early and Forced Marriage’. Translating to Norwegian, it will be child and coercion marriages, we get information from Plan Norway. We and more of us believe that the terminology ‘child and coercion’ should be incorporated into the Norwegian language, and therefore cross our fingers to ensure that it does not happen for too long. Enough about conceptual usage. The most interesting thing about this issue today is not whether the Storting wants an absolute 18-year limit to be introduced into the marriage law, because it is a major political consensus. So maybe the minority and the Labour Party don't get a majority, and it's a little bit about tempo here, but the most interesting thing is, when can we expect the amendment to the law we want to come into force? The hearing notes were sent out in December 2017, and the hearing ended on 2 February 2018. We are at the beginning of March now, and the Council of State has said that the matter is of high priority. So, when does the bill come from the government? I expect it to come quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1036	Child and coercion marriage is very serious for those affected, but it is also serious for the whole community. This is a form of violence against children that is often part of a larger picture with negative social control, pressure and honor-related violence. Therefore, it is important to prohibit children’s genuineness to combat oppressive structures that severely affect Norwegian children and young people. It's about liberation, it'll send an important signal, and it'll mean a lot to them. Therefore, SV supports this proposal. It's a shame to see that the government parties are not in today. Some questions I really believe for once that it is not necessary to investigate. Some issues are quite obvious – children’s rights should be prohibited. It is especially worth noting what the current Minister of Children Hofstad Helleland said in 2010 about the then Councillor Audun Lysbakken – to take a little historical parallel. At the time, Hofstad Helleland said: ‘The light tray enters the sequence of a handful of children’s ministers in the last five years who investigate, evaluate and reduce samples.’ I think that is embarrassing today, when the government has no political will to carry out something as obvious as banning child marriage, but must also investigate it. The matter has been settled. This room is legislative authority and the law will apply if it is adopted today. That is why it is a pity for all the children who live in this form of violence and extreme control every day that the proposal is today put to the vote. Then we'll just hope that there'll be at least an equally good proposal on the table from the government quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1052	In this case, we agree with this room. There should be an absolute limit of 18 years and the derogation for 16- and 17-year-olds should be removed. As all the former representatives have said, there is no disagreement here, but for me and for the Left, it has been important to look at the processes to come up with a bill. The starting point is that there should be a process where you have a thorough review and ensure that all recordings from the hearing bodies are included in the preparatory work of the law in a good way. That way, we also ensure that all perspectives are actually included. Then I agree that in some cases it is important that you also have the opportunity in a big room to speed up processes. In this case, however, the Committee has already been informed that the processes are underway on the part of the Ministry and that a hearing has already been carried out at present. And when the matter has come this far, I see no reason for us to adopt this ban today – when we know that it is not long until there is actually a good, well-worked proposal. I would also like to point out that this is not the way to stand today without any legislation regarding forced marriage. For forced marriages are already prohibited today, it is important to underline. Then we have to make sure that we seal all of the possible gaps in the legislation. We are going to deal with such a proposal, but let's take it when it's actually a good, reworked proposal that comes to the Storting, where everyone's perspectives in a consultation round are also included.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1061	The marriage law opens today to allow persons between 16 and 18 to marry in Norway. I believe, like very many others from this pulpit, that we cannot accept that minors marry in Norway, and we should not have a code that supports such a practice. Although very few have been exempted from marriage in recent years, an absolute age limit will send a clearer signal, in Norway and not least abroad, that we do not accept that minors marry in Norway. I therefore fully agree with the proposers and want the age limit for marrying in Norway to be 18 years, without any possibility of exemption. Not least, this is a very important signal to send to the rest of the world. Internationally, Norway has a responsibility to go ahead with fundamental human rights in determining its own life and body. It is also an important signal to send in connection with the UN's sustainability objectives, because we know that this has great consequences for the people affected. It is for many children and young people about the loss of schooling, excluding childhood and a life of coercion and overgrowth. I am pleased that the whole Storting ends up with the proposal, and that you want to stand together about it. I understand the impatience, and it's absolutely high time that we did something about this now. But the government, and I as the Council of State, have to deal with the investigation instructions we follow, and in all matters and decisions to be made here in the Stortinget – especially if the government parties are to contribute to it – it is important for us to ensure a good basis for decisions to be taken. It is important that we give good reasons for the decisions we make, and that we are sure that they do not have any unintended effects. I am very pleased that we have received the answers to the government's proposal, and that there were very many positive statements of support for the proposal that the government sent out at the hearing. This means that the government is working as quickly as possible to put this change in place, and that as soon as we can, we can put forward a bill for Stortinget this spring, so that we can follow up this proposal in a good and thorough way – as all the legislative proposals, at least to a very large extent, are dealt with in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1075	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1080	Now we've heard posts from the government parties, and I have to say it's been a long time since I've heard so much immortality and so many self-indulgence from the pulpit in a matter. It might be related to the fact that we're pretty much in agreement. But the argument for not taking decisions seems to me to be quite thin, and it varies from that we already have legislative proposals, to that we should do a thorough job, but not so thorough that we need a long hearing, the hearing replies have already begun to come in, and that is a great deal of excitement. I think this is actually a bit of a bad argument, but that's the way it is in Stortinget – sometimes we have good and sometimes bad arguments. The right-wing representative said from the pulpit that there is an important principle for the right which cannot be circumvented, even when the consensus is large, and that is that we take decisions on legislative proposals directly in the Storting. Has the Council of State Helleland, as a representative of the Grand Duchy, presented proposals directly in the House of Storting, so-called representative proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1087	I've definitely done it. It was because during the red-green – during the eight years of Stoltenberg – we often got the answer, investigations and samples. Both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party gave that answer. It took a very long time for the red-greens to agree. You sat and negotiated for a long time. We have also read about how representatives from the government at the time said that it took a very, very long time, and things got exposed because the disagreement was very big. This government has often been accused of having too fast progress. We want to implement things and make changes, but at the same time we want proper treatment. I would like to stress that I am working quickly on this matter, and that it will not be long before Stortinget submits a billing proposal with this ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1094	I thank you for the story of what is now 13 years back in time. So now this government has been in charge for five years, and here it is a bill that is clear, unambiguous, very easy to adopt and easy to follow up. There is no political disagreement about it, there is no need for investigations, there is no need for postponement from the government. Nevertheless, the Council of State and the Government parties choose to postpone the decision. Can the Council of State explain to the Council what kind of elements the Council of State believes can come into the further investigation and which will affect the non-adoption of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1099	I have never said that I need to investigate this proposal. I don't know where the representative got that impression. I work quickly on this matter, and I am very happy that we have received the hearing opinions, because it was important to me. And when I'm going to file a case for Stortinget, I ask for respect for the fact that I'm allowed to follow the investigation manual – also to send matters to the hearing. When I and the government make a proposal to the Stortinget, we want to have well-founded decisions and be sure that the proposal has no unintended effects – so that I can recommend the Stortinget to support such a proposal. That is why I would like to stress once again that I am bringing the matter to Stortinget as quickly as it can be done, but then after we have followed the investigation instructions that the red-green government also followed in every case they put before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1104	As relatively fresh I don't know if I'm looking forward to having a ping-pong game over the next four years about who's doing what investigations, there's obviously been a lot of investigations. The minister said earlier that in particular in the previous period – in cases where one was very disagreeable – investigations were conducted. In this case, we do not disagree. Before the debate in today's meeting, I think the minister knew that we were impatient. I respect the fact that the minister wants to follow a certain procedure one has confidence in, to present a case. But I would really like it to be a little bit more numerically fixed than just the spring, because it can extend until 1 June. Is it possible to pinpoint something more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1111	I would like to stress once again that I have never said that I have investigated this matter. I have now received the hearing replies, I am going through the hearing replies and will summarize them in a proposition for the Storting as soon as possible. I can't stand here and tell you how many days or weeks it will go on, but as soon as it's possible, the government will file the matter for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1116	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1132	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1141	The Committee has examined a proposal for a representative on fair and anti-poverty child welfare. Let me first of all thank the Committee for its good work on the proposal for a representative, which deals with an important topic. I would also like to thank the proposers for their commitment to children living in low-income families, also called child poverty, which we are all concerned about and want to do something about. Child poverty is a continuing challenge for society. Children who grow up in poor families experience a different childhood than many other children. It's almost so hard to understand how bad it can be for a child to miss out on simple joys that other children take for granted. Some children have e.g. do not participate in recreational activities because the equipment is too expensive. Fortunately, many voluntary teams and youth organisations are good at including and assisting children in need of equipment. Some children never experience being able to invite the others to the kindergarten or to the class of birthday celebration, simply because it costs to organize babysitting. Some people are also kept at home from other people's birthday, because it costs to bring gifts, and because it creates expectations that you should invite yourself. Some children worry until the holiday is over, because then others come back with stories about vacations and activities. Maybe they've been on their own cabin and been skiing. Perhaps they have traveled to warmer places and participated in exciting excursions, while others have had to be at home. It is sad to be the student who has no holiday memories to share. There is no doubt that such stories do something to all of us. We all want to make sure that fewer children are growing up in poverty. That is why it is a joint committee which gives its support to the initiative in this matter. The Committee is also clear on the importance of child protection. There is an ongoing debate on whether the scheme should be universal or needs-tested. It's interesting to note that of those who were at the hearing in the matter, most people made it clear that they believe that child-responsiveness should continue as a universal system. Child protection has been maintained at the same nominal amount since 1996, thus gradually weakening the value of the scheme as inflation progresses. It is difficult to find accurate and accurate figures for how many children grow up in poverty. This is mainly due to the absence of an adopted poverty limit in Norway. Nevertheless, estimates such as: Bufdir that one in ten children lives in poverty. There's too many of them. The SSB report ‘The income, wealth and debt of families of children 2004–2014’ shows that much of the child poverty is due to the increase in the number of immigrant families. Many of these families are out of the labour market. They are likely to do so because of a combination of poor Norwegian knowledge, low education and low skills relevant to the Norwegian labour market. I am therefore pleased that the government has implemented many and effective measures against child poverty both in the previous and during this ageing period. In 2015, it presented its own strategy against child poverty. In it, there were all 64 measures. It is a question of ensuring that all children are given equal opportunities for participation and development, regardless of the level of income of their parents. It has, among other things, have been introduced more reasonable kindergarten space and free core time for those with low income. A trial project has also been launched with a free school holiday scheme for children from low-income families. Finally, I would like to mention the national grant scheme against child poverty, set up by the government, which has now increased to 224 million. kr for this year. The scheme helps many children to carry out activities under the auspices of voluntary teams and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1173	The Labour Party believes that child poverty should be combated along two tracks. The first and perhaps most important thing is the taskbar. The fact that the parents of children are out of work and activity and can support themselves, their children and their families is the best way out of poverty. But the second track is that it helps those who, for some reason, are out of work and do not get in, very little. Therefore, targeted measures are needed to take the families where we know that the poorest children live. Universal welfare schemes that make good use of families with children contribute to reducing poverty and combating differences. Child welfare is such a universal social welfare scheme, which goes to all families with children. Since 1946 everyone, regardless of income, has received child benefit. It is important for the legitimacy of our welfare system that we have arrangements that everyone receives. Child insurance should never be a redistribution to low-income families. There should be a redistribution between families with and without dependent children. So it is not a system designed to eradicate child poverty, but it is a system that is important in the fight against child poverty. It is determined by sample selection – the distribution selection a few years ago and now at the latest the Ellingsetter selection. We in the Workers' Party are to preserve the child's privacy as a universal system. It's hard to say if today – and then I include all the parties – we would have chosen to introduce child welfare in the form it is today, if we were to spend these tens of billions on measures to support families with children. The Ellingsetter Committee was set up to look at how the welfare state deals with families with children, how the various financial arrangements are made, and what should be changed, if necessary, in order to make better use of them. We in the Labour Party do not think it is appropriate to look at child welfare and possible changes to it alone, detached from the other schemes. But we await and see and welcome the follow-up to the Ellingsetter Committee, and we hope that the government will come up with a matter on this soon. So we're to keep the child's fear in today's form, not to test it or turn it into arrangements. Then I'm very happy that there's been unanimity -- finally -- about looking at keeping child welfare out when social assistance is calculated. It's completely unreasonable that those who have the least, i.e. those who have social assistance as their main income for a period, do not actually receive child welfare. Because when child welfare is regarded as income before social assistance can be applied for, it is actually that those who are economically the weakest families in society do not actually receive child welfare. In practice, then, children of social welfare recipients have to feed their parents for child welfare before their parents receive money for housing in the form of social assistance. Child security should be for everyone, and it is completely unreasonable that the poor do not get. But this is the case when this practice exists. We therefore look forward to the government following up this matter in a good way, and that we might be able to overcome a practice that is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1194	A good society is a society that provides opportunities for everyone. The government therefore prioritises efforts to combat child poverty and early school interventions. Economic differences have increased moderately in Norway in the last 40 years. Nevertheless, Norway remains among the world’s least diverse countries. We'll all keep that. Most children in Norway grow up in families with good finances, but about 100,000 children grow up in families with persistent low incomes. 53 pst. These are the children of immigrants to Norway. In the middle of the gloom, we should be able to rejoice that these are most likely to have increased their quality of life by moving here, and that the ability to raise them further through assistance is great. Let it be clear that there are too many children growing up in poverty in Norway, and for the Right, it will always be a goal to reduce both the proportion and the number of children experiencing such childhood. It is important to prevent poverty from being inherited and to improve the quality of life of children here and now. What matters to those who have the least is that they have access to good, accurate and reasonable welfare services. The government, together with the Christian People's Party, has committed itself to targeted measures against child poverty. We have put in place more reasonable childcare facilities for low-income families and a free core-time scheme in kindergartens for children over three years of age, also in low-income families. 50000 children came under these schemes in 2016. In addition, we have launched a trial project with a free school leave scheme and have ensured that young people in low-income families receive more in school scholarships. In 2015, the government presented a strategy against child poverty with 64 different measures to help all children have equal opportunities for participation and development. For SV, the incentive measure may seem to be the use of child protection. SV added 1.8 billion. kr in its alternative state budget. This large addition amounts to 90 kroner per month per child. I don't think that makes the big difference for the families concerned. The majority of the Committee will await the examination of individual schemes until a comprehensive review of NOU 2017:6 Public support for families with children. In doing so, we ensure that support for families with children is treated collectively and not piecefully and divided. I am pleased that an overall committee ended up asking the government to determine whether child protection should be kept out of the calculation of social assistance. There are many counter-conceptions an investigation should look at. The overall concern is that such a change in the law weakens the room for action in local politics, while the other major concern is the loss of sight of the individual treatment everyone is entitled to. It may seem strange that one type of income should be excluded in the calculation. Furthermore, the definition of ‘responsible living’ could naturally differ between different families and different municipalities. We also know that there are great variations in the local authorities' own guidance rates for children's living. What's interesting is to see what the families are left with when all the fixed bills are paid. Then it is not certain that you get better out of it in a municipality that keeps child welfare out of it when they calculate social assistance, compared to other municipalities. On the contrary, the result may be that the municipalities then adjust their indicative rates accordingly. The questions are therefore many, and I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that an overall committee is landing on a decision asking for an inquiry into whether child protection should be excluded from the calculation of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1217	Norway is a good society, based on equality. In modern times, there have been slight differences between people and a high level of trust. Social, economic and geographical cohesion has underpinned our social development, a policy of distribution and cohesion that I, as a centre party, actively work for to continue. Child Security is a universal system, as the Center Party in that image wants to go on. Child protection was introduced in 1946 and was the first universal system of Norwegian social policy — a good example of the social community that emerged during World War II across class boundaries. Unfortunately, today we have a different situation, because now the families of children are at the crossfire of the Norwegian distribution and value struggle. Today, Norway is in a negative trend, because as a society, we are no longer making sure that there are ever fewer differences between people and the opportunities they have. Now we've got almost 100,000 children growing up in poverty in Norway – 100,000. A society where family poverty is increasing is not one of the richest countries in the world should be familiar with. An action that we know contributes to the cohesion between families with children and other families that we need now is child-responsive. But the Storting has for many years left off strengthening the child's fear, unfortunately. I believe that we cannot accept a social development and a policy in which cohesion stops. That's why what we're doing with child welfare now is important. It has to be increased, and it has to remain universal. But the government platform says that the government will take a closer look at the device and the scope of the various schemes of the families with children. In this, there may be an opening for need-tested child welfare, for which we know that the Left has been a champion. I just want to say from the pulpit here that in that case the centre party strongly disagrees with such a device, and will warn against this right now. Because we must not forget our story. The Norwegian welfare state is built on the principle of universalism, which means that people have their rights because they are citizens of this country, not because they work in a particular profession or industry. In a welfare state like ours, some arrangements are universal. Child welfare is one of these, and it has to be maintained. It should also be said that Nav’s early advice on the introduction of proven child-rescue, as such differentiation will also become far too bureaucratic and inefficient to operate. Let there be no doubt that the Centre Party wants to adjust the price of the child's pension. We want to increase rates and believe that this will offset the differences in the cost of living between families with children and others in society, as well as the importance of tackling child poverty. The central party therefore agrees with the intention of the SV proposal, proposal No. 1, but we believe that in order to adjust prices, we have to start from today's level, and then we have to look forward and not all the way back to 1996. Child welfare has not been price adjusted for more than 20 years. An adjustment based on the 1996 level would cost enormous amounts of money. Only in 2018 would it cost over 8 billion. kr if the child benefit was adjusted for the period 1996–2018. On the basis of this, the Centre Party cannot support SV’s proposal to adjust prices from the 1996 level, but recalls that we have also been committed to increasing the rate of child benefit in the past – we refer to the Centre’s alternative budget for 2018, where we proposed increasing child welfare by 117 million. kr. Finally, the centre party will of course boast that the proposal to exclude child-restraint from the calculation of economic social assistance, which the whole committee is now behind, is being promoted today. It is not fair for the distribution policy effect to be excluded from families dependent on social assistance. It's not fair and it's not right politics if you want to bring down child poverty. So I'm glad of that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1234	Differences in power and wealth are increasing. The 10 pst. The wealthiest part of the population now owns more than half of all wealth in the country. At the same time, most people are falling backwards. We've got an economy that works for the few, not for the many. Greater social differences between people weaken the glue in society, destroying some of the best with Norway, namely the trust we have between people. One of the worst expressions of the growing economic differences in Norway is the record high child poverty. Recently, over 100,000 children in Norway grow up in poor families — 100,000 children — many of whom remain in the schoolyard when the rest of the class goes on school trips. This is about the distribution of power and wealth in society, whether the big money is going to go to them among us with already big wallets, or whether the big money is going to go to the little ones among us. If we are to succeed in including these children in society and giving them as good opportunities as everyone else, we must strengthen the universal welfare systems. The families of children need a lift for the wallet. The government-appointed distribution committee decided that increasing the level of child protection for all would be the most effective short-term measure to combat child poverty. Child protection has not increased since 1996, which means that it is a third less valuable today. Therefore, SV proposes a five-year escalation plan to bring it back to 1996 levels. It will only ensure that about 20,000 children are raised out of poverty. Child protection shall help to cover the costs of having a child, so that all children receive a safe and well-growth, regardless of their parents’ wallets. The fight against poverty must be about distribution and universal arrangements for all. The alternative is need testing and poor-boxing, which can stigmatise those who use the schemes and act as poverty traps, schemes you lose if you get a job. Increasing child welfare universally will have a major redistributive effect because it represents a much greater share of the income of those with the lowest income. Child welfare is like a tax credit for having a child, which also goes to those who have too low income to receive other tax credits. It is an important feature of the Norwegian welfare model that universal schemes are provided to all, regardless of income, and a progressive tax system at the top of it. It's a model that's worked. No one asks whether school and health care should be universal and free of charge for all, even if those who really can afford private school and private health insurance also receive these schemes. Therefore, SV proposes to increase the level of child protection for all. In addition, we propose targeted additions to the child benefit for single-parents and for families with three or more children, because we know that those groups are overrepresented among the poor families with children. The sum will be a significant economic boost for families with children and an important step in the fight against child poverty. Unfortunately, the majority in this Chamber today chooses to vote against a measure that could help 20,000 children out of poverty, while increasing child poverty year by year. This shows that the policy pursued in this country is for the few, not for the many. Luckily, however, SV has achieved a first step forward in the fight for a more equitable and poverty-reducing child welfare. 364 municipalities are punishing today the poorest families of children by withdrawing the child’s rights to the families receiving social assistance. 46 000 children in some of the most vulnerable families are even less likely to leave because municipalities count child welfare as income when measuring social assistance. Now we get a majority to ask the government to investigate changes in laws that can stop this financial punishment, and come back with a case to the Stortinget about it. SV shall fight all the way to the goal of providing the 46 000 children with a safe and healthy upbringing, regardless of their parents’ wallets. We do that because we stand for a policy for the many, not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1253	The President assumes that the representative will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1258	I will, I take up the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1263	The representative Freddy André Oberstegård has then drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1269	Child poverty is one of the most important challenges we together need to address in the future – and a key priority for the Left. That's why I'm glad the government has the fight against poverty so high on the agenda. I am proud that we have put this clearly on the agenda in a government statement – as an important project for the government. As a representative of Oslo, I am very aware of the impact that poverty can have on children's lives. And we see a lot of examples of that. Only in my own town, Old Oslo, do we have the highest proportion of children living in families with persistent low incomes, i.e. in child poverty. There is no easy solution to combat child poverty, it is simply a complex problem. That is why I am also pleased that the new government has made sure to describe the fight against child poverty with just different solutions. It's both about ensuring that people get to work and can create a good life for themselves, and about combating all the negative effects poverty has on children's lives. It can also be done by other means. Simply put, many different instruments can be used. It's all about the seventh and last thing that we have to give children all the prerequisites for creating a good life and having all the opportunities that go on in life. Universal child welfare has been an important way of helping families with children since World War II. Even if it's for everyone, it probably means the most to poor families. In the Left, we are pleased that a unanimous committee is in favour of determining whether child protection should be excluded from the calculation of social assistance. The left went to the choice of a national minimum standard for social assistance recipients and the addition of child protection to social assistance. Now we've come an important step on the way there. Keeping child welfare out of the way to calculate the right families for social assistance will be particularly important for those with poor advice and smoothing out. I am concerned that we should have a good investigation process for this, to ensure that we do not have any unintended consequences if we were to consider accepting such a proposal. I would also like to refer to the study on support for families with children, who have been at the hearing. I look forward to dealing with this precisely in Stortingen, so that we can see the child's health in the context of other benefits. It is important that we get a good knowledge base so that we can make the right decisions when we are about to intensify the targeted work against child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1282	So in one of the richest countries in the world, almost 100,000 children live in permanent poverty, and we can't sit still and watch it. Not being able to go on vacation, taking part in activities, not even being able to say yes to a birthday invitation creates a kind of outsidership that has very big consequences for those affected by this. I am pleased with the measures that the Christian People's Party has been given, measures that are just about to try to prevent alienation, such as. Holidays for everyone, for whom we have increased appropriations in budgets almost every year. But we know at the same time that this is not enough. It's not this that ultimately makes you get out of the trap of poverty. I agree with Mr Trettebergstuen that work is important, but at the same time we must ensure that we have a labour market that has bigger and more open arms than what we see today. We have discussed how difficult it is for some people in this room in the past – the immigrant women, among others. – entering the labour market, including: because of language problems. We also know that part of the labour market is designed so that if you get an application from someone who has a slightly different name, you may not even be called for an interview. I agree that work is important, but then the labour market must have more open arms. As far as child welfare is concerned, it is very important, not least for those who have the worst income. The Christian People's Party is a champion that child-responsiveness remains universal. It is in this way that we preserve the legitimacy of the child's fear. But at the same time, we've been fighting for a long time to increase child welfare, and I just want to refer to our alternative budget for 2018, where we increased child welfare by 300 million. kr. The Christian People's Party has the will to do something about this arrangement, because we know it's so important, not least for those with the worst advice. I am very pleased that an overall committee is now asking the government to come back again in an appropriate way with a case asking for child welfare to be kept out when social assistance is calculated. It's a good move. This alone is not enough to lift people out of poverty; we need to look at more effective measures, but this is at least one measure that will help them with the worst advice. I think that is one thing that politicians should be measured on, and that is what we did for those sitting at the bottom of the table. This is a matter that just shows whether we have a will or not. We're probably going to get more of these things to deal with in the Storting, and I hope we can have this in mind: what are we really wanting to be measured on as politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1295	It is incomprehensible that government parties will not give rise to child welfare when the number of children growing up in poverty in Norway has increased to almost 10pst. At the same time, the child's fear has been dramatically cut. In 1990, a three - child mother received over 90,000 DKK per year in child care. In 2015, the sum was reduced to scarcely NOK 35000. Figures from the SSB for 2016 show a significant real decline in household income and that the decrease was greatest for families with children, especially for lone dependants. Unchanged child-responsiveness has some of the blame for this. It also points out the SSB. To ensure that no children live in poverty must be the main task, and that is why it is irresponsible, we believe that there has been no increase in child welfare since 1996 and that the systems of single dependants are still being weakened. In Norway, differences between people have increased completely since the 1980s, but in recent years differences have been increasing. From 2013 to 2015, the differences have increased by nearly 9 pst., according to figures from the Technical Calculations Committee. We have enough of the numbers and statistics that tell us that the differences are increasing, and what that means for our society. But the numbers can never reflect the bad feelings that follow when the differences get bigger -- the lump in your stomach because you can't afford to send your child on a class trip, the hopelessness of not getting into the housing market, or like a 15-year-old girl answered when Redd Kids asked what it was like to grow up in poor families: you can't be a part of funny things and you're often depressed. It can go beyond school and behavior. Another said, we don't have enough food for the family. The stories are many, in fact they apply to every ten children in Norway. In the same report another child replied: It's not easy for parents, they think a lot about the kids not getting what they need. We as elected representatives have to work for all children to get what they need. It's high time to take the big one back. Red wants the child benefit to be doubled and then indexed, and that child welfare and child support are not deducted in the calculation of social assistance. Children who grow up in low-status families have poorer chances of life in almost all areas of life. The NOVA report on social differences in the lives of young people shows that young people with different backgrounds already in their teens have different expectations of what they can achieve in life, perceptions of education, of future happiness, of owning housing and of unemployment. It is seen that optimism is greater the higher the socio-economic status of the family. In 30 years, the richest percentage in Norway has doubled its share of income, while the proportion of children in poverty is increasing. For a long time, a majority of two out of three Nordics have thought that reducing economic differences is a major task for politicians. If this is to happen, an active redistribution policy must be pursued by the Storting. An action that will be of great importance in this way is precisely the proposal to increase child protection. That's why Red is in favour of it and hopes that a majority on the Biggest sees the need for such an increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1312	Too many children are affected by poverty and exclusion. It affects their ability to create their own good life. Poverty affects health, education and social networks. The fact that parents are at work is the most important factor in preventing children from growing up in poverty. A well-functioning labour market is therefore essential in this context. I think it's natural to see child welfare in connection with other transfers to the families with children. We have already taken several measures. Several families are now getting help, more low-income families are getting cheaper kindergartens, more children are getting free core time in kindergarten. There are measures to help parents get into income-generating work, which is the most appropriate measure to get out of permanent poverty. We have also made sure that young people in low-income families get more in school scholarships, and have started a trial project with free part-time space in SFO in the municipalities of Drammen, Oslo, Stavanger and Trondheim. Furthermore, the government, non-governmental organisations and KS signed the so-called Leisure Declaration in 2016. This is the goal of good and long-term cooperation, so that all children, regardless of their parents' finances, can have the opportunity to participate regularly in at least one organised leisure activity together with others during the week. National anti-poverty grant scheme has also been reinforced, to 270 million. kr in 2018. This scheme is important because it contributes to the participation of children from socially and economically disadvantaged families in holiday and leisure activities. We know how important it is for children and young people to participate with friends, be part of the social communities and have equal opportunities with other children, regardless of what their parents serve. I would also like to point to the Jeløya Platform's objective of targeted action against poverty. The government will put in place reduced parental and free half-day facilities in the SFO, similar schemes in kindergarten for low-income children. We also want to offer free kindergarten to all children in integration receptions and strengthen housing support for families with children. We will work to ensure that all children and young people continue to participate in leisure and cultural activities, and support the work of volunteer centres, among others. educational assistance and support and inclusion measures for vulnerable children and young people. We will also follow the government's strategy against child poverty, which aims to prevent the transfer of poverty between generations and to increase the quality of life and participation of children here and now. We are in the process of assessing the alignment and scope of the different transfer arrangements for families with children, with the aim of ensuring good distribution and targeting of families with children with persistently low incomes. The Children's Family Committee, to which many have referred from this pulpit, carried out an overall review of the support to the families of children. The investigation has been at the hearing, and we are now going through the hearings. To what has been said about keeping child welfare out of the calculation of social assistance, I just want to remind you that municipalities treat child welfare differently when calculating social benefits to families with children within their local space of action. If municipalities are to be required to keep the child benefit out of the measure of the benefit, the law will also need to regulate it. This would be a breach of the principle of sound living based on an individual assessment, since it would then be disregarded for a particular type of income. But we will go through this more carefully and come back to Stortinget with it, as Stortinget asks in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1336	Today we received new figures that show that the number of childbirths is falling dramatically in Norway. I don't think there's a single answer to that, nor is there a single solution. The security of the economy, the security of work, is important, but it is also important to know that when you have children, the state makes use of rusty welfare systems that make it possible. The Council of State was concerned that a sample had passed through the overall welfare systems that hit families with children. A thorough and good work has been done through a NOU. The Council of State said that she is now going through the hearing replies. How does the Council of State view the follow-up to the sample work to the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1343	I agree with the representative of Trettebergstuen that it is important that we facilitate the birth of many children in this country. That's why we're lucky in Norway that has rust arrangements, and we spend about 80 billion. kr for support schemes for families with children. That's also true, and I agree that the work done by the Ellingsetter Committee is thorough, that's good, and it gives us a starting point for looking at the family support schemes in a context. That's also what the government of the Jeløya platform says that we want to do. Now I am looking at the hearing opinions – both what form and what I think should be given priority and go further when it comes to support schemes for families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1348	I hope that the Council of State agrees with me that when we are just going through all the various small and large welfare systems that are intended to facilitate the everyday life of the families with children, it is an advantage that we see things together, that we do not see the child's fear in isolation, but look it up against other things – for example. are we going to do something about ‘Holy school day’, we going to introduce the maximum price in the SFO, would it be an idea to abolish the cash support? How to build up under and facilitate the everyday life of families with children, you only know if you get a complete discussion about all these arrangements set up against each other. It would be an advantage if the Storting could get the NOU, according to the government's estimates, up to treatment as a wholesale message. I think that would be an exciting message to be served, which could create good discussions about how the shoe prints for today's families, and what politicians need to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1353	I think it's a good input that the representative Trettebergstien will make. I also see clearly the need to see it in a context, linked not only to what is under the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs but also to the overall growth of children and young people. As I said, I'm starting to look at the arrangements that affect my department. There are important arrangements for the families we're talking about. It is also important that there is a context in what we do from birth onwards with parental leave, kindergarten, school and SFO, child welfare — and for example. making it easier for students to have children by supporting them financially. So it's clearly important that we see it in one whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1358	As the differences in power and wealth increase, more and more children are growing up in poor families under this government. The Government-appointed Distribution Committee decided that increasing child protection would be the most effective measure in the short term to combat growing child poverty. Estimates from the Statistical Centre show that price adjustment of children’s rights back to 1996 levels, as proposed today by SV, could help some 20,000 children out of poverty. Nevertheless, the government parties choose to vote against in the Chamber today. Can the Council of State indicate another measure they have taken, which, with equal certainty, can help as many as 20,000 children out of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1363	Much of the starting point for the government to want a comprehensive review is precisely to look at which support schemes will help families with children, not least those with persistently low incomes. As other representatives in this room have been involved, it's important to see things in a whole. Viewing child welfare in isolation as the only system that will help lift more families of children out of poverty is becoming too slim, especially when a sample, the Ellingsetter Committee, has now done such a thorough and good work in the form of this NOU. It also provides the basis for us wanting to see all of these schemes in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1369	A short time ago, the government's efforts at poverty were evaluated by, among other things, Downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, downstairs, UNICEF responded to that evaluation and called it embarrassing. I wonder if the Council of State is satisfied with the efforts made so far by the government to combat the growing child poverty, when it has increased from 84 000 children in 2013 to 101 300 children today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1374	I am pleased that the evaluation of the strategy and the report that Bufdir referred to points to some very positive developments, namely that we are now getting more agencies to work together. It was the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration that for the first time presented a transversal strategy against child poverty. You haven't done that before. And if we are to solve the poverty challenges, which are so complex, it is absolutely vital that the departments, the agencies and the various actors work across. It was drawn out as it was very positive with the strategy, and that it was therefore good that we got it in place. But I'm not satisfied, like SV. When they were in government, they were very disappointed that poverty was increasing, especially when it was called to abolish child poverty, and they saw that it was not as simple as they thought it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1379	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1397	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1408	There are important changes we are going to discuss here today, changes that can actually make a big difference between the legal security and the legal protection of the children concerned. But first of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation and good practice. This is, as I said at the outset, an important matter, and fortunately there is one thing in which all the parties in this Chamber agree with the intention of the proposal. The issue is important precisely because it is about strengthening children's legal protection against violence and abuse. That children are subjected to violence and abuse by those who are their caregivers is simply unacceptable. All children have the right to a safe and healthy upbringing. When parents or other caregivers are judged for such actions, it is the duty of society to secure the child. Whereas the Committee is divided into a majority and a minority in the view of some of the assessments, but fortunately, the Committee is united behind most of the amendments to the law; Today, therefore, we will adopt changes to both the child law and the criminal law, which will provide children with better legal protection. The main change is that it is now an obligation to assess the prohibition of contact by parents who have been convicted of violence or abuse. This means that children should be able to avoid meeting their attacker again, and, if this happens, of course, it should be done within safe limits, which the child does not experience as unsafe or as a means of re-attacking. For the majority of the Committee, it has been important to focus on the most important of these. It is not to be concealed that if the changes to the law function as intended, it may be appropriate as a judge to consider the limits of what should be serious enough to make it subject to such a contact ban. The opposition mentions some examples of what they believe should also lead to the imposition of contact bans. The majority, however, believe that it is too early to introduce this now, but that it is possible to get back to it in a later case. I would also like to highlight the importance of a new provision in the Children's Act that, when contact or visitation bans have been imposed, association is not to be implemented/agreed. Another important provision is the amendment of the Children's Act which clarifies that a parent can bring a case of parental responsibility without mediation when a parent is convicted of serious violence or abuse against his own children. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have made good and, not least, constructive contributions to the process. When the matter was being heard by the government, there were many hearing replies, and while the case has been being dealt with here in Stortinget, there have also been several enquiries about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1427	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good review of the case and also for a good cooperation on this bill. This is an important area, and the Workers' Party believes it is important that children, wherever they are, and where they belong, be protected from being subjected to violence and abuse. Therefore, the work against children being subjected to violence and abuse is about more than legal paragraphs. But law paragraphs are important, and today we are going to deal with such a law. It is also important that what is adopted today is followed up with money. That's the second big priority. The Labour Party has been critical of the government’s economic priorities in several issues related to violence and abuse. In this year's budget, the Workers' Party allocated some 700 million. In addition to the government's draft budget for measures to prevent, detect and stop child abuse in many sectors. So our criticism of the government is not about goals, but about priorities of appropriations for the follow-up to the bill. It's about the police, the courts, child protection and community health services, to mention something. That is why the Labour Party voted against the proposal for a rapprochement plan against violence and abuse, not because it did not have good measures, because it did, but because it was too unclear in terms of responsibilities and finances. This was also an almost unison feedback from non-governmental organisations. During this consultation, there has been strong support for the government's proposal for amendments to the Children's Act, and these changes are also behind the Workers' Party. We believe that they are important in their efforts to prevent children and young people from being subjected to violence and abuse. What I want to point out, and to which we have some comments, are the recordings that the Change Factory made during the hearing. It was important that the children themselves speak directly to those who are to make decisions in the courts. I think it is very gratifying that the sour writer in Kristiansand has taken the initiative in a comprehensive process in which children's protection are listened to, and where the experiences of children's protection are brought before the courts. I think that is a good follow-up of, among other things. This is the law. It is important to ensure that the opinions of children and the dissemination of their own experiences are not used against them in any way during the second round. I expect that and have great confidence that both courts and departments will follow up. That's also another point where we have a little bit of different notes. It is on a point where some hearings, for example: The Directorate of Police, Kripos and the Stine Sofies Foundation, ask that one also consider that contact bans are assessed for legal provisions other than those proposed in this proposition. The Workers' Party has said in a note that we think is important input, and we expect the Ministry to follow it up at the appropriate meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1446	The legislative changes we are adopting today have as their overall objective the aim of contributing to better legal protection for children against violence and abuse. The most important thing we can do is just do everything we can to protect children from violence, from exploitation, from abuse. The proposals for legislative changes promoted by the government to the Stortinget help to improve the enforcement of their obligations to children by the authorities. The rapporteur has presented the legislative changes in a good way, and it is good that a unanimous committee supports the government's proposals and adopts them today. Children exposed to domestic violence are a societal challenge, a major societal challenge. According to Bufdir's websites, since the 1960s it has been a clear decline in less serious violence by the superiors. This is due, inter alia, to: together with increased knowledge of the major negative consequences of violence and the successful change in attitudes towards physical punishment in the context of child rearing. But – and this is important – there has not been a similar decline in serious violence against children. According to a prevalence study of violence and abuse against children and young people conducted among 18- to 19-year-olds, 21 pst. physical violence from at least one parent was experienced by young people in Norway during their childhood. For most, this is about what is characterized as less serious violence, which means that they have once or more experienced that their parents have lashed, clawed, pushed, shaken or beaten them with flat hands. Fortunately, as mentioned earlier, there is a decline in such cases. But let it be clear: all the use of violence against children is illegal and contributes to creating great uncertainty, uncertainty and difficulties for children who experience this in their family. Together, we have to make sure that these numbers are reduced much more in the years to come. Serious physical violence involves violence with a high potential for damage. What we're saying is that they've either been knocked up, kicked, knocked with fists or been physically attacked in other ways. It's hard to imagine what it's like to be a child in such a situation. According to a study on the extent of violence and abuse against children and young people carried out among 18- to 19-year-olds, 6 pst. by young people in Norway, they have experienced serious physical violence from at least one parent during their childhood. Both mother and father may be the perpetrators of serious physical violence. Unlike less serious physical violence, there has been no decline in this form of violence in recent years. As many boys as girls have been subjected to this type of violence. Several have received marks and pain the next day, and some have needed medical attention. According to a 2016 study, immigrant backgrounds from non-Western countries, poor family economy and drug problems in parents are giving rise to an increased risk of being exposed to this type of violence. It is estimated that 5–15 infants are seriously injured by so-called Shaken Baby Syndrome every year in Norway, and that about five of them die from such injuries. The figures are based on experience from the Norwegian health care system and international translations. These findings show that efforts and the fight against violence against children and young people must be carried out across departments and across departments. Negative social control, honour-related violence and violence against children must be combated, and efforts must be made in close cooperation between the justice, health and family fields. Then, the action plan against violence and abuse that the government presented in the autumn of 2016, which is economically prioritised and strengthened by the four cooperation parties, is important for preventing, detecting early and caring for children exposed to violence and abuse. The historically committed plan provides for a comprehensive and long-term effort to reduce the incidence of violence and abuse. When the majority of the population underlines that the proposed changes to the law we are adopting today will strengthen the children's right to a safe growth, it is positive. Parents are the most important caregivers for children and have a key role to play in ensuring the right of children to good growth. The changes in the laws we adopt today can help to improve the ability of parents to protect their own children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1469	When children are subjected to abuse, abuse, violence, exploitation and care failure, it is difficult, almost impossible, not to be affected by it. It is equally difficult every time to understand that children are exposed to horrific and cruel acts. That is why we must never stop working to develop a policy that takes care of the best interests of children. We need to ensure that our children are safe, stable and well-growthed. It's a social responsibility. It's our shared responsibility. In order to succeed, we need collective vigilance at all levels — the kindergarten sector, the health sector, the school community, the local community, volunteering, the neighbourhood, the police, child protection, yes, in total society — vigilance. Today we're going to make a change in the children's law here in the hall. It is an important document in clarifying how the big community should react if children suffer from injustice. But it is important to bear in mind in the discussion that legal instruments will not be sufficient to ensure better protection for children in the future, for: How to prevent children from being subjected to abuse and violence? After all, the law will only apply when or if a case reaches the courts and cases of violence and assault are detected. We need to work prevention – even more than now. There is often too much time before abuse and violence are discovered, and the help agencies will then have to go through with repairs. The community could save enormous resources to be able to lead were. That's what I and the Center Party believe will be a win both for the individual and for society as a whole. A fundamental principle in our policy is to prevent rather than repair. Both we and all the other parties need to be better at prioritizing resources for this. With regard to this proposition, which takes account of concrete changes in the Children's Act, there is a unanimous committee behind the vote. That means that the Storting is very much in agreement with us that we need to strengthen children's legal protection. That's good. Furthermore, it appears that the hearing bodies are broadly expressing support for the legislative proposal. It's reassuring. However, it should be mentioned that critical comments were made in the consultation round on, inter alia, the deadline for consultation – it was too short – that the legislative proposal was not thoroughly investigated and that the child’s right to participation is not adequately highlighted in the legislative proposal. I guess that's not as good. The latter will probably be a little divided opinions about. However, with regard to the criticism of short consultation deadlines and the fact that a bill is not sufficiently well established, the government is probably taking those signals. We in the Centre Party have had some comments on this matter, but otherwise we believe that the proposals in the Proposition point in the right direction. We consider this to be, among other things: as positive that the courts are given an autonomous obligation to assess the refusal of contact. It would, in our opinion, enhance legal certainty when today's right to assess the refusal of contact is converted into a duty in the violent and criminal proceedings specified in the proposition. Furthermore, the Centre Party supports the remaining changes that address the regulation of association by contact bans, exemptions from mediation, parental liability in the event of death and parental responsibility when parents abroad cannot be traced. Then we get to hope that in the future there will be a little less and less use for this new version of the Children's Act, preferably as a result of the fact that as a society, we are becoming more and more good at preventing crimes against children – because we might have succeeded in the work on this prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1486	As a society, Norway has come a long way in protecting children and young people from violence, sexual assault and bullying. We do not allow parents to harm their children, and we give collective expression of grief and dismay when we hear of children who are subjected to extensive violations and abuse. The vast majority of parents in Norway put the child in the centre. Despite this, violence and sexual abuse within or outside the family are still a part of many children's daily lives and upbringing. Many children and young people live with daily physical, mental and sexual abuse. This is a bit extra topical today, because a report from the Children's Ombudsman was presented in the morning today, where probably more people in this room were present, which shows that 30 pst. by all children have experienced violence in their own homes. One in five Norwegian women report having been sexually assaulted in childhood, and every year there are 1,500 children living in crisis centres in Norway. We're not on target. The theme is very taboo and associated with remorse, guilt and shame. Violence and assault cause pain and damage to children and, in some cases, damage that lasts for life. Violence and sexual abuse occur at home, at school, where children work, and where children live. These children are entitled to help and protection, but many of them are never seen, because adults cannot believe the worst. "I don't believe it until I see it," says Lillebjørn Nilsen. And that's what we usually think. We'd rather see it to believe it. When it comes to violence and sexual abuse against children, it's rarely seen that it happens. Violence against children is one of Norway’s most under-communicated social problems. Tens of thousands of children in Norway are exposed to violence, sexual assault and care failure during their childhood. Some of these children are growing up without adults being aware that the abuses are taking place, or are helping to protect and help their children. Others again experience that adults know what they are exposed to — without this leading to their getting help or the end of violence. Extensive research also shows how serious it can be to be subjected to violence, whether it is to experience violence against one of the parents, or even to be subjected to direct violence, sexual assault or bullying. This can lead to extensive cognitive, social, mental and physical problems both in the short and long term. Violence against children and young people is a public health challenge. The home and the family are the arena where children are to have it safe. At the same time, home is the place where violence against children takes place in the hidden and for a long time without it being discovered. Infants and young children are a particularly vulnerable group. Any form of violence, abuse and injury can have very unfortunate consequences for the child’s growth, development, health and quality of life. SV supports the bill which is being promoted here, but we do not think it goes far enough. In the consultation round, critical comments were made on both the process and the proposals themselves. For example, it is pointed out – as has also been said from the Chair – that the consultation period has been too short, that the legislative proposal has not been thoroughly investigated, and that the child’s right to participation has not been adequately clarified in the legislative proposal. This is unfortunate and something the government should notice the next time. Several hearing bodies, including: The Police Directorate, Kripos and the Stine Sofies Foundation, consider that the obligation of the court to assess whether a contact ban should be imposed must include more legal provisions than those proposed. I fully agree with that. For the sake of legal certainty of the child, I believe that such an assessment obligation should include several violent, sexual and privacy offences. Among other things, this will be important in matters relating to negative social control and honor-related violence. The majority and the government are thus encouraged to seize the possibility of further tightening up the legislative framework in the context of the examination of SV's proposal for a representative, Document 8:120 S, on measures against negative social control and honour-related violence. We have to make sure that we have zero tolerance for violence and sexual abuse against children in Norwegian society. It also implies an obligation to prevent, detect and help violent children. A strong and clear law is just one of several important instruments to protect children from violence and abuse. But the law alone is not enough. Here, there is a need for a power cap – with more offensive measures and not least effort over time – so far, unfortunately, I see that there is not enough priority in the work otherwise, and I hope that it will be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1515	I am pleased that we are going in today to give children – and especially the most vulnerable children – better legal protection. When we hear stories of violence, sexual abuse and care failure, it affects, for children who are subjected to violence and abuse, are among the weakest groups we have in our society. When everything around the child fails, it's important that we make sure that we have a law that takes these children seriously, and it's good that we now strengthen their rights and modernise the laws that are meant to do their best. We need to ensure that we have up-to-date laws that meet the challenges we see we have at all times, and with the changes in the law, we reaffirm once again that it is the best of children that must always weigh more heavily. We show that when we go in to give the court an obligation to assess the contact ban in the cases where children have been subjected to violence and abuse. If one parent is convicted of serious violence or abuse, one does not have to go through mediation if the other raises a case of parental responsibility. We need a law that puts children first, uncompromisingly – even in heavy times, when a parent dies, when a parent goes abroad and cannot be traced, or when it turns out that the child's closest caregiver is the one who takes away that security. That's exactly what we're doing now, we're strengthening the law for the benefit of the children. That is why I am pleased that a joint committee agrees on many of these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1522	For the Christian People's Party, the fight for a secure childhood has long been of the highest priority, which is apparent both through our political agendas, but also in relation to our budgetary priorities. Just a few weeks ago, we had a historic interpellation debate here in the hall, where the Christian People's Party called in a whole four state councils to discuss their joint efforts for a secure childhood: one of the councils is sitting in the hall. Through the alternative budget and budgetary negotiations of the Christian People's Party, the Christian People's Party has strengthened its efforts in the field, among others. through increased appropriations to the police and to Kripos, we have doubled the funds to the State Children's House, and we have secured funds for an attitude campaign against net crime. On the children's and family budget we got a big impact: 10 million. kr extra to Alternative to Violence, 20 mill. SEK to family protection, 12.5 million. NOK 25 million for the Church's family protection. extra kr to child protection. An important part of the work for a safe childhood is to strengthen children's legal protection against violence and abuse, so I am pleased that the government with this proposition makes proposals that have precisely children's legal protection against violence and abuse as their overall objective. In particular, I would like to highlight the change in the Children's Act that allows one of the parents to file a case of parental responsibility without the customary mediation in cases where the other parent is convicted of violence or abuse against his own children. The Christian People's Party will also consider the second proposal, which the Ministry chose not to follow up and which concerns the loss of parental rights associated with such judges. We understand the ministry's consideration of the objections of the hearing bodies, but will stress that the best interests of children are the most weighty consideration of the Christian People's Party. Therefore, we will monitor whether the amendment to the law on exemptions from mediation adequately addresses the situations in which a parent is convicted and presents a risk to his or her child, or whether it is necessary to reconsider the proposal on loss of parental responsibility. Then I will bring forward the proposed amendment to Section 319 which obliges the judge to consider a refusal of contact, even in cases where the parties to the case have not themselves made a claim to this effect. Although the Court already has the right to assess the imposition of a restraining order in violent and criminal matters, such a duty would make it clear to the Court of Justice its own responsibility to assess whether or not a child should be in contact with the parent who has been convicted. Both of these proposed legislative changes are about introducing another protective layer to prevent children from being more subjected to violence and abuse than they have already been when the case has reached the court. The legal protection of children against violence and abuse is one of many areas in which the fight for a secure childhood must be strengthened. This is a small step in the right direction, but the Christian People's Party will insist that these children have a clearer voice in the future here on the Stortinget, and we will be a vigil that reminds the government and departments that the measures for a safe childhood are among the most urgent political issues, for a lost childhood is not recovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1541	Children do not have sufficient legal protection against violence and abuse. Parents who experience their children being subjected to violence and abuse are in a difficult situation. The government has therefore put forward a proposal on changes in the child law and criminal law to prevent and prevent violence and abuse. But this is far from enough. Today I started the day with the Children’s Ombudsman, who produced two new reports. One report deals with discussions with experts. These experts are children and young people who have been subjected to violence and abuse, and who in this report tell us why it wasn't discovered, why they didn't get the right help, what it was that failed, and what help had made them move on. If we had received help before, if everything had been different, there's a child who says. That's exactly why we have to work on multiple fronts. We need to keep working on the law and make sure that we have a good law, but just as important is the job we do to strengthen the relief service – such as enabling the police to detect and defeat the violence and abuses that are taking place. It's about putting in resources to prevent this violence and these abuses. It's about setting up the school system, child protection, health care, and all those in contact with children to detect the violence and abuse, and to act and see to it that the children get help. In this case, the government proposes an obligation to the courts to assess the restraining order against children in such cases. This may lead to a ban on contacts being assessed and imposed in several cases on which there is a basis. The reason why we're doing this is because we think children need better protection than they do today. We want to make it clear in the law that there should be no association when a restraining order or a restraining order has been issued to protect the child, and we propose a change in the child law so that one parent can sue for parental responsibility and free association without mediation when the other parent is convicted of serious violence or abuse against his own children. These changes are very much appreciated by the government that the Storting is behind. We believe that this will strengthen the legal protection and legal certainty of children, and that there is an important step on the way to helping children and young people face violence and abuse. It was also sent to the hearing a proposal that, following notification from the police that a parent has been convicted of serious violence or abuse against his own children, the Court should initiate and decide on the loss of parental responsibility and rights of association. These were many hearings which had strong objections when the proposal was being consulted. That is why I do not think it is right to promote that proposal for the Stortinget now. That proposal must be followed up further, therefore it was not proposed in the proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1562	I was a little inspired to hear the Minister take note of the reports she was presented to the Children's Ombudsman today. As the minister is concerned about prevention, and as I was also very concerned about my post, there are many who have to stand together. The Minister has certainly not been able to read it all, but it is a strong wish of the Children’s Ombudsman that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, together with the Ministry of Knowledge and Integration and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, should take responsibility for launching a pilot project with a number of schools, where the school is the venue for close and committed cooperation with other services in the prevention, detection and follow-up of children and young people who are victims of violence and sexual assault. Now the minister has just heard what I read. Is there anything the Minister thinks she can take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1569	As the coordinating minister for this field and for the notified strengthening and cooperation across both the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Health, I am absolutely convinced that we need to strengthen prevention, and that is what we need to do across all sectors. I am very concerned that we should impart to the children knowledge of their rights, what is lawful and not allowed. It emerges from the report that more children do not view the violence they are subjected to as abnormal. You have to realize that when someone violates them, it's a crime. It's not allowed in Norway. They must have someone to say from to. We need to strengthen sexual education in school, which is also about children becoming safe on border crossings. I think it's a long way to go, so I'm glad that it's mentioned in the Jeløya statement. That's something we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1574	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1592	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1601	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a very good and thorough cooperation in this matter. A more consistent and timely child protection law has been needed. The proposals contained in the bill are mainly a follow-up to the investigation by the Committee on the Protection of the Children’s Rights, NOU 2016: 16. Some of the proposals are a follow-up to the Ministry’s consultation note on the obligation to provide information on the protection of children and the consultation note on the responsibility of the municipality for children abroad and compensation for, inter alia, children. private parties’ witnesses in the counties. The work is done in two stages. The changes in the laws currently being dealt with by the Storting follow up on some of the selection proposals, so that these changes can take effect as early as possible. The Committee builds on Norway's international obligations, including: The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, to ensure that all children in Norway are protected and cared for, and that the best interests of children are a heavy consideration in all matters relating to children. This proposition proposes to include ‘love’ in the purpose provision of the law. This has been an important theme for many children in child protection. The members of the Committee are concerned not only with the important symbolic effect of this, but also with providing the concept of love content, which may be difficult to measure but which is nevertheless important. It's about meeting children with warmth in their eyes, words and body language. The proposal proposes to make the Child Protection Act a law on rights. It supports the entire committee. The members of the Committee also ask the Government — to some extent different — to consider a child-friendly appeal mechanism to make such a right law stronger. The question of the right to follow-up protection has also been raised by several hearing bodies in the context of the examination of the proposal, and the entire committee notes that this is to be assessed in the ministry. The proposal proposes a new overall provision for the right of participation of children, supported by the entire Committee. The Committee notes that the corresponding amendment has not been proposed in the case of § 6-3, a special provision on the procedural rights of children in legal and administrative decisions. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the Council of State will consider an amendment to this provision in the context of the proposal for new child protection law, and we support it. It is proposed that the responsibility of child protection to cooperate with parents and children be clarified. This supports the Committee and goes on to refer to hearing bodies which note that the cooperation of child protection with the children must come first, then the parents, and that this should be clarified in a regulation. It is also proposed to clarify the use of relatives and networks in foster home placement. It supports the Committee and stresses that hearing bodies note that this must be done if the child so wishes and in cooperation with the child. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Child Protection Act should provide clearer guidance for the follow-up of children and parents following a decision on child protection. This is important. The Committee supports this and refers to the opinions of hearing bodies which would stress that this should not mean a turn towards increased return as an objective in itself. The Committee notes and supports amendments to provisions aimed at clarifying the requirements for documentation in general and in particular for the involvement of children. Furthermore, the Committee refers to the consultation on § 6-3a that it should be established that the assessments of the best interests of children are based on the child’s thoughts and views, that this should form the basis for the decisions taken and that it should be documented. Then we're going to make it clear in the proposition that the municipalities have payment responsibility for expenses in the county, which is generally supported in the committee. However, after a meeting between the Committee and the rapporteurs in Karasjok and Kautokeino, where the majority of the population speaks in common, we note that there will be considerable additional expenditure on interpreting services. To this end, the entire Committee proposes that the government should consider whether it should continue to be the responsibility of the municipalities to cover expenditure on interpreters and experts appointed by the counties and return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner. Furthermore, it is proposed that the provisions on child protection disclosure should be made simpler and clearer. The Committee notes that consultation bodies asking questions as to whether the use of the word ‘serious’ in ‘serious care failure’ in paragraphs 6 to 4(a) can contribute to the opposite by raising the notification threshold and creating uncertainty if something is serious enough. Furthermore, we refer to hearing bodies which stress that the obligation to provide information must also be dealt with in cooperation with the children, and we point to the fact that hearing bodies and the legislative committee do not advise on the use of the term ‘behaviour’ in the Child Protection Act, as this reflects an outdated view of children. We notice that the term has been removed in most places, and supports it, but not in new § 6-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1633	Does the representative wish to take up the suggestions in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1638	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1643	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1648	The amendments to this law are aimed at strengthening the legal certainty of those who are assisted in child protection, and at ensuring better that all children have their own voice and that they have a flock in which they belong. That's good. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's detailed statement, and I would like to raise just a few points relating to the Workers' Party's opinion on the matter. It is a user perspective, knowledge and economy. The working party is satisfied that the user perspective has been strengthened. Most hearing bodies were clear in their message about this. The change factory was among the most obvious, but also the Children’s Ombudsman, UNICEF and employees’ organisations pointed out the importance of this. The working party believes it is necessary to build good relations with parents and networks throughout the period of assistance from child protection. Children are independent persons, and they belong in a flock — family, foster family, friends, class, neighbors and others. They belong somewhere. Even though the place they belong to most, their own family, fails, they have ties and relationships to deal with. This law better facilitates this. The Labour Party has pointed to the transition from children to adults and the need for networking and good transitions for the children to become an independent adult, i.e. aftercare. Children and young people themselves have contributed to putting love on the agenda in this matter. Admitting it is not simply formal and legal, but human beings are legitimate and necessary. We also believe it should be considered to have a low-threshold complaint mechanism for children – it will be a natural follow-up to the legal text. Knowledge is about knowing that the best prevention is taking place elsewhere than in child protection — kindergarten, school health service, community school, that parents have work, and that they do not have to worry about how to get help for their illnesses and for living if they become unemployed or sick. That's good prevention. Today, too many children, too many families and too many cooperating agencies experience a failure in their interaction between them. Knowledge and cooperation also require formal knowledge of the organisation, legislation, regulations and knowledge of existing measures in the municipality. There is a need for more competence, but we should not underestimate the fact that there is a great deal of competence in child protection already. This competence is developed through practice. Experience from children and parents that helps you to know when to deviate from procedures, procedures and rules for this particular child or family may be the most important knowledge the service can have. I have met many employees with a burning heart and a wise brain that uniquely reaches children and parents in the most difficult cases, and I have met many children who have met such employees. But there are children and families who do not meet such child protection. The working party has therefore been concerned that, among other things. shall have competence in relation to different ethnic cultures available in the field of child protection. It also applies to Sami culture, which should really be unnecessary to point out, but it is important that it is fixed. It is positive that the entire Committee endorses comments on the availability of ethnic culture in the field of child protection. There are too many people who do not have ethnic Norwegian professional experience and who experience greater challenges in meeting child protection than Norwegian children and families. So a little bit about economics. In all my posts today, I've been talking about economics, because priorities are not just about laws, they're also about following up on economic priorities. And as the hall here is well known, the Workers' Party has had critical objections to how it's being followed up in terms of economics. For example, it's not just about knowledge, it's about time, and it's about basic personnel. What the kids are asking for is to be listened to, that someone takes the time. The KS has expressed concern for the economy, and the Workers' Party supports this concern. It'll be a government problem to show that they're wrong. With regard to the explanation of vote, I address our proposal. Then I just want to say that we do not disagree with some of the proposals that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left are behind in the matter of changing wording in some paragraphs, but we have chosen not to support them because we believe that we do not have a good enough legal basis to assess the consequences of the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1673	The representative Kari Henriksen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1678	One of the first books I read myself was Gabriel Scott's «The Vergeless». Scott's descriptions of the cruel fate of the oppressed orphanage children made an enormous impression on me. Fortunately, a lot has changed since the states in the early 1900s described in that book. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Constitution and the Child Protection Act guarantee the rights of children to care and protection. Today, we are adopting new important changes to the Child Protection Act. Thank you to the rapporteur and to the Committee on the Clean and Good Work. 54 620 children received help from child protection in 2016. Child protection has one of the most important tasks of society. Therefore, it is also so important that we always look for improvement potential in the service. Even the most skilled professional needs skills, needs to be part of a strong professional environment with professional continuity and must be given the opportunity for professional development. We have a great deal of respect for those who work in child protection. We also have great respect for the families who are struggling, those who need help, and those who experience being torn apart. There are many parties to a child protection case, but the main person is the child. The task of society is to see each child as an individual with his or her own rights and opportunities. With the right in government, municipal child protection has been significantly strengthened – with money and more jobs. By the end of 2016, there were 932 more municipal child protection posts than in 2013. There are several employees who have time to talk to children, to secure children and to help families. In addition, we know that the local economy has been significantly strengthened and given room for action on good priorities in municipalities, and that many have given priority to child protection. Last year, the Stortinget adopted an important child protection reform aimed at providing better assistance where children live. More children and families shall receive timely and appropriate assistance. We need to strengthen local authorities' ability to prevent and take early action, and municipalities need to be given increased responsibilities and greater freedom to choose what measures they think are best for their children. Child protection often encounters children and families in crisis. In order for children, parents and society to have confidence in decisions and actions taken and for employees to enjoy a very demanding job, it is important that their skills and expertise are sound. Therefore, the government is now improving basic training and strengthening the offer of master’s training so that more people can start working with the necessary professional qualifications. Competence requirements and authorisation shall be introduced in the municipal child protection services. The lifting of competence shall take place throughout the country. The new government shows strong ambitions for the child protection of the Jeløya platform. Cooperation between child protection and the health sector is improved. It shall help children in the protection of their children who struggle with the possibility of suffering from chronic mental distress. The government has announced that it will promote a new and revised Children’s Protection Act for the Storting in this period, but we are already adopting important changes that could be implemented quickly and before the major revision. It is gratifying that the majority of the Committee supports the changes proposed by the Government. Child and parental legal certainty are important. We are now amending the laws by improving the process of child protection services and strengthening the legal perspective on children. We legislate children's right to the necessary child protection measures and the right to participation. We also need to make sure that people who are concerned about a child report to the Child Welfare Service. That is why we are now clarifying the rules on disclosure. However, the main job is done in municipalities — in the important meetings between the small people in need of help and the adults in need of help. Then it is important for me and many others that the word ‘love’ is included in the purpose of the Child Protection Act. I have met Annika, Fredrik and many of the young people who have a lot of experience in being a child in Norwegian Child Protection. There are child protection professionals in the Change Factory, and they have called for a child protection that works more and more clearly with love. By love they mean primarily human warmth, through warm eyes, warm body language, warm words – and that adults listen to try to understand them to the bottom. Perhaps one of our most important tasks is to make sure that children who have never experienced love have the opportunity to experience it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1697	Some of the most difficult issues we are asked about are individual issues of child protection. All the representatives in this room who have ever received a phone call from a desperate child or youth, a desperate mother or father, or the desperate family and relatives, know that child protection matters can be heartbreaking. Even I engaged in the local child protection in the municipality where I live, the municipality of Modum, where there were challenges in the service. It led to a variety of enquiries, not only locally, but actually from all over the country. I really didn't know exactly what I had pecked away. That's how I've been getting my dose of enquiries over several years, and some of them are really totally scary. We who sit here are the ombudsmen and women of individuals. That's why it's important that we take time to listen to those who address us with their stories. As I said, some of the stories are cruel. Some of the stories leave us with the feeling that someone out there is hurting, without even knowing what really happened. But we know that even though child protection does a lot of good, they also make complete misassessments and decisions that, rather than helping, actually destroy both children and parents. Unfortunately, there is no recognition of the strength of their own faults in the protection of children, and therefore a new fault is often replaced by a new one, and families remain in an eternal round dance and fight against the inviolable child protection. Often, the stories are about individuals not feeling that their legal security is being protected in relation to child protection. It is precisely in such cases that we as ombudsmen and women can do something. We have a responsibility to provide children and parents with the very best legal certainty in child protection matters. There are also several organisations working for better child protection. I would particularly like to bring forward the Change Factory, which is also mentioned here before today. This is a former child protection child who, through his individual stories, is able to give us good and concrete advice. They point to ways the law can provide better child protection for both children and parents. In today's case, there are many good improvements. I could have mentioned many. I'll calculate it, for example. as one says that child protection is now being imposed on cooperation with children and parents. It is also required to facilitate the use of family councils when assessing the place of residence in the family or networks. These two improvements, together with many more, will hopefully improve the provision of child protection services to children and parents, and not least to experience the services they receive, as less dramatic and more helpful. The children are our future. Both the children and their parents deserve to be met with respect for child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1710	Improving the child protection law is an important issue – and a comprehensive and complex matter. I have had to spend a lot of time reading up and visiting various child protection services in different municipalities, and I have become incredibly interested in the subject on the way. It is good, then, that the Central Party and I broadly agree with most of the legislative changes proposed by the Department. It is right on such a large scale that the Children's Protection Act becomes a law on children's rights, and that the children are now also entitled to participation and information on their case. And it is certainly right to clarify the responsibility of child protection to cooperate and follow up the child and its parents. Not least, I am excited that the municipalities are now being given an obligation to assess the use of parental advice or other networks around the child in foster home placement. After visiting the Child Protection Service in Kongsberg, which can show very good results by using such a parental model in many cases, I am not in doubt that this is a good law change. But also in Kongsberg, it was clear that there are certainly some situations where the best thing for the child is not to have anything to do with the family or family. Therefore, I am pleased that the focus on the child's best is very clearly strengthened in the new law. We in the Center Party believe there are areas where the new Child Protection Act could have been further improved. We have made some proposals that I would have liked more parties to be involved and supported – such as setting limits on how many times a single child can be moved between different child protection measures, and not least our proposal that the law should make it clear that so-called exclusive measures for children in child protection institutions should not occur, unless, in exceptional cases, it is considered to be the best of the child. Let's not forget the tragic outcomes we've witnessed as a result of the system failing child-restraints, where, among other things. use of exclusive measures has not been good, e.g. in connection with the fatal knife killing at the South African Centre last summer. The 16-year-old girl as a knife strike was on her own. Both the Children’s Ombudsman and children’s protection children who have been on sole measures warn against this. Otherwise, we have a proposal to introduce a principle of subsidiarity in child protection, as we believe that proximity is too little emphasis. Two out of ten children are placed outside their own region. This practice shows that priority is given to the productivity and cost-effectiveness of institutional premises in relation to the needs of children to be connected to the home, often contrary to the best interests of the children. In addition, it is expensive for municipalities, which VG has recently revealed to be struggling with the very follow-up of foster homes. Yesterday I learned in the Northern Land Children’s Protection System that having children spread throughout the country is incredibly demanding. I was strengthened in the belief that a reinforced legislation on location in the neighbourhood will be the best, among other things. because it will also have to lead to increased attention and resources for the recruitment of multiple foster homes, which is what is needed. Of course, I find it regrettable that I do not receive support from the other parties to these proposals, but I understand the argument for this and therefore hope that we can work with them more together when the rest of the Children's Protection Act is being discussed. Then I hope there will also be a majority for real post-protection. Otherwise, I have to say that I find it strange that the centre party is alone in wanting to replace the terms ‘deadness’ and ‘expressed behaviour without norm’ with a better and more appropriate wording. The Swedish Children’s Protection Agency proposed this in its investigation, including: based on many consultation recordings. Christian People's Party and SV are in favour of this change in § 6-4, but in the other special laws that use the same wording, they do not go in and change it, like us. I think that's a little incomprehensible. Although we may be able to vote against the amendment to the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 9, I am really pleased that the entire committee is behind my proposal and the proposal of the Central Party that the government should look into whether it really should cover the expenses of interpreters and experts in general. The challenges with this were not least highlighted when we recently visited Kautokeino and Karasjok on committee missions. The whole thing was also concerned about it, and they've also given us the final impression that the original population's perspective should have a little more room in the changes we're making in the Children's Protection Act today. I support the Sametinge in that. But I look forward to getting the government's proposal for change, both in terms of the cost of experts and interpreters, and hopefully also by making a proposal to strengthen the Sami perspective when they and we will later address the entire Children's Protection Act. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1739	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1744	Today, we are doing something very important – the changes in the Child Protection Act mark a change in the view of our most vulnerable children. Finally, we get a child protection law that gives rights to the children, not just the state's obligations. It underlines who this really is about, and who we should actually help. For the left part, we can pull the threads back quite a long way – yes, maybe back to the Castberg children's elves. We have long believed that it is important to ensure that children in vulnerable situations have strong rights. The left has long considered that the right of assistance of the child should be statutory. We see that there are rights in other areas, such as health. patient rights. In that case, it must almost be regarded as a forgetting that we have not previously been able to recognise that the Child Protection Act should be a law on rights. Now the Children's Protection Act is exactly that, and then we strengthen the legal protection of our most vulnerable young people. There's a lot of changes in this law that you could like to make, but for me it's important especially to highlight some of the changes that strengthen the rights of the children to be heard. When we receive enquiries about child protection issues, it is quite rare that they come from those who are actually involved, because children's voices have been easily ignored. The changes in the law mean that children who are in contact with child protection are given a stronger right to be heard and to be more involved and to decide on their own decisions. I can't be clear enough how important it is to take the kids seriously and let them get involved in what might be the toughest processes they're going through in life. Some people seem to find it complicated that children in child protection should meet with love. No, love is not always easy, legal it may not be so easy to interpret precisely, however, I believe that the concept of love is important. Because there's something we're always going to strive for, it's that every child in this country gets to experience love. This is also to show children’s right to be heard in practice. As several other representatives have done before, I would also like to bring forward the Change Factory, i.e. the children and young people who, with experience in child protection, have fought for a long time to get the word ‘love’ into the intended purpose. When it's very important to them, it should also be important to us. It sends out a clear signal that we're listening to those who actually do. We cannot accept any more tragedies. We can't have any more things about system failure. From now on, it must always be documented in writing when attaching messages. That gives us an extra fuse. The changes that are now being made are a good basis for improving what is too many is a very difficult situation. Perhaps the changes we are making here now, by attaching rights to the Child Protection Act, can also help to make a process that too many can seem quite closed become more open.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1757	‘The tongue has power over death and life’, it is written in a well-known and dear book. It might sound violent, but words actually mean something. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Ministry has chosen to include the concept of 'love' in the proposal for a new purpose clause in the Child Protection Act. Although this change does not in itself imply new legal rights for children, the words say something about what the Child Protection Act and the Child Protection Institutes are all about: that all children deserve to be met with security, love and understanding. In particular, this is important for children who have been failed again and again by people they should have full confidence in. For these children, it may be vital that they meet in a good way by the system, by the protection of children. All children have the right to a safe childhood. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on that, also in this room. Given the cross-political consensus in the field, the Christian People's Party believes that there should also be a greater willingness to make budgetary priorities and time allocations from the top to the bottom to strengthen the children's right to a secure childhood. It was therefore encouraging that all four Councils called upon to intervene on 13 February this year to debate the escalation plan against violence and abuse, stressing that this was a priority area for them. These children don't have time to wait. The proposed legislative changes in Prop. 169 L is a small step in the right direction, but it's still a good piece. Recently we could read in the VG that foster home children do not receive the follow-up they are entitled to. Several municipalities justify their lack of supervisors and resources. The Christian People's Party has asked the Minister for Children and Gender Equality a written question about how the Ministry should ensure that all foster home children are followed up as they are entitled to. It is good that the ministry in this proposition emphasises that children's voice should be heard more, in view of foster homes, but in any case we cannot leave these foster families to ourselves after the child is placed there. Both for the child and for the foetus family, follow-up is essential. The second proposed amendment to the law I would like to point out – which is a follow-up to the request decision 598 of 25 April last – is about clarifying the obligation to provide information. This obligation, together with the obligation to notify and abolish, constitutes an important protection for vulnerable children. We know that children who are subjected to violence and abuse, usually dependent on adults who see the signals, who care, and who dare to intervene and say so. However, uncertainties about what these obligations really involve, when they are in force, and when they might be trodden by other obligations, such as the obligation of confidentiality, may prevent more children from being rescued from unbearable situations. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party has repeatedly called for guidance in different fields and levels that can contribute to increased security to report on suspicion that children are being subjected to violence and/or abuse. The Christian People's Party believes that the best ways for children must be given priority here. That is why, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, we propose to remove any doubts as to whether the situation is serious enough to be notified of, in point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 6-4. Several hearing bodies have just reported concerns that the wording may lead to the opposite of what is meant by the paragraph, namely that the threshold for reporting is higher rather than lower. We react to the fact that the government parties in the vote respond to our proposal to change the wording of this paragraph by pointing out that the parents can sue to take up personal matters, for example. with the teacher or with the doctor, in fear that they will communicate the information without their consent. This problem we think will be there anyway. § 6-4 refers to the fact that the obligation to provide information needs to be clarified and that the threshold to tell us whether or not to be concerned should be lowered. This is not primarily a paragraph that should lower the threshold for parents to address challenges with their teacher or doctor. Children who are subjected to violence and abuse deserve to be met by adults in kindergarten, in school and in health care who dare to see their pain and who have the skills and knowledge to say from and help them in the best possible way. A clearer disclosure obligation is therefore important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1774	I am pleased that the Stortinget today is dealing with this proposition, a proposition that follows up key proposals from the child protection committee's suspension, NOU 2016: 16, New Child Protection Act – ensuring the child's right to care and protection. The proposal also contains legislative proposals from two hearing notes prepared by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Several proposals in the proposal shall help to strengthen the child’s position in child protection matters. Other proposals are aimed, in particular, at improving the procedure for the provision of child protection services and at increasing the legal certainty of children and parents in child protection matters. The government is working to follow up the rest of the child protection committee's position, and aims to promote a legislative proposal to the Stortinget once we have reviewed all the proposals and changes that are needed to address and that are not mentioned in this section. I believe that the proposals in this proposition that are now under consideration should not await a complete review of the Child Protection Act. It was therefore very important of my predecessors to present this matter to Stortinget as soon as possible, and I am very pleased that this is getting so much excitement, and that the setting of this proposition is being adopted today. The child is the main character in child protection matters, and I think it is time that the Child Protection Act became a child rights law. I therefore propose to legislate that children have the right to the necessary child protection measures when the terms of the law are fulfilled. The proposal can help more children and parents become aware of their rights and therefore seek help. As the Committee stresses, the proposal has an important educational and symbolic function, in particular because it makes it clear that children are subjects with their own rights of care and protection. At the same time, I take note of the Committee's call to assess the legislative changes to give immediate protection up to the age of 25. I want to assess the need for regulatory changes in the after-care area in the work I do with Part 2 of the new Child Protection Act. I also note that the Committee is concerned with children's complaints, and the Ministry has had dialogue with user organisations to further clarify the children's need to complain about child protection services. The Health Authority has also made suggestions on how to make complaints easier for children who are in contact with child protection, and this is therefore a proposal that we are working on further. The rights of children to be heard are set out in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution, as well as the provisions on participation in the Children’s Act. Nevertheless, supervision and studies show that children are under-incorporated in child protection matters. I propose to clarify in the introductory chapter of the Act that children have an independent right to participate throughout the course of a child protection case. It is important that this is not only mentioned in parties or in the law, but that it is actually what is practised out there in the field of child protection, and that the voice of children is taken and evaluated. I am therefore also very pleased that the committee is so concerned about that perspective. Furthermore, the government proposes to legislate that decisions by the child protection services and the county council should indicate the child’s point of view, the importance of the child’s opinion and the best assessment of the child’s best interests. Overall, the proposals shall contribute to increasing participation and improving the basis for decision-making, and to making more correct decisions, for the best of the child. It is proposed by law to include in the provision for the purpose that the law should contribute to children's meeting with security, love and understanding. It is an important proposal, particularly for the Children's Protection Professionals at the Change Factory, which several representatives have been involved in. The proposal shall signal an expectation of how employees are to meet children in the field of child protection. I hope this is part of and contributes to a change, and that this is a sign of how children will meet with child protection. Children and parents must be treated with consideration and respect, taking into account the linguistic, religious and cultural background of their families. That's why I'm glad we're making clarifications in that way. I look forward to following up the rest of the Children's Protection Committee's proposal and coming back to Stortinget with proposals for a new Children's Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1807	In the proposal, one can read about some of the things to follow up: greater cooperation, increased networking and better documentation, a better listening to the children, a better involvement of networks, and a better care for cultural differences than is currently the case. In the past, the budgets of the government in the field of child protection have been underfunded, and the Stortinge has corrected this every year. The working party has invested money for more jobs and increased effort, which is necessary. The rapporteurs in Kautokeino and Karasjok are very concerned that indigenous people in Norway do not receive sufficient follow-up and assistance because of a lack of Sami cultural competence. The same thing has been written by the Sameting to the Committee and also to the Department. What concrete initiatives will the Council of State take in the follow-up to this law in order to follow up on the intentions of better looking after children with a different cultural background, and in particular Sami children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1816	I record the proposal that the Committee unanimously endorses. We're going to evaluate that. I'm very concerned that we have to make child protection able to meet the individual child, but also the individual family, with knowledge and understanding. We see that more and more people have recently pushed child protection away because you're afraid and worried instead of seeing that child protection can actually be a help. It is then that cultural understanding and competence in child protection are strengthened in all areas, not just in the media. That is why I am pleased that the representative is concerned particularly with the indigenous peoples and the Sami population. It's also a perspective that we have to take into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1827	In this proposition, the government has failed to propose the right to follow-up protection for children of 18 years of age. This is a pity for SV, because too many children in the care of child protection fall outside when they are left to themselves after they have reached the age of 18. In 2012, the then representative of the state council, Hofstad Helleland, was very clear in his criticism of the then government when it came to post-protection, but today, the governing parties of the state council are voting down SV's proposal on children's right to post-protection. Has the Council changed its mind since 2012? Should 18-year-old children be left to themselves? Or as first amanunensis Inger Oterholm writes in Dagbladet today: ‘Do politicians believe that 18-year-olds with child protection measures are more adults than other 18-year-olds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1837	I certainly don't. I'm stuck with what I said that time. Good individual follow-up even after the child reaches the age of 18, is crucial, and especially for the children we are talking about here, who can't just take a phone home to get a little more money in the account or get help with the choices you have to make when you go into adult life. That is why I am very pleased that SV is engaged in strengthening post-protection. I have no difficulty expressing here that I believe it should be strengthened, and that we should also consider giving the right to protection up to the age of 25. But this is something we have to go into, consider and come back with a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1842	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. It is good to hear that further consideration is being given, but I would like to ask a little more if the Council of State can say something obligingly that the right to follow-up protection will come in connection with new child protection laws, and, if necessary, what other reflections and assessments the Council of State is making today, in this Chamber, on how to ensure good after-care, and on what kind of changes are needed in connection with the new Child Protection Act, but also elsewhere. This is also a resource question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1848	I am very pleased that the government is so clear on the need for post-protection, and that we therefore explicitly say in the Jeløya platform that we want to strengthen post-protection. That means we have to make some rule changes. That means we have to see if we're going to raise the limit to 25 in the new Child Protection Act. I'm going to consider what other measures we can take, so that we can take care of the children who have had a bad childhood, and who we can't in any way expect from the same point of view to enter adult life, considering both how to cope with education and how to be able to stand on their own, get into work. In order for them to have opportunities to live a good life, we can not just leave responsibility at an early age, but look at how to strengthen it in every way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1853	The cord shift is over. The speakers who speak below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1860	Most of this proposition is a major cross-political consensus, and SV also likes to boast to the government about many of these provisions. However, SV points to some areas where the proposition is based. Some of the areas notice an overall committee, and we are very pleased about that, while in other areas SV is promoting proposals today. One of those areas is the right to follow-up protection, which we've discussed a little bit. Today, we lose many of the most vulnerable among us when they're 18 years old. Children's protection says that after a long time in the care of children, many people will have nothing to do with child protection at the age of 18, but then many quickly discover that they need more help and follow-up, that they need post-protection even if they didn't believe it from the start. Therefore, SV proposes the right to follow-up protection up to the age of 25, with the possibility for young people to change their mind if they have first said no, because the transition from youth to child protection and the care for independence of children can be a tough transition, with which many people need help. In any case, many of these young people go to a public assistance service over a period of time. Then we think it's just as good that child protection, which knows the child and the history, can be in place right away and facilitate the transition. Another important area where SV will go further in order to strengthen the best interests of children is the complaint procedure. Today, children in child protection have a very weak complaint, which is not adapted to children. The Child Protection Act is now becoming a right law – we support it – but if a right law is to be real, it must also be a genuine appeal procedure. That is why we go beyond the rest of the committee in asking for a more child-friendly complaint. Today, SV also proposes to strengthen children’s right to participation in several areas of the law. The proposition proposes a new overall provision on the participation of children, but this provision does not apply everywhere in the proposition. Therefore, SV proposes a stronger right to participation in the entire law, including in the case of procedural rights, in the case of accommodation in foster homes, and in the case of documentation. Finally, I have to address the economic and administrative consequences. The Ministry believes that changes to the laws will not have such consequences. But we're worried, because already today 80 pst reports. of the child-restraint workers that they have too many things to do a good enough job. If the best interests of the child are to be cared for, there must be enough safe, competent staff at work that can provide care. Therefore, SV believes there is a need for a new, ear-marked escalator of 250 million. kr more a year to increase the number of crews. All welfare is ultimately about people, people who do a job and care. If we are to strengthen child protection, more people are needed at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1873	During the examination of this law, the Family and Culture Committee was on committee missions in Finnmark. The Committee was briefed by the rapporteur, Johan Vasara, in the municipality of Kautokeino, on the specific costs incurred by Sami-speaking municipalities, among others. when they run matters in the county. Communes with Sami as a majority language, Kautokeino and Karasjok, have special costs for interpreters to use their language in general. These municipalities use Sami daily, including in the proceedings and treatment of child protection cases. Because Norway has committed itself to maintaining the Sami language and culture, Sami language as an administrative language is important. That is why I and the committee believe it is right that we ask the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way in the follow-up to this law, where the municipal responsibility for the expenses of interpreters in matters of general interest is examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1878	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1894	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1910	Under the animal welfare law of the day, an animal taken in temporary storage may not be relocated or sold without the consent of the owner. Today, the owner’s lack of consent to relocating causes animals that can live well with a new owner to be killed in some cases. The Committee welcomes the strengthening of the animal relocation legislation and the need to amend the non-consent provision for the resettlement of animals in order to allow those animals to live on. Among others, the members of the Workers’ Party in the Committee have pointed out that situations may arise in which the cost-coverage of the animal owner may, by extension of temporary custody as a result of a complaint, go beyond the real nature of the right of appeal and that the practice must therefore be foreseen for the animal owner and handled in a manner that ensures a genuine right of complaint for the animal keeper. Whereas the overall recommendation of the Committee has been submitted;
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1919	The Animal Protection Act entered into force on 1 January 2010. Then a change was made where the intention was good, but where the result unfortunately became a weakening of animal welfare. In order to safeguard the private ownership of the animal owner, the law was amended in such a way that animals taken in temporary custody of the Food Safety Authority by reason of neglect could no longer be relocated or sold without the consent of the owner. As a result, many animals that could otherwise have had a good life in new owners were killed because the owner opposed repositioning or selling. The Ministry proposes in Prop. 30 L for 2017-2018 to reintroduce the provision of the Animal Protection Act from before 2010 that the Food Safety Authority may decide whether to relocate or sell animals taken in temporary storage without the consent of the owner. This avoids the problem that killing is the only alternative when the owner will not approve repositioning or sale. The Christian People's Party will today vote in favour of the proposal for such a reversal in the legal text. It is in line with the advice from both the Food Authority, the Animal Ethics Council and animal protection organisations that have been involved in the matter. When we provide our support for such a change, it is also because the Department of Justice has concluded that such an intervention in ownership does not conflict with the Basic Law as long as the owner is paid the sum of the sales of any sale, less the costs incurred while the animal or animals have been in temporary custody. The animal owner will still have the right to appeal by decision to relocate or sell. We also believe that the proposal to oblige the animal owner to cover the cost of killing if a decision is taken on it can help prevent animals from being killed without compelling necessity. The Christian People's Party will therefore support that proposal too. We choose to allow animal welfare to weigh heavily in such evil and difficult matters, but like the Workers' Party, we have taken an important reservation with regard to the rights of the animal owner. In some cases, situations may arise in which the costs of prolonged temporary storage due to complaints from the animal owner become very high. This could be done, for example, by: if animals are exposed in agriculture and there is a larger number of animals taken in temporary storage. In such cases, costs that the animal owner may have to pay while the complaint is being dealt with may, in effect, result in the right of appeal not being exercised, because the amounts involved may be very high. We therefore believe that the practice of the legal provisions must be made predictable for the animal owner and practised in a way that ensures a genuine right of appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1934	I think it's important that we correct in laws and rules that are inconsistent, and that over time are unruly. When ordinary people feel that the law is not adapted to the situation they themselves are in, it happens that there is something wrong with the law. This is a good example of it, because even if an animal owner is deprived of the animal because it does not reveal sufficient animal welfare in the situation in which the animal has been in, the same owner has been able to demand the animal to be killed instead of being relocated. We're now going to correct that. I am pleased that the committee joins the proposals submitted by the government, and we are therefore starting to implement the work. Temporary storage may be carried out on the keeper’s account. The rule of costs is a rule of chance. The cost of extending temporary detention due to the handling of the complaint may in principle be borne by the keeper if the person concerned is unable to comply with the complaint. However, if the complaint takes a long time, this may be problematic. I have noticed, therefore, that the majority of the Committee has joined in the assessments made by the Norwegian Bondelag when it comes to the practice of cost recovery, which must be far-sighted and thus contribute to a genuine right of complaint for the keeper. We'll follow that up. It's e.g. it is unreasonable that if there is an undue length of time in the Food Safety Authority, the animal owner must finance it. We're going to follow this up and we're going to make sure that the Food Safety Authority practices in a sufficiently flexible way. At the same time, I believe it is right for me to be honest with Stortinget that there is still reason to believe that there will be something different practice in the repositioning issue when it comes to traditional farmed animals and pets. This is how the use of laws in specific matters could be influenced by how the ordinary understanding of how important it is to be an individual is. In particular, it is natural in parts of the farmed animal environment. I'm glad we're now getting to this change. She has been in demand for a long time and wants to make it possible for the Food Safety Authority to find the best solutions in the individual cases where animals have been taken in temporary custody. I would therefore like to thank the Committee for joining the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1949	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1965	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to 6 rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1974	In May 2017, the government legalised 19 reptile species, so that it would be lawful to keep them as domestic animals in Norwegian homes. The regulation imposing the ban on such animal husbandry was adopted in 1976. There had been a long time working among many to soften this ban. The Food Authority finally made an assessment, the department made a rule change, and then these 19 species proposed by the Food Authority could be legalized. Many were very pleased with this, both veterinarians, zoo-businesses, zoo-traders and those who are fascinated by these animals, and there are quite a few of them. The legalization of the animals came about because many wanted it, and because there were no compelling reasons why you shouldn't be able to do it. The Food Authority had already compiled a list of animals that were not problematic, and the animals that were mentioned here could be well suited as hobbies. An argument used against the legalisation of reptiles is salmonella infection. Reptiles and other animals may be carriers of salmonella, and reports have been shown, inter alia. from the United States, which says that up to 18 pst. Salmonella infection comes from reptiles alone. It turns out that this applies to only one special species, reddish-eyed terrapine, and that these were wildly caught – so they didn't live in captivity. A report on zoonoses from Swedish veterinary authorities estimates the risk of infection from pet animals to about 1 pst. of the salmonella cases in Sweden. That includes dog, cat and bird. It is probably a little more relevant to Norway. That is, the risk of infection is small. As with all other animal husbandry, it is important, among other things. cleaning, hygiene and knowledge. This is something that reptiles put in the high seat, and the industry itself has gone to the heart to make sure that current and future reptiles get good and correct knowledge. I'm also counting on, among other things, The Veterinary Institute will seek to acquire this knowledge, as they admit that it is deficient and they have also been involved in disseminating information on this matter, despite the lack of knowledge they have. Since the lifting of the ban, the zoo industry, importers and intermediaries have invested a lot both in physical adaptations and in knowledge. It is important that this knowledge is now disseminated to those who want to obtain these animals. It is also reported from the industry that those who want to become owners and come to buy such animals are very knowledgeable and want to have the best possible animal husbandry. So let the legalization of these 19 species persist, and let's get more experience and knowledge to the best for the animals and for those who want to have such animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e1987	The ban on the keeping of exotic animals was introduced in 1976. In 2016, the Food Authority sent out a list of reptiles that could be kept in private homes for consultation. There were a number of recordings from different disciplines and individuals. The arguments for a ban contained in the draft representative were also raised in the hearing and were carefully considered after the consultation round. In terms of infection, the Food Safety Authority pointed out in its consultation summary that the Veterinary Institute and the Public Health Institute expressed a higher risk of human infection than the Scientific Committee on Food Safety concluded. The Food Authority further considered that legal animal husbandry would pose a lower risk of infection than illegal animal husbandry. They considered that legalisation would make it easier for reptiles to be informed about hygiene measures and to prevent the spread of disease from reptiles. They also considered that a legalisation in sum would be more positive for animal welfare, not least because there was already extensive illegal holding of such animals. Right is concerned with good animal welfare and prevention of infectious diseases. Food surveillance is an important body of knowledge in such matters. They point out that legal husbandry would be at a lower risk of infection than if the husbandry were illegal. Legal animal husbandry will make it easier for both veterinarians and keepers to carry out more predictable and preventive work. Predictability is important in all sectors and for all actors. Prohibiting this animal husbandry only six months after the lifting of the ban exposes this group of nutritionists to an uncertain future. It is important that keepers and professional environments experience continuity and predictable framework conditions that do not work to the detriment of either animals or those who have invested in order to achieve the welfare of these animals. I was with the hairdresser yesterday. He who cut my hair was very busy showing videos of a reptile – his pet – who ate eggs. I have to admit myself that I could never intend to have a lizard, but you have to admit that there are people out there who look at these animals as part of their family. You might think that a lot should be forbidden because you don't like it, but in this case, where we know that legal animal husbandry of the reptiles leads to better animal welfare, the Right believes that reintroducing the ban is not the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2000	At least the representative has a nice hairdresser.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2005	I have to say it's strange that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left can use the multiple they had to get through the fights they choose. It is quite clear that the centre party opposed the legalization of these reptiles, and we support the proposal to reverse it. I thought it was a pretty bad reason for this change, that is: there are so many illegal reptiles in Norway, so let's make them legal for that reason. So now our veterinary authorities have to build up their skills to handle these reptiles. I think it's the wrong place to start. The founding of the centre party to oppose this is about animal welfare and the risk of infection. Firstly, these reptiles have little pleasure in human contact. They think actually human beings are an utilitarian, so it's definitely the need of human beings being put in the front row. Secondly, these animals must have something to eat. Feeding either rats or sweet little rabbits with the idea that they should be fed to a snake – yes, it may be that the Advance Party, Right and Left seem to be a high-level activity – seems ethically questionable. There's been a lot of talk about the live feeding of animals. Yeah, that's illegal, but I don't think a should be so naive that one doesn't think it happens. In the case of legalisation, the size of the number of animals will increase, and it is very likely that the amount of live feeding will also increase. There is nothing the Centre Party wants, and therefore we oppose this liberalisation of the legislation. The Food Authority has given its advice, and I understand that the Food Authority has assessed this far in the way that the government did when a person drove through this, namely that there is so much illegal possession of these animals, so let's do it legally and get it into controlled forms. The Centre Party places more emphasis on the recordings of the Institute of Public Health and the Veterinary Institute. Yes, perhaps one can argue for a long time and well, as the case-speaker did, that the infection risk is small, but it is definitely so that with more reptiles entering the country the contagion rises. Traditionally, we have established a precautionary principle when it comes to infectious diseases. And although it's limited to 19 species, we don't know whether this will affect the import or smuggling of illegal species, because there are quite a few more snakes, lizards and turtles than 19 different species. What I also think is an argument that it's important to have, because one can't at least assume that if one legalizes 19 species, the illegal smuggling will stop. This boils down to: Do we mean it's so important that we have green trepyton, king python, carpet python, king boa and the dwarf in Norway? I'm not overindulging in it. It's also special that the parties that are now securing the plurality of the proposal today, give some reason why it should be careful for the industry. We've just had a round of mink, decent farmers who needed tough conditions. At that time, the parties were not occupied with it. Producing clothes wasn't good enough, but having pets that didn't appreciate people is a good enough reason. And I'm surprised that the Labour Party in this case is turning around and securing multiples so that these species are still legal. With that, I would like to address the proposal to which the Central Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2024	The representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2029	SV's starting point in this case is that we have to try to find the best solutions for everyone, and we have landed that the very best thing for both animals and society is to go in to reintroduce the ban on these reptiles. First, I just want to take a little bit of a review of the arguments that we've been given, which are against prohibition. It has been pointed out that despite the fact that it has been banned for a long time, it is quite up to 100,000 illegally introduced reptiles in Norway. The lifting of this ban, as we have now done, will cause more people to dare take these animals with them to the veterinarian. It is initially not illegal to take illegally introduced animals to a veterinarian, but this will make more people dare to do so, and it will be positive when it comes to infection, etc. The next argument that has been used is that the Food Authority, based on its review in 2016, believes that it is very difficult to enforce a ban, that there is little respect for the ban, and that it itself speaks to lift the ban. In addition, it will reduce the amount of smuggling, it has been pointed out, if one legalises it. Finally, it has also been maintained – an argument that I respect – that this can be an alternative as a food for allergy sufferers. However, we have gone in to reintroduce this ban for quite clear reasons. Firstly, these reptiles can pose a very serious public health problem, and besides, there are a number of veterinary issues here that we should address. First, 90 pst. of all reptiles are bearers of salmonella. By lifting a ban, we have to assume that it will increase the introduction of reptiles into Norway. Several reptiles to Norway will also mean more salmonella, which will lead to more human infections. We know the effect of salmonella on the population. Multiple salmonella infections will lead to an increase in the number of spontaneous abortions for pregnant women. It is also pointed out that salmonella infections can be fatal for young children. Opening up to such a large number of salmonella carriers in Norway is negative. In addition, the Veterinary Institute has pointed out that antibiotic-resistant salmonella bacteria are an ever-increasing problem. This is increasing the extra. It's also a matter of animal welfare. The starting point for the Animal Welfare Act is that all animals should be allowed to end their natural needs. And there's nothing in a country like Norway, snow-covered and far north, that means that these illegal reptiles have any possibility of running out of their natural needs, even if they use terrarium and the kind of fences for them. Rather, this will be a place where they will be able to escape to a small extent for their natural needs. We also know that the reptiles experience to a very small extent something special pleasure of being with human beings. It's more like the other way around. Besides, there are several people who are injured by being stroked by man, which means that this is a group that should perhaps less behave with human beings. In sum, SV supports the proposal, and we ask ourselves that the Labour Party would not stand firm on the line that has been under the red-green, that one has had a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2048	In May 2017, the government legalised 19 reptiles using regulations. The regulation entered into force on 15 August last year. It was then legal to have nine species of snakes, seven species of lizards and three species of turtle in private ownership in Norway. I do not deliberately use the terms «house animals» or «pets» about this animal category, because, as far as we know, these animals do not have a sensory or emotional system that allows them to appreciate close contact with humans. In the context of the amendment of the regulation, the government obtained opinions from several trade unions on whether private teams of reptiles should be allowed here in the country. Several of the trade unions then gave clear warnings. The public health institute showed that salmonella is part of the common bacterial flora of reptiles and that about 90 pst. of all reptiles are carriers of salmonella. Several cases of antibiotic resistant salmonella bacteria have also been detected in reptiles. The Public Health Institute therefore warned against legalising reptiles in Norway due to the increased risk of human salmonella infection. A salmonella infection may, as you know, be very serious, particularly for children, sick, pregnant and elderly, and the Public Health Institute stated in its reply that: «Amendment to the legislation on the keeping of exotic animals is not recommended since we consider that this could constitute a significant public health problem.» The Veterinary Institute also warned against legalising reptiles, because these are animals that require a good deal of competence from the owner, including: in the case of a species-right living environment in captivity. If that competence is lacking, there may be negative consequences for animal welfare. The animal protection alliance was also negative to the legalisation of reptiles. They argued that reptiles often react negatively to human contact and that frequent close contact with owners could therefore reduce the well-being of these animals rather than improve it. In addition, it is an unpleasant fact that other animals are bred exclusively as feed animals for carnivorous reptiles, which is problematic for animal ethical reasons. We in the Christian People's Party record that the government parties in their comments in the committee election argue in a mildly strange way to explain why it was necessary to legalize the teams of reptiles in Norway. Both in terms of risk of infection, hygiene information, veterinary services and animal welfare control, it is argued that this is easier to achieve when the husbandry is legal than when it is illegal. Such a kind of argument is really a solid failure statement. Instead of implementing an effective control regime that prevents illegal introduction and keeping, of animals that represent a high risk of infection and are poorly suited to a life in close contact with humans, the government parties thus choose to legalise what a confessor has been a long-standing practice of violating laws and regulations. Let us sincerely hope that such administrative practices, through amendments to regulations, do not set the standard for solving problems in other forms of less serious illegal activity in society. In these circumstances, the Christian People's Party wishes to reintroduce the ban on reptile species, which was legalised with effect from 15 August 2017, with immediate effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2072	The working party sees that this is a complex matter, which is among other things. the various contributions made by the professional authorities. The position of the working party is primarily justified by the fact that there has been a short time since a change was made in the field, and that we have no experience since the time when we are suggesting that we should make a change today. That is our most important view in this matter, and with that I have explained our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2077	I'll try to be almost as short as the Labour Party representative, but I can't promise. My starting point is that I think this is a matter that it might strictly be used more words on both sides than what is needed. The mention of the risk of infection, which has been widely used in this debate, does not entirely reflect the assessment of the Food Safety Authority, namely that legalising would have a greater control of infectious pressures than one would have by continuing a ban line. For example, if you are busy with the infection press, you can emphasising the fact that an actual liberalises, as a positive measure in that direction. Animal welfare is another central element. If one acknowledges that over time, with alternating governments, imports of reptiles into Norway have taken place, which have resulted in several tens of thousands of reptiles, and that the Food Authority believes it is easier to control and supervise animal welfare if it is organised in legal forms than if one continues to ban, one may, if one is busy with animal welfare, argue for the liberalisation that was made. This is what a person can do, because there is no clear and unambiguous advice in this field. And then you're left with the basics: is everything better if it's banned, or does it think it can go well? I think it can go well, based on the professional advice given by the Food Authority. At the same time, there is no doubt that the 19 species that have been selected have just been picked out with the idea that there are those species that are at least at risk. The result is also the ability to own reptiles in Norway, limited to 19 species. It means something to some people. Some of what was drawn out by the representative of the Socialist Left Party was, for example, the following: all the audio recordings that have come about the importance of this for allergy sufferers. It may be said that a priority other than the allergy sufferers, but there is no doubt that there have been several positive hearing statements about it. It shows that there's no reason to end up in either one or the other shooter's grave. This will take place in controlled forms, it will happen in a country based on a clear regulatory framework and understanding that animal welfare will remain sufficiently marked and that we will continue to fight against the risk of animal-to-people infection. We're going to be able to find that balance in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2089	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2094	It will be added to the Food Authority, the police and customs authorities that are responsible for distinguishing between the 19 legal species and what one might try to import from illegal species. Now this has been legalized for a while, and then my question to the Council of State: What training has been given to those responsible for this import control, with a view to distinguishing between the legal reptiles and the illegal reptiles?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2099	It's funny that the Center Party is now busy having experience of the schemes that you've had. There is nothing to suggest that their suggestions are in the position to affect a single position. But I think there's every reason to wait for all the evaluations of how this has worked in practice. For many of the actors who advocate the possibility of import, it is about legalising it and, for example, about it. through formal outlets rather than underground outlets. I think that the part of the organized business we've seen has taken responsibility for this, suggests knowledge-based that we should be able to get a better animal welfare for reptiles in Norway with this change than we had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2104	I record that I did not receive an answer to what training has been given, and I would rather challenge a question about this with feed animals: does the Council have some ethical scruples with e.g. driving the breeding of rabbits for the purpose of feeding snakes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2109	There are several things I see as not advisable to do, which I do not propose to prohibit without delay. I strongly believe that any of that which is clearly forbidden today, should still be so, for example. feed with live animals – totally unacceptable, shall not happen, strictly regulated, shall remain so. At the same time, I would encourage all the actors who are concerned that we should be able to have a legitimate hold of reptiles in Norway, to act so that it also has popular acceptance. Then I'd like to say that, for example. breeding dwarf rabbits for the purpose of feeding snakes is a bad business idea if one has thought that this should still be allowed, at least as the Storting position is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2116	Governments have a lack of responsibility. He is responsible for ensuring good animal welfare for those who keep animals private. It's important. However, I believe that very many in Norway will agree that two things are much more important: ensuring good food safety and ensuring good animal health in farm animals. In this case, the Council of State was faced with a choice: either to allow reproducibility for a relatively small group of people keeping that type of animal, or to prevent the overall spread of infection in Norway as regards food safety and farmed animals in agriculture from increasing. In any case, it will be the result of an opening for the introduction of these animals. Can the Council say a little about how he evaluated when he chose to prioritise this rather special group of pets?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2123	I chose to listen to the Food Authority, which concluded quite the opposite – quite the opposite. They said that the risk of infection would be lower by legal means than by illegal means, and I have taken that into account. It's actually not harder than that. I am proud of the professional assessments that have been made, and I think that there are actually more competent people in the Food Safety Authority who can be asked for advice than to make these assessments entirely on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2128	If one assumes that the situation would be the status quo after this was legalized, that would be a point. But I think the Council of State agrees that when one legalizes this, the total number of animals in this category in Norway will increase sharply. Then the Council of State will not fail that it will also mean a significant increase in the pressure of infection. Does the Council not see that an increased proportion of these animals in Norway could be a problem in terms of increased infection pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2133	Without bringing me to justice over those who keep milking in their houses, I believe the market is fairly limited. Someone thinks that there were tens of thousands of reptiles introduced into Norway illegally, that it becomes a giant tree – it sounds like one in almost all the households in Norway would find a milk snuff. Luckily, I don't believe that. It's about dealing with this thing soberly from both sides. I mean the case tolerate it, because here's the different professional advice, here's the different care that can be given. I believe that with the legislation we have related to animal welfare, with the structures and guidelines we have linked to fighting infection, and with the clear professional advice we get from the Food Safety Authority on this, we are sufficiently confident that this is one of several prohibitions this country does without.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2140	I thought it was a little bit special to complain about the concern that there might be an increase in the number of reptiles. I don't see the basis for that. State councils still say that he didn't believe it would happen. We're not interested in what the council thinks, we're interested in what one knows. Both the Institute of Public Health and the Veterinary Institute have warned against this. There is so much salmonella – 90 pst. reptila is a carrier of salmonella – and poses major challenges for human health due to the increase in salmonella infections, as well as antibiotic resistance. My question is, if one takes this seriously: What does the Council of State do and what initiative does the Council of State take to prevent the damage this increase will presumably lead to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2147	It would have been an advantage if one had listened to the previous answers I've given, where I said that we can't say with certainty that this will increase the infection pressure. Professional advice from e.g. On the contrary, food supervision says that it can work in the opposite direction. I'm busy fighting infection. For this reason, we are running a large-scale eradication of MRSA in Norwegian pigs, for example, a clearly higher risk as the situation is now for spreading antibiotic-resistant bacteria than this would be. That's a good reason why we're going to produce food for the nation's population. But this means that we have an active work in several areas, for example: by updating my action plan on antibiotic-resistant bacteria every six months, which means that we have also rolled out new measures in the last few days. This is an ongoing work, this will continue, but it is important to remember – if one is busy with infectious stress and where the really big challenges lie – that the really big challenges are not yet in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2153	At least it's not positive, rather the opposite – negative. There's a very clever argument the Council of State is putting on here. If there's going to be anything in the state council here, that a working hard, he should have managed to answer the big question, which is, what are the trainings that are the ones that are going to enforce this at the border, to separate these 19 reptiles from others? The first question that the Council of State got in this questioning, which he did not answer then, is now going to give him the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2158	When the representative Knag Fylkesnes looks past the answers I have given, I must first spend some time on it again. When a conclusion is drawn contrary to what the Food Authority actually recommends, even after this has been heard, the representative Knag Fylkesnes can stand here tomorrow and repeat the same false claims, but it does not lead this debate any way. Therefore, I believe it is wise to occasionally turn right on those who have the professional competence in this area. I've done that for example. emphasising the recommendations of the Food Authority, both on the types of animals we now allow, and on the type of legislation we administer. Food surveillance is responsible for following the legislation given and for the adequate competence of those to do so. They are busy following up on the supervision to be carried out, and they will continue to do so, as the representative Knag Fylkesnes today will lose his vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2163	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2179	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2196	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2208	The Stortinget is then ready to go to voting on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1 was the distribution from the prime minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2243	The left and red have warned that they will speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2259	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik, on behalf of the Party of the Centre, the Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 4, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Environment Party Dei Green proposed no. 5-7, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and Red proposed no. 8 and 9, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, Proposal No. 8 and 9 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the systemic risk created by larger enterprises to be reflected in the fees charged to the Inlet Guarantee Fund and the Crisis Action Fund so that larger enterprises will have to pay equally the relatively right tax than smaller enterprises’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a model for the election of directors of the Bank’s Insurance Fund, which clearly indicates that the Fund is not a government body but nevertheless gives the State the necessary control.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2296	Proposal No. 5-7, from the Center Party and Red. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the necessary steps to avert the 2 million threshold. kronor will be removed or reduced if a situation arises where the inlet guarantee must be changed otherwise’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked by the government through regulation to make it clear that taxpayers are not to be left with the account for rescue operations against banks and financial institutions». Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government by regulation to make it clear that if the exceptional situation were to arise that the State would in any way be involved in a rescue operation against financial undertakings, this must be left to the Storting on a case-by-case basis’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2323	Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Environment Party Dei Green. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a ceiling on the size of the mutual funds in order to ensure better competitiveness of Norwegian banks and financial institutions’. The Green Party supports the proposal – yes, it should be lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2342	Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals to restore real Norwegian sovereignty over the financial regulation in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e2358	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to inform the Storting immediately if there is reason to believe that the deposit guarantee with an amount limit of 2 million. kronor must be extinguished or reduced.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with concrete suggestions on how to strengthen its financial supervision.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4438	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4449	The law decision will be set up for the second time in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4458	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘I In Law No 4 July 1991 47 on marriage shall § 1a. is replaced § 1 a. Marriage age. Anyone under the age of 18 cannot marry. II The law enters into force from the time the King decides”. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider proposing a provision of the Marriage Act prohibiting the conclusion of a prior marriage agreement for persons under 18 years of age.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4499	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4515	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård has presented one proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requires the government to present a child-restraint plan, the aim of which is to increase the rates to 1996 levels and to organise them so that as many as possible children no longer belong to the low-income group, including a special increase for single-parents and families with three or more children’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4797	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4808	The law decision will be set up for the second time in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4817	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 3-7, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 9-12, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 13 and 14, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4841	Proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth sentence of Sections 1 to 6 is replaced by the following: Documentation must be made in cooperation with the child and the child must be able to provide feedback on the protection of children. In meeting child protection, all children are given the opportunity to have a trustee with them.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4862	President! I think I printed wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4867	It's being noted. Then the result shall be 94 voices against and 8 voices for the proposal. Thus, the proposal of the Socialist Left Party is not accepted. Proposal No. 14 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4-22, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Childcare services shall always, if the child so wishes, assess whether someone in the child’s family or close network is to be selected as a foster home. This must, as far as possible, be done in cooperation with the child.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4890	Proposal No. 9-12, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a principle of subsidiarity in the protection of children which gives children in child protection a legal right to be offered in close proximity to the child’s home and which prevents the long-term movement of children, if it is not for the child’s benefit’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a principle of subsidiarity in child protection that limits the number of times a single child can be moved between different child protection measures.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that only measures for children in child-restraint institutions are not taken, unless it is considered to be the best for the child in special cases.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘Section 6-4, first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: c) When a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise puts his or her own health and development at risk. In Law No 4 July 1991 47 on marriage, point (c) of the second paragraph of paragraph 26a shall be replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise puts his or her own health and development at risk; In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. Paragraphs 25-11(c) shall be replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangers his or her own health and development; In Law No. 19 June 1997 No. 62 on family protection offices, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 10 shall be replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise puts his or her own health and development at risk; In Law 17 July 1998 No. 61 on primary and secondary education, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 15-3 shall be replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangering his or her health and development; In Law 2 July 1999 No. 64 on health professionals, etc. Paragraph 33, second paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangers his or her own health and development; In Law No 4 July 2003 84 on independent schools, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 7-4 shall be replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangering his or her health and development; In Law No 4 July 2003 80 on the introduction scheme and Norwegian training for newly arrived immigrants, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 26 shall be replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangers his or her own health and development; In Law 19 June 2009 No. 44 on municipal emergency services, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangering his or her health and development; In Law 18 December 2009 No. 131 on social services in labour and welfare management, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 45 shall be replaced by the following: c) where a child has serious challenges in terms of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangers his or her own health and development;’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4971	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4976	There was only one error. Then the result shall be 90 voices against and 12 voices for the proposal. The proposals from the Center Party have therefore not been accepted. Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 6-4, first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following: c) when a child is struggling with serious challenges in the form of serious or repeated crime, drug abuse or otherwise endangers his health or development.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e4999	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Sections 6 to 3 shall be replaced by the following: All children who are able to form their own views shall be provided with sufficient and adapted information and have the right to express their views freely before a decision is taken on a matter relating to him or her. The child shall be listened to and, and the child’s views shall be emphasised in accordance with the age and maturity of the child.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 1-3 shall be replaced by the following: Children have the right to maintain or replace measures taken before the child reaches the age of 18 by other measures provided for in this Act until the child reaches the age of 25.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5032	Proposal No. 3, 4 and 7 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children and young people placed in foster homes/institutions receive, as early as possible, a health evaluation/consultation to ensure the monitoring, prevention and early follow-up of any emotional or behavioural problems and mental difficulties or suffering.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate a fully funded ‘child protection reform’ in line with the recommendations of NOU 2016:16 and to promote the cause of the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Articles 1 to 3 shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry may lay down supplementary provisions on the rights of children and young people to follow-up protection. Paragraphs 1 to 5 are replaced by the following: § 1-5 Children and the right of young people to the necessary child protection measures Children and young people are entitled to the necessary measures under the law when the conditions for the action are met. the fourth paragraph of Section 4-15 is replaced by the following: Children have the right to continue their placement or to agree to receive other relief measures after the age of 18. In good time before the child reaches the age of 18, the child protection service shall, in cooperation with the child, consider continuing the placement or agreement to receive other relief measures after the age of 18. The child protection service, in cooperation with the child, shall draw up a plan for future action. The plan shall be reviewed annually or, where appropriate, in the light of the situation and wishes of young people.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5081	Proposal No. 2, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 6-4, first paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: (a) where there is reason to believe that a child is being or will be abused, is subjected to serious deficiencies in the daily care or other care failure;’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5101	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to register and follow up the matters in which agreements are reached between municipalities on the liability of children residing in another country and to ensure that the best and not the financial interests of the child are decisive for the municipality that assumes the task of follow-up.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5836	A I §4-16 will be voted on in the new last sentence. The Socialist Left Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5850	The second sentence is added to the first paragraph of Section A I.9-1. The centre party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5864	It is contested by A I § 6-4, first paragraph, points (a) and (c). The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they are subsidising.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5876	There is a vote on A I new § 1-5. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they are subsidising.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5888	The third paragraph of Section 4-22 is contested. The Socialist Left Party has warned that they are substituting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5901	A II-VIII and X and XI shall be contested. All Romantic liabilities for point (c) of the second paragraph. The centre party has announced that they will subsidize.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5913	It's going to be over the rest of A, and over B.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5923	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5933	The law decision will be set up for the second time in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5949	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e5961	There were a few voices. We're resuming the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6018	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6028	The law decision will be set up for the second time in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6038	During the debate, Geir Pollestad has presented one proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the reintroduction of the ban on the reptile species which was legalised with effect from 15 August 2017 with immediate effect.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6055	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6060	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6065	The case spokesperson, huh? I think we should do that again. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6084	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6100	Case No. 11 and 12 are the second time the law is handled and the law is governed by Decisions 27 and 28. There are no comments suggested. Thus, the Bill of the Storting has been accepted for the second time and has been sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-03-06.ana.ud49e6160	As a result, the issues on today's map are finished. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
