ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e29	The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e39	On behalf of the representatives Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a national smart city strategy, as it is necessary to ensure sufficient public ownership of common infrastructure and building data.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e44	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e49	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Nicholas Wilkinson, Gina Barstad, Solfrid Lerbreck, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself on compensation for salary growth in operational agreements in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e54	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e59	On behalf of the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I am delighted to submit a proposal for a representative not to introduce a new fee for a transfer certificate, the so-called death fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e64	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e69	On behalf of Per Olaf Lundtägen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to change the rules and practices for the use of final contracts and right-wing settings for managers in healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e75	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e91	SV invites the Senior Minister to the Stortinget because we are curious about what older people have in store for now. Is the Ministerial post only a gift to the Progress Party, or are we actually getting an improvement for the elderly in Norway? Much is good in Norwegian ageing policy. Thousands of our older people get safe and good care, both in their home and in their homes. Skilled employees stand on every single day to make sure people feel good. I myself want to bring out the Caring + Fight in Oslo, which I visited one day here in our home, where the employees work to secure a residence. It's not just health care it's about, it's about older people being able to live together, having a good time together. I myself attended the knitting club. I was not very good, but I was well trained by the elderly who lived there. It shows something amazing in Norway — when different generations can meet across generations. It can create good integration and not least an exciting and good life for the elderly, which is about more than just health care; it is also about a good life. Differences in power and wealth dramatically increase with this government. Then SV believes it is more important than ever to ensure that our public welfare and our public elderly care are so good that no one should have to buy out other services. So to some of the challenges. In December 2014, the report ‘Human Rights in Norwegian Hospitals’ came. It showed gross care failure, violence and assault on the elderly. Among other things, we could read: ‘The Norwegian legislation contains comprehensive regulations aimed at preventing abuse and at ensuring good and sound health services. However, a large amount of research, supervision and reports show that the law is not being followed in practice. As a result, hospital residents are subjected to illegal coercion, abuse and care failure — including drug abuse. serious violations of fundamental human rights.’;» Every year since this, SV has proposed in Stortinget to raise the human rights situation in the care of the elderly, but we have been voted down by the Right and the Advance Party every year. However, I am confident that the care of the elderly agrees that something needs to be done – I hope so – because it is not the fault of the employees. It's too few at work. They don't have time to take care of themselves. Two months ago, the report of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress showed that 65 000 of our elderly are exposed to violence — from day to day. Violence is a problem in our society, but it may be extra bad to hear about lonely elderly people who don't have anyone they can do to get help. They can be all alone in the world, friends can be gone, they can lack family, and the perpetrator can be the only close they have. They deserve to be taken in greater seriousness by the Storting than they have now. Many older people struggle with loneliness, and I think we all have to be honest with ourselves and say that those who are in a nursing home today are sicker than ever before they can fit in. Those with home services are often given shorter time, and they are also much healthier than ever. I visited some of those who work at home in Oslo. It's fun to be new and young at Stortinget, but I don't have the skills that employees have, so I've been out learning. They say that they now have many people in the home service who they think need to be in a hospital, but they are denied room because there is no room for them. Now they're saying that there's a lot that's improved in Oslo in recent years, but I think we all have to agree that there are many older people in the whole country who are denied a place in a nursing home even if they should have it. We in SV have some wishes for the care of the elderly that we would like the Minister of Senior Citizens. A lot is good, but we need a lift. Elder care is more important than tax cuts to the millionaires in Norway. The day after the Minister of Older People started work, we promoted three demands, because we want to be a constructive opposition that would like to participate and ensure a majority for the government if they come up with concrete measures that make life better for our elderly. The requirement number one that we asked was that anyone who needs it should have a sick home, and that we should finally end the elderly being forced to live in double rooms against their will. They must be entitled to exclusive rights. Everyone should have the right to close the door behind them and say, "Now I am at home with myself." Also when you are old and need assistance, it has to be. The second requirement is that we in SV want more people to work, and that the older ones will be able to control more of their own time. One problem is that the elderly do not have enough time to get the care and help they need, because the employees have to run faster and faster and keep the stopwatch at hand, the stopwatch care, to meet financial demands. So we have to have more on the job. But we must also, believe SV, have greater freedom of choice in the services – not a false freedom of choice where you can only choose the company logo on the chest, but a freedom of choice where you can actually control the time yourself, where the older one is involved in deciding – what to do together today, you should take a talk over the coffee cup, you should get help to wash a little in the house, you should get the care you want? The elderly must sit in the driver’s seat for their own care. We need more employees in all fixed positions. Claim number three from SV is that we need to investigate the violence, abuses and care failure in the care of the elderly. As I said, most of the elderly have done very well, but there are serious breaches, showing several reports, and despite the fact that SV has raised this time and time again in Stortinget, it has not been taken into account. I hope the Senior Minister will join in supporting the SV's three demands, because we are ready to cooperate with the Right-wing Party-Left Government as long as there are concrete measures for the elderly. I want to add one last thing, and that's that for SV, age should not be treated; it should be lived. We talk a lot about providing good care and health care, but being old is also about living life. I myself was very disappointed when the government to save money chose to cut the cultural spaser stick. It's not a big health measure, it's not necessary to survive, but to enjoy music, theatre, dance – it's part of life. In the State budget, SV proposed strengthening cooperation with competent non-governmental organisations, for example: The Norwegian Tourist Association and the Red Cross, that they can visit, so that the elderly get someone to talk to, learn – and give of their knowledge and experience. They're a resource. Or that DNT arranges hikes for the elderly, so they can have excitement in life, be out, participate in our nature. Age should be exciting – not because you don't know which stranger you are placed in double rooms at this time, but because you have to have exciting and good cultural activities every day. The government is carrying out many small projects here and there, as a new food project, which is certainly nice in itself, but we want measures that make life better for the elderly in Norway, not test projects where they are used as test rabbits to see what might work in the future. We need action now, today. SV has invited the government council to the Stortinget because we are really curious about what the government will do for the elderly. And as I hope to have made clear in this post: SV is now ready for cooperation as long as there are concrete and good measures that make life better for the elderly – with single rooms and nursing homes for those who need it, with stops in care failure and violence and with more people working in a full, permanent position, where the elderly are in the driver's seat regarding how time is spent. In particular, age should not be treated with culture and fun. I am delighted to hear what the Minister for the Elderly will do for the elderly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e130	First, I want to thank you for the interpellant taking up such an important area. We've already discussed it a little bit, we know each other a little bit about where we're going, but there's a lot that we really agree with. It speaks its own language that older people now have their own ministerial post in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The government is clear that here we have a job to do. As Minister of Older People and Public Health, I want to make sure that as a society we invest more in people’s health – because that is the most important resource we have. At the same time, I want to offer the elderly services in a new way. It's about being prepared to grow older, and we need to create a society where the elderly get to use their resources and meet their needs. An important task for me, therefore, as Minister for Older People and Public Health, is to create a more age-friendly society, where the elderly can live an active life. I will therefore give priority to the work of ensuring good care, which provides security and dignity for the elderly and others who need it. Health and care services must be organised on the basis of the needs of patients and the elderly. The government's ambition is to create the patient's healthcare service. Each user and his/her family shall experience both respect and not least openness in meeting the health and care services. The Solberg administration has done a lot for patients and users who need care. The investment grant to the health care centres of the lucky day has been strengthened. The proportion of those living in double rooms against their own will is reduced. Increased resources have been allocated to development of competences, and attempts at government funding are well under way, to mention something. Furthermore, we have presented Demen plan 2020, and it has been announced a statutory obligation to offer day-time activities to residents with dementia. I'm going to build on this good work. We have a lot of challenges. One of the most important is to ensure the availability of adequate and competent staff in the municipal health and care services, which was also the representative of SV. The increase in the number of elderly and patients and users with complex needs means that there is an increasing demand for higher and, not least, wider expertise in services. With Competence in 2020, the government has taken action to meet these challenges. We have increased the appropriations for basic, continuing and continuing training by about 165 million. kr during this period. For 2018, the total allocation is approximately 355 million. kr for such purposes. Competence level 2020 consists of around 50 actions related to recruitment, competence development and professional development, with a total allocation of about 1.5 billion. kr. We see that challenges remain, which are addressed with the social partners. This applies, inter alia, to: a high proportion of part-time jobs and lack of apprenticeships, on which the representative is present, but also a high level of sick leave and high levels of withdrawal from care services. So here we very much agree that we have a job to do, and we're going to do it together. The government is concerned that older and other users of municipal health and care services should receive the services they need when they need them. They have the right to stay in a nursing home or similar accommodation when they need it. Therefore, the government is concerned that municipalities need to build several lucky day care areas – not just upgrade old ones. Today is as much as 97.6 pst. of all the rooms in the nursing home unit – i.e. almost 98 pst. It's been a desired development. No one should involuntarily live in the same room, and for that reason we will further reduce the proportion of people who are placed on double rooms against their will – until we have managed to get enough exclusiveness to all those who want it. But we also want to ensure that couples who want it should be able to live together when they move to a nursing home or a nursing home. In the attempt to finance the state, this is an important point. That is why we have incorporated this into the municipal regulations on long-term residence in hospitals or similar housing in the four municipalities that form part of one of the models that we have – i.e. model A – in the experiment. That's why it's okay to keep a few double rooms until the need comes, so that the elderly who have to go to a nursing home can actually bring their partner in. Then it's no use that we just have one room and then we have to start with a double room. So I think we have to have the opportunity of both. Therefore, we also need to upgrade the services in the municipalities, so that older people can receive the support and assistance they need in their own homes. Nor should we forget that many of the elderly actually want to stay at home for as long as possible. This is something I'm going to do a lot of work, not least through the new quality reform for the elderly, called Life all my life. There's a reform that I think interpellant is going to hear a lot about this whole spring, and not least when it's going to be dealt with here in the Storting. The government has done a great deal to strengthen the quality and content of the services of the elderly. Through a number of large-scale messages, we have laid the basis for renewing, simplifying and improving health and care services. Together, these messages form the basis for the lifelong work of Life. The starting point for this reform is that the service provision is not always good enough. It has been recognised and seized by the government. Among other things, the Health Authority and the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights have pointed to failure in the service provision. Many users and their relatives experience that the services are fragmented, under-coordinated and under-adapted to the individual, and there is often little connection in this. Many relatives have heavy care tasks for their loved ones, often for a long time, and for many, this burden becomes very difficult and heavy. I am therefore pleased to present a big message before the summer. The reform shall help older people to master their lives and to ensure that they receive good help when the need arises, that relatives can contribute without being worn out, and not least that employees can use their skills in the service. The reform shall strengthen the quality of what is essential to a good life: food and meals, activity and community, health care and the coherence of services. I can promise that we will have a great deal of pressure to carry out this reform, which is so important to many older people and their families. We want more attention to the needs of our elderly, and we want to give them a speaker who can put the elderly care on the agenda. I would therefore like to establish a national representative of elderly people, patients and users. The parental representative shall work to care for the needs, interests and, in particular, legal certainty of the elderly with regard to the specialist health service and the municipal health and care service. Many people present the wave of old age as something that will strike the Norwegian welfare community with force, but several older people also mean new opportunities. Many older people today have better prospects for living active lives than previous generations. Older people are valuable contributors to get rid of. They have a lot to contribute, not least in cooperation with volunteering. The government is concerned that we should prevent where we can, and repair where we have to. We're going to make it possible for individuals to make good choices for their lives and for their own health. Therefore, Norway should be a age-friendly society. People who have lived a long life and who now need help must also have a life of purpose and dignity. The fact that there are two government councils in the Ministry of Health and Welfare gives more political power to this important area. The elderly are to be seen, and they are to be cared for. The interpellant was also in a number of areas that I have not affected so far in this post, among others. violence in close relations, by which the interpellant was engaged. This is an area for which I share the interpellant's concern. As we see from statistics, violence against the elderly is a challenge, and I've already started a work to see how we can meet this challenge, not only in terms of violence in close relationships, but also in institutions and care agencies. Norway is subject to international legislation in this area, and in particular we have alert procedures to take care of the elderly or the user in this area. If this does not work, we need to consider what measures are needed to ensure that there is actually a improvement here. So I'm going to take this particular area further into the work that I'm doing. The inter-pellant was also in some other areas, including this with solitude, but I want to come back to that in my reply afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e181	Here's a lot we agree on. The Council of State started by saying that we have a job to do, and we probably agree on that after four years with this government – there is a lot that needs to be done quickly. Then I have to say that there were many good names for many fine reforms. But reform is not worth so much – what's interesting is what's in the reform. What's going to happen? I am a little disappointed at how thin it was with concrete measures for the elderly. Then I have some direct questions. The council said something nice, that together we have to invest more in health. Then I have a very specific question: does this mean that the older people will now receive more increases in the state budget every year than the government will give in tax cuts to the richest? It's a simple yes/no question. It hasn't been like that in the last four years. Much more money has gone to tax cuts to the richest. Is it now the turn of the elderly? So to the concrete proposals: the National Senior Ombudsman is good. This has been asked several times in four years. Finally, we are getting through, and we are happy about that. But we also have to ask what we can do specifically against violence, something the minister of the elderly said she would come back to. It's often the employees that can help, then we need more employees. But we also have to admit that sometimes it's the employees who practice violence, and then we have to figure out how to stop it. I hope and believe that the Senior Ombudsman can have a role here, especially if we ask older people directly. Don't you dare say, I'm being violent. Someone has to ask and visit. It was said very nicely about single rooms. Yeah, we also have to have double rooms when it's necessary, but we do that not always just by having minimum crew and minimum space. If we have enough room, it's possible to secure both double room and single room. The government boasts that it gives a reduced propensity. But the elderly don't want a discount on losing their privacy. They want to win back their privacy. SV wants and proposes the right-to-hold of individual rooms, and I would like to hear if the Council of State will support this. The council said that she wants better crewing, that better crewing is needed. That's very good. Then I have three concrete challenges to meet. SV wants to legislate for full-time. Part-time is a disease in the health and care sector, and we can start by getting many more people to work just by giving everyone that wants a full job. Then we need a crew standard that determines that there are enough people at work. And last, but not least, SV is now going to come forward with proposals for permanent employees. We know that the manning industry has exploited a lot of people, and that people who are safe at work are doing a better job for the elderly. We are delighted to hear the answer, and especially about this with a life of meaning and dignity. I am disappointed that the government cut the cultural spaser stick and voted against the SV's proposal in the state budget for more tension, and we hope that it will now change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e198	We are responsible for an ageing policy based on today's and tomorrow's older people, that older people live an active life of good health and quality of life and take an active part in society, in the family, in organisations and cultural life. We will also create a more age-friendly society, where older people can use their resources and have a meaningful life in common with others. Therefore, we will help each one to continue living his whole life. This government has made a historic commitment to the places of care of the lucky day. We've increased the state's share of the cost from 35 pst. to 50 pst. in the construction and rehabilitation of care facilities, and this has led to a shift in the construction plans of the municipalities. But that's not enough. In the years to come, we have to be very focused on getting older, and it's therefore important to also build new places, not just upgrade the old ones. The interpellant was now that the elderly do not want a discount. But until we can get more municipalities to build more hospitals, at least we have to make sure that they are not punished with full payment if they have to be in a double room, and I think the interpellant can agree with me. So until we get these individual rooms in place, at least we have to make a plan so that they don't have to pay the same amount, and I hope that the SV and the interpellant can join in. It's also important, as I said, to look at this with solitude. Very often we see that there are many older people around in big houses and apartments and really are physically active, but they don't have networks around them. It is demanding, and not least it is demanding for those who have relatives far away and are not so good at legs that they can get out. They're sitting at their kitchen table, and the only thing they have of joy is maybe looking at the birdboard with meatmeis, it could be that they've lashed a little bit with the buttons on the radio and not getting into the channels that might be the highlight of the day, or it could be that the only highlight is to go to the store and see the person in the safe, which is actually a human being. Therefore, we must not forget all those who are not in the municipal services regularly, and that they are there too, because it must not be that there are institutions and care units that receive the greatest attention. We have to cover all the elderly. We're so different, and we have so different needs. We have to be able to see that, and this government and I are going to see that. So finally this with the home -- moving someone into the institution and from home: a home is more than just a dwelling and a shell. It is the memories that sit in the wall, often the children have been born there, there they have grown up. So it's not just moving.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e209	First, I would like to congratulate the new Council of State on the appointment. So I would like to say to me, who is happy in public health policy, that I see it as having got my own Minister of Public Health, even though the field is age and public health, as a recognition of the importance of public health policy and a recognition of the challenges we face in the years to come. We have several official calculations that we are going to lack doctors, nurses and health professionals in the years to come. It turns out that that time is coming fast. That's why the representative Wilkinson's reminder of it through the interpellation today is very important. But he also reminds us that social services are lacking, and that older people’s competences are rarely used. And this is where I get it. I am here to remind you that getting old is not a disease – sometimes it sounds like it – and that older people should not be treated as sick and weak. Many older people will live their lives without sickness until they get really old, and they don't want to be seen as a sick part of the population. On the contrary, they want to participate. But it's now so that with old age comes an increasing degree of frailty. Some health problems will report, not necessarily as a disease, but as weaknesses and plagues. It is therefore important to build strength into humans, and that no matter where in life we are. In 1986, the World Health Organisation, the WHO, adopted the Ottawa Charter. It is about how health promotion should become an even more important part of what had been an emerging health work until then and as a complement to prevention. One such fact is that the way in which a work was done was not sustainable, and that for the future it would be important to work for better health in the population in ways other than what one did in the present – not with economic motives, but with the motive that everyone should have a better life, with better health. The Ottawa Charter's idea of how to work with health in the future rests on five pillars: ‘Building a healthy health policy — that is to say, placing ‘health’ on the file of the determining bodies in all areas and levels Creating a supportive environment – ‘health promotion creates living and working conditions that are safe, stimulating, satisfactory and pleasant’ Strengthening the local environment’s opportunities for action — ‘Health promotion shall strengthen the community in order to prioritise, decide, plan and implement actions in order to achieve better health’ Developing personal skills – ‘health promotion shall support personal and social development by providing information, health information and knowledge of mastering techniques’ Adapting healthcare – ‘The role of the health sector must increasingly move in a health promotion direction beyond the responsibility for providing clinical and curative services’. Adapting healthcare to such thinking has proved difficult. What the Ottawa Charter clearly says is that in health work, and especially in public health work, one must not only work to treat or prevent disease, but also to build strength into the population. It does so by having a good health promotion work with mental, physical, social and – in recent years also – equality and environmental objectives in all communities. The only way to make it happen is through good work with a high level of user involvement, so that ownership is widened. Good health-promoting work has as a side-effect less disease and pests. Then I want to add to the new Council of State: there is a crowd of people around Norway who are ready to tackle further improving public health work in the country. We've seen that, and it applies both to the elderly and to other people. But of course it also requires some investment financially. Finally, a society that is good for the elderly is usually good for everyone else. I would like us all to be happy to have better public health work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e239	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important matter on the agenda. It is important that we are willing to give priority to what is most important, i.e. the values that we place the most emphasis on – if we put good care of the elderly over the tax havens to the freshest and richest part of the population. That's what SV does. We don't even think that's difficult. I hear the Council of State is talking about some people not being so good at bones when they get older -- we know that -- and most of us are very happy at home, that we have feelings about it, and that very many people want to live at home for as long as possible. It's fine. I think that's also very good for public health. But what we don't know is good for public health is if you stay sitting at the kitchen table. Maybe you've lost the NRK channel on the radio, as the council says, and you don't get out and out of the door, because you live on the third floor without a lift. There are many who do in Norway. Two out of three housing blocks do not have access to a lift. This concerns the oldest blocks, and there are many of the older ones with low income living. They can't afford or retire to buy a new, modern apartment with a lift or a new house on the ground, because they have low incomes. Suffering if they sell the apartment, it will still not be able to finance it. That is why we have had lift subsidies for many years. What has happened to the lift subsidy in recent years is quite alarming. In 2016, the lift premium was 100 million. SEK, in 2017 it was 75 million. kr, and in 2018 it has been reduced to 50 million. kr. So you've halved the lift subsidy over the last two to three years. We've taken this up with the government several times, because it's so important that we get built lifts in those blocks that don't have it. We can look at the municipalities that have used the lift subsidy – there are not very many, but someone has done it. And there's a very clear context -- they need fewer nursing homes and fewer nursing homes than the municipalities that haven't. I think you can imagine that most of the elderly are very happy about it and have better lives, precisely because they can live at home much longer. You can go out and into the door, you can go to the store and hopefully meet someone there. Now it's becoming such automatic boxes in many places, and they're a little bit difficult to talk to. It's nice to meet people – that's it – it's healthy for all of us, because loneliness is also a problem. Investing more in the lift subsidy is perhaps one of the simplest and cheapest things we can do for good public health work and to provide good care for the elderly who can manage well, only they get help to get up and down that stairs, and perhaps to bring in the shopping bags as well. The number of people aged over 80 will triple until 2060. I guess both the president and I might be out of time, but we're both probably part of the old wave. Most of us want to be people, we want to live at home, and we need to make sure that the homes we have in Norway – most of the homes we will live in the future – are built – suitable for people in different situations of life. We used to talk a lot about life-cycle homes. We've stopped talking about that now. The government has even changed the technical requirements for dwellings, so that there is no room to swing a wheelchair on the bathroom in the smallest dwellings any longer, homes that might be suitable if you are lonely older and do not want to have very many square meters to dry the dust off. We need to ensure that our housing policy takes into account that you should be able to stay in your home for as long as possible and not move because you do not get out and out of the house. Here the government has a lot to do, and here it's easy for the government to do a lot that allows many more elderly people to live at home, and that fewer people need to move to a nursing home or into a nursing home before they want to sail. I challenge the Minister to join in a bet on a grant for a lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e256	It's an important interpellant that the interpellant picks up. Elder care is incredibly important. I think it's important to point out that for most people it's fortunate that you have a good old age. You are healthy and fast and therefore have little challenges. It's amazing, and it's great that we live longer. That's a sign that we're doing very well, and we have to pay attention to that. It is also important to show in this debate that, fortunately, most people are very good at much of their age. For the Progress Party, it is a safe and dignified care for the elderly, with the freedom and the ability to choose for yourself. And that's what's so sad: the interpellant is deep towards how private can be at all, and that you can join in and choose where to get help. It was a bit funny that he went forward the fight Care+, which is driven by ideal or non-public – or maybe a bit of private, if you want to drag that term a little long, often when this representative pulls out the terrible – or Care+ on the North Beach, which I have visited, as the private Aleris runs. Those who live there are very satisfied, and welfare technology is really being used. Those who live there use it, while many other places in the municipality haven't used it because you haven't used resources to get it done. So there are great opportunities, and it shows that diversity is great in the care of the elderly as well. I think it is funny that the representative is busy with the exclusive. This has been the focus of the Progress Party for many years. Then it is a pity that the representative's party in this city is laying down sick homes, taking out sick homes, or, in another municipality, arguing strongly against making double rooms into single rooms, as one has done in More and Romesdal, in municipalities where SV is strongly opposed to it, or that one does not like the reimbursement of those who have to live in double rooms against their will, because the municipality loses money. There is SV policy in the municipalities, and it is far from what the representative here is trying to pretend to be SV's policy. But it may not be so strange – the memory of the representative from SV must be short. I think it is good that he says that he is busy doing something against violence and assault. But I dare remind you that when SV joined the government, the headline in NRK was: No to senior police. SV did not want those who were going to work with the elderly at the hospital and in the home service to have a police record. Luckily, when the Advance Party and the Right joined the government, and there was a majority in Stortinget, SV realized that this was a stupid proposal and voted with the government parties. I think, with respect to reporting, that the representative also has to deal a little bit with what his party has done in this room. When you are tall and dark and you say you want more exclusive spaces, I dare remind you that in four years, when SV sat in government together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, you were able to put off less than 5 billion. to build new nursing homes and homes and to rehabilitate. This amount has more than tripled over the last four years. Only last year this government granted more money than the red-green managed to put off in four years. This shows that this government is counting on everyone who needs it to have safe, dignified and good care for the elderly. We're going to make sure that we get enough space. Then it's sad that the majority in Stortinget recently made sure that you won't get as many new places as you could if you had supported the government's suggestion that the money should be angled to build new places. I think it is an important interpellation, but I believe that the interpellant should go back and look at its own history, because it is not very credible – SV has not been concerned with care for the elderly. It is nice that SV is now concerned with care for the elderly, but then I hope that the SV representative will also go back to his own in this city and elsewhere in the country where SV operates politics and fights against exactly what the representative has preached here. The party is concerned that we should build more hospitals. We suggest in local government that double rooms should be converted into single rooms, precisely because we need more places to meet the growth in the number that needs. But we must not forget that very many older people are fortunately a huge resource, have very good and do not need these services – but those who need it must get the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e277	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for putting an important and exciting debate on the agenda – and thank you to the Council of State, which has shared some of the thoughts about this area in the future. For the Workers' Party, it is important that older people are the boss of their own lives. What the elderly tell us is that they want to stay at home as far as possible. That means that the big task for us in the next few years is to strengthen the lower steps of the care ladder. Municipal health and care services are going through quite major changes to meet the needs of the coming years. We need to have capacity and competence for twice as many older people in municipalities in 2040 – so there are more elderly and older people who want to live at home. This requires systematic and long-term planning and requires predictable framework conditions for municipalities. As I was talking about when we debated this topic Tuesday: the municipalities plan longer than for the next municipal elections and next big shots. Municipalities are planning until 2040 and 2060, because this takes time to plan. There are huge promises and large investments to be made by municipalities. The municipalities tell us that it is very important that the investment grant for nursing homes can be used for both new buildings and upgrades. The working party will not be involved in a development where some may live in new and modern nursing homes, while others will have to live in worn-out and inappropriate living rooms. The government should be commended for increasing the pot – it was also the representative of Hoksrud inside – but they do when they say that it is only new buildings that will benefit from this pot. We are pleased that on Tuesday in Stortinget we received a majority to continue the grant to both upgrade and new construction in the future. The figures we got presented from the Council of State in that matter were that 58 pst. goes to new building and 42 pst. Goes to upgrade. In my opinion, there is a good indicator that this grant actually works quite well. Another thing that we got a majority for Tuesday was to increase the grant to day activities places for people with dementia from 30 p.m. to 50 pst., an important and accurate measure to build the lower steps on the care ladder, we believe, and not least a valuable offer both to those affected by dementia and to their relatives. This may contribute to postponing the need for hospitalisation. We all live in municipalities, and it's out in the municipalities that we're going to do the big tasks of the old age policy in the years to come. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister: what tools will municipalities be able to access in the years to come, through the «lifelong life» reform? It doesn't agree with words and problem descriptions. Municipalities need the tools, grants and policies they need to do these major tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e292	Thanks to the interpellant, which has produced a very interesting interpellant. We have a new government and a new minister of the elderly, and we have several people who have wondered what is actually the constitutional responsibility of the new minister of the elderly in the government. I have asked a written question about this, and there has been an answer that the Minister of Senior Care is responsible for the Department of Care in the Municipal Health Services department, i.e. hospitals, nursing homes, home care and practical assistance, and health services in the hospital. Furthermore, it is said that there will be a royal resolution on responsibility. As I understand the senior minister's responsibility in the government, the senior minister is responsible for care and not for health services. It is very good that we get one who can take care of it, but what I want to spend a lot of time on today is that health care for the elderly is an important part of the overall supply for the elderly, and of course it is an integral part of the elderly policy. I want to raw out, if there's a gulf in this political work, that one does such a division. It has been said here in the debate that getting older is not a disease. It's very important to highlight. Many older people in Norway have a very good health, and of course – as many have said – everyone will stay home for as long as possible. We're going to make it happen, but that's how the welfare state treats the fragile elderly, those who are more than 80 years old, who have a lot of diseases, and who are totally dependent on the community, state, relatives and volunteers to make sure that they are able to have a decent life at all, which is important, and which is the salmon test of whether we have a good old age policy or not. As I said, I am concerned that one forgets the needs of older people for health services. It is a reform called ‘Life All Life’, which will focus on content, food and activity, and there is a great need for it. But we know that we have a health minister who is responsible for hospitals. They also have a lot to say about how to care for the elderly. We know that the consumption of health services is increasing with age. A 70-year-old has about twice as much consumption as a 40-year-old, and the older a host, the more need increases. When we dealt with the National Health and Hospital Plan, the government itself wrote that there will be a strong need for more beds in hospitals in the next few years. These include: Because we're getting older. Even if we get a twist to outpatient clinic because the increase in the number of older people gets so high, there will still be a need for an increase in bedtime as well. In the Sickness Plan, the government writes that for groups over 65 years, it has been estimated that the need for daily and daily treatment will increase by approx. 60 pst. towards 2030. There is therefore a great need for increased bed capacity in hospitals if we are to have good care for the elderly. But what happens? Well, across the country, the opposite is true: the sleeping capacity in Norwegian hospitals is being built up. Norwegian hospitals are already among the shortest in the OECD – only Turkey and Israel have shorter laytime than us. We have received national audit reports that tell of an enormous increase in the number of reindeer investments. And in four years, over 300,000 daily treatments have been cut in Norwegian hospitals, half of which apply to older people over 80 years of age. I have one piece of advice for the new Minister of the Elderly: the Council of State has to talk to the Minister of Health, and one has to make sure that Norwegian hospitals stop building up their daily capacity – unless there is a bad care for the elderly, because the elderly need to be admitted, as well as good services in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e311	I take the floor first of all to welcome the Minister of the Elderly in the Grand Chamber. It's high time we got an elder minister. It's high time we got a public health ministration, and it's great that we get this interpellation that gives the Secretary of State an opportunity to step out the course for the years to come. Then I register – and here it should be stated “suck” in the record from this post – that the gallery is empty, the hall is empty, and there is no one in the press shed. That, I think, is a major problem in the elderly in the years to come, that there is not enough focus on this. I like it, as I said, that the representative Wilkinson is addressing this, but I must say that I think the representative is ruining his good performance by immediately starting to debate fiscal policy. It's not that the government distributes, as it's called, in tax dollars to the wealthiest in society, is part of a zero-sum game, where you can take it away and immediately get more money for the care of the elderly. It's not like that. Values need to be created in this society in order to be able to afford a better ageing policy. That's it. It was the focus of social liberalism to the Left in the 1920s, and it is still. I want to say that on the first occasion, I think maybe the Minister of the Elderly and I should take a talk, because I discovered another side of the elderly policy that I think deserves attention. It's simply about learning to get older. We have an education offer in this country that is linked to higher education institutions. It's a folk high school in Westfold, which is my district, and then it's one in North Norway. Nestor in Westfold has some problems because it is cut in short courses at the national colleges, and this leads to this folk high school, which is mostly working with older politics, older people's knowledge, having some bad conditions for the time being, because it's a deliberate policy to cut short courses and rather make long-term courses at the national colleges. It is the Left's proposal to move this into a separate sector, so that higher education institutions for the elderly become a better and more regular offer. I look forward to the conversation with the Minister of Older People about this, where I am absolutely sure that we will find a agreed solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e321	Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway. Then we need to give priority to public care for the elderly, where everyone can get the help they need. I am very pleased with the positive response from the Council of State, which opens up cooperation with SV on important ageing policies. I have to answer briefly the two in the debate that have chosen not to cooperate, but rather to create conflict. Bård Hoksrud from the Progress Party spent all his time talking about SV's policy instead of the Progress Party's policy. He particularly pulled out Oslo. Then I have to say that it is correct that Oslo is now giving priority to money away from hospitals and for domestic services. It's because there's sick homes empty in Oslo. Then it's quite wise to hire more competent people in the home services, so that more people can get the help they need when they're home. It was said by Grimstad that tax cuts were important to the richest – yes, the richest was left’s own word – it’s good they can now admit who gets the tax cuts. Then we can see what worked best. When the red-green fell and the finance minister was from SV, there were more jobs, lower unemployment and greater growth in the economy. With this government, the government deficit has increased by 100 billion. kr. However, they have not been able to improve care for the elderly. Oslo is not perfect, but an exhibition window we in SV are very proud of, where there are now several people who are satisfied with their services. When asked about the elderly, more are satisfied with their services now than when the Progress Party ran. That's a good sign. I repeat that I am pleased with the Council's answer, but I will again ask an important question, which the Council of State did not answer. The Council of State said that she agreed with SV that we need to prioritise the elderly better. Then I ask again: is it true that the elderly in the budgets ahead will get more money than the richest get in tax cuts? Money's talking. Where do we give priority? Every year SV will give more priority to care for the elderly than to tax cuts for the richest. It's a simple yes/no question. Will the Minister of the Progressive Party finally give priority to older people more than the richest? In recent years SV has proposed many things that have unfortunately been voted down by the Right and the Advance Party. We have proposed to identify the human rights situation. We have proposed to secure single rooms. We have proposed to ensure more staff and staff standards. We have proposed to secure lift support, so that people can live at home. We've suggested the cultural spaser stick, which the right-hand side sucks. We have proposed to support walking groups, non-profit organisations and Norwegian tourist associations for stress, cohesion and social life for the elderly. All this has been voted down by the Right and the Advance Party. But I now see that the new senior minister wants something different. That's good. We in SV are ready for cooperation. We have three main wishes, which we would like to join you on: secure single rooms and enough sick homes, stop care failure and violence, and get more people to work. And not least – my little heartchild is that old age should not be treated, it should be lived. It should be exciting, not because you're wondering who you're coming to room with, but because you're getting an exciting cultural offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e338	Now we've been into a lot of issues, and that's good, because that means that this sector has a lot to deal with that can be very good. I want to get into this first with the state experiment. The State must take greater responsibility for ensuring a good quality offer. That is precisely what we are doing through this attempt to fund state care services. We see that the employees of the experimental communities feel that they are getting more competence, that they understand the needs of the users better, that the situation is better, and that they work better closely within the municipalities. The important thing for us is to give a good offer to the elderly, and why do I get into this trial scheme? Yes, because I know that the interpellant and interpellant party colleagues have seen a little bit of Copenhagen when it comes to different things. Then one should also be aware that in Copenhagen, and in Denmark in general, there is freedom of choice – and not least freedom of choice in the care of the elderly. Something has been done that is in line with the attempt we are now making with state funding. In Denmark, in Copenhagen, there are, among other things: profiling homes that cater for the diversity of the elderly, the needs they have. You have a profiling home where older people who may have lived many years with an animal can go to a nursing home where they are allowed to take their animal. I hope that the interpellant and SV and other parties will be involved in looking at freedom of choice as something important. I also feel that the representative Wilkinson will answer questions about amounts in the future. I am sorry that the representative is quite new here, but I will only be able to make figures and other proposals in the budget every year. So this will not be answered today by Mr Wilkinson. I have to remind you that there is a big difference between privatisation and outsourcing. I feel that the interpellant mixes this as a sauce. Privatisation does not pay the public for. In the case of outsourcing, it is still the public that pays, so it is not this illustrious thick wallet that would make a difference, as is pointed out here. What we want first is to look at the competitive outsourcing. The most important thing is that the elderly receive a service that is good. I want to connect different generations, like they do in the Horten municipality, where they have students who can live cheaply on their quarters with them in the nursing home. That's what we have to do. We have to get rid of the solitude and connect the generations. I hope that when the ‘lifelong’ reform comes – it is a reform that has started in the municipalities, it has started across politics out there – all the representatives in this room can be involved in making a good product for the benefit of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e353	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-15.ana.ud128e367	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled, and we all want a good skiing day.
